####2B (film)####
Set in the near future, "2B" portrays a familiar decaying world on the cusp of "great transformation and awesome wonders". The story is based upon real science and evolving technologies. When the world's first transhuman is created by a renegade corporate CEO and bioscientist, the foundations of society's beliefs are threatened in a transhuman world where man merges with technology.

####7 Splinters in Time####
A detective investigates a murder, only to find that the victim is himself. Soon, he discovers multiple versions of himself, not all of them friendly.

Darius Lefaux is a gumshoe detective. His career is in shambles, his romantic life is comically void, and his only real human connection a cantankerous old woman who lives next door. One day a murder comes in, and Darius is summoned to view the body. But there’s something very strange about this one. The body is ... him. The body is identical to Darius's.

Memories begin to haunt Darius, fragments of events that don't make sense. As the plot thickens, more duplicates of Darius emerge. One version is trying to kill him. In a race against the clock, Darius sets out to find this other self before it finds him.

Meanwhile, John Luka—an old ally of Darius and an eccentric, out-of-work juggler—learns that his friend may be in trouble. We learn that Luka was involved in a time travel experiment run amok, left scarred and destitute by the ordeal. Re-invigorated by the chance to help his friend, he sets out in search of Fyodor Wax, the father of the experiment, hoping Fyodor will lead him to his "brother Darius" before it’s too late.

As Darius chips away at the case of his multiple selves, he is reunited with Alise, a beautiful woman from his past. A long-buried, yet troubled, romance is reignited. More memories surface—from a life they once had together, a life interrupted by an accident on a desert road ten years ago. When Luka finds Darius, the two men learn more about their shrouded past and the scientific experiment that links their existence, and it's suddenly clear what has to be done.

Darius and Luka journey to a secret site called "Omphalos," where they hope to put a stop to the disastrous experiment that may be at the root of their troubles. But the road to "Omphalos" isn't quite as it seems. The journey outward becomes a journey inward.

####12 Monkeys####
####12 to the Moon####
Earth's International Space Order prepares for its first astronaut landing on the Moon, with the goal of claiming it as "international territory." The crew of Lunar Eagle 1 comprises 12 people from around the world, 10 men and two women, all scientists with different specialties, accompanied by a small menagerie, including two cats. The spaceship is commanded by American John Anderson.

Historical and international tensions flare up during the flight. Russian Feodor Orloff struts about, annoyingly claiming that all scientific advancements were invented by the Soviets. Israeli David Ruskin warns Feodor that the USSR would be unwise to attempt to dominate Israel, as it has done to his native Poland. David admires fellow astronaut Erich Heinrich, unaware that Erich's father was the Nazi responsible for murdering David's family during the Holocaust.

After a dangerous 27-hour flight, Lunar Eagle 1 lands and the crew begin their exploration of the Moon. Sigrid Bomark and Selim Hamid find an air-filled cave and, after shedding their space helmets, they kiss passionately. As they walk hand-in-hand deeper into the cave, its opening is suddenly sealed by impenetrable ice.

The others discover gold and minerals, but when they fire a mortar into a rock formation, liquid begins bubbling out. An excited Feodor rushes over and sticks his hands into the flow, and he is badly burned. On the way back to their spaceship, a crew member sinks to his death in lunar quicksand. John tries unsuccessfully to save him and is almost pulled under.

Inside Lunar Eagle 1, a machine begins printing hieroglyphics. Surprisingly, Hideko Murata can read them. It is a message from "The Great Coordinator of the Moon," who orders the crew to leave at once. The message also states that the emotionless Moon-beings live underground and fear that the Earthlings will "contaminate our perfect form of harmony." Sigrid and Salim are being studied because the Moon-beings are unfamiliar with "love." They and "all your kind" will be destroyed "if love turns to evil." The Moon-beings also demand that the expedition's cats, brought as an experiment to see if they could procreate on the Moon, be left behind. They find the cats as interesting as people.

Erich has a heart attack during Lunar Eagle 1's blastoff. As he babbles on half-conscious, David learns that Erich's father was the Nazi who killed David's family. However, when David learns that Erich has disowned his family and devoted his life to trying to make amends for his father's crimes, they become friends.

Near Earth, the crew witnesses "the big freeze," a gigantic freezing cloud controlled from the Moon, which encases all of Canada, the U.S. and Mexico in thick ice.

John drops "atomic bomblets" into the volcano Popocatepetl to trigger a huge eruption to thaw out North America. Etienne Martel sabotages the bomblets, revealing himself to be a French communist. He incorrectly assumes that Feodor would also want to keep America frozen in order to advance international communism's quest for world domination. He and Etienne fight, Feodor calls to John for help and when Etienne unfairly pulls out a knife, John knocks the weapon out of his hand while knocking him down. Feodor repairs the bomblets.

Erich and David fly a suicide mission to drop the bomblets from their spaceship's smaller space taxi. Popocatepetl erupts and North America begins to thaw. Another message from the Moon says that the Moon-beings now realize that Earthlings are honorable and peaceful, and that the North Americans were put into suspended animation before the big freeze, so no one has been harmed. Moreover, Earthlings will be welcomed to the Moon whenever they return.

Following the great thaw, Lunar Eagle 1's triumphant crew prepare to land.

####15 till Midnight####
Lukas Reyes is trapped in a seemingly endless loop between parallel existences, one being occupied by his spouse, Sera, and another being occupied by a relation from another life, Nara. As worlds seem to begin colliding and further bleeding into one another, he finds himself pursued by a group of shadow-men known as "The Knowers". The common thread between everything being a significance with the time 11:45 - fifteen minutes until midnight.

####The 27th Day####
Englishwoman Evelyn Wingate, American reporter Jonathan Clark, Chinese peasant Su Tan, German physicist Klaus Bechner, and Soviet soldier Ivan Godofsky are randomly transported to an alien spacecraft in Earth orbit. There, they are met by a humanoid referring to himself only as "The Alien", who explains that he is the representative of a world orbiting a sun about to go nova. Needing a new world to inhabit within the next 35 days, yet prohibited by their moral code from killing intelligent life, The Alien provides each of the five with sets of three capsules in a clear, round, hand-held case. Each set is capable of destroying all human life within a 3,000-mile diameter; their expectation is that humanity will use "all" the capsules, obliterating itself, leaving the Earth for the aliens to populate. The capsules' containers can only be opened by the thought waves of the person to whom they were given. Once out in the open, they can be used by anyone, but "only" during the next 27 days, after which the capsules become inert. The Alien states that if humanity does not destroy itself, the Aliens cannot invade and will perish. He also explains that if one or more of the five die, their capsules will self-destruct and become harmless.

Returned to Earth, Eve throws her case into the English Channel and books a flight to Los Angeles. Su Tan chooses to commit suicide, and her capsules self-destruct. The others go about their business when the Alien commandeers all Earth's communications and reveals to the world the existence and power of the capsules. Overhearing the broadcast, Bechner is hit by a car while crossing the street and is taken to the hospital, while Pvt. Godofsky is detained by his superiors. Arriving in Los Angeles, Eve is met by a now-disguised Clark, who takes her to a closed race track where they can safely hide. Godofsky is interviewed by a Soviet general who, dissatisfied with his vague story, orders him subjected to intense interrogation.

Panic over the Alien's broadcast grows in the days that follow. Repeated beatings leave Godofsky in shock, while a recovering Bechner refuses to reveal the details of the Alien's plan. After two Communist agents nearly succeed in killing Bechner, and an innocent man who looked like Clark is killed by a mob, Clark and Eve reveal themselves and are taken into government custody.

Through the application of sodium pentothal to Godofsky, the Soviets discover the Alien's plan and gain access to his capsules. Their resulting announcement fuels global anxiety, prompting the other three remaining to cooperate with authorities. Confronted with an ultimatum for all U.S. military forces to withdraw throughout the world, one of Bechner's capsules is tested to verify the Soviet threat. A dying volunteer is left on a raft in the ocean, just within the 3,000 mile limit, while the U.S. Navy destroyer that delivered him sits safely outside that limit. Aboard, an emotionally wrought Bechner has to be convinced to open his case, but he is unable to use the capsules. The Admiral takes them and reads the coordinates out loud; the subject is instantly vaporized. Now convinced of the capsules' power, the U.S. military begins withdrawing its forces worldwide in compliance with the Soviet blackmail.

Aboard ship, Bechner, Clark, and Eve discuss that the Soviets must use the capsules at the last minute to avoid retaliation. Determined to find a way to counter this, Bechner studies the remaining capsules and discovers an imprinted mathematical code. As the Soviet general prepares to use the capsules, Godofsky rushes him and knocks them from the general's hands; they fall to the ground two stories below. At the very same instant, Bechner launches the capsules. He later explains that the hidden code is programmed for both "life and death". The entire Earth is blanketed with a high-pitched sonic wave from space that selectively kills every "known enemy of human freedom".

Later, humanity, unified under the United Nations, extends an invitation to the Alien and his race to coexist with us peacefully on Earth. The preceding events had secretly been a test of humanity's character, a way for the Alien to judge mankind's true nature. The Alien accepts the offer, and a new day like no other dawns for humanity.

####65 (film)####
A long time ago before mankind's history, on the distant technologically advanced planet Somaris, pilot Mills convinces his wife Alya that he should take on a two-year space expedition to earn money needed to treat their daughter Nevine's illness. However, on the journey back to Somaris, his spaceship, the "Zoic", is hit by a mass of asteroids and crash-lands on an uncharted planet. With his ship damaged and split in half, he finds that his passengers have been killed and contemplates suicide until he finds a lone survivor, a young girl named Koa. Mills decides to take care of Koa. However, the two have difficulty communicating due to differing languages and a broken translator. The unknown planet is then revealed to be Earth 65 million years ago during the Cretaceous period.

Mills later discovers that the other half of the "Zoic" contains a functioning escape shuttle and sends a distress beacon for rescue. Mills tells Koa that they're going to the mountain where the shuttle is located, although he lies about her parents being alive to encourage her to go with him. As they traverse the planet, they bond, while Mills protects Koa from dinosaurs.

As they spend the night near a cave opening, Koa watches several video messages sent by Nevine. The two are attacked by a giant Fasolasuchus, which they wound before hiding in the cave. After a rockfall separates them, Mills is attacked by a cave-dwelling dinosaur and Koa is attacked by a raptor-like creature which she traps in a fallen tree log and uses bombs Mills had given to her earlier in the cave before they were separated, to blow up the trapped dinosaur. Mills kills the cave-dwelling creature and escapes the cave only to run through the forest searching for Koa. As he is running through the forest he falls into quicksand and begins yelling for Koa. As he sinks into the quicksand, Koa reaches him and helps him to escape, and they happily reunite. Upon checking his guide Mills also discovers that a massive asteroid, whose debris caused their ship to crash, will strike Earth in less than 12 hours, triggering a catastrophic extinction event.

The two reach the "Zoic", but Koa is angry when she discovers that Mills lied to her. Mills opens up to Koa about losing Nevine, who had died of her illness while Mills was away, and promises to protect her. Upon learning rescue is on the way, the two board the escape shuttle, but the asteroid's debris causes it to fall down the mountain. Mills and Koa manage to fend off two large "Tyrannosaurus rex", but the same Fasolasuchus that they injured earlier starts attacking them before they manage to kill it with a geyser blast. The two quickly return to the ship and blast off towards rescue as the asteroid collides with Earth, wiping out 70% of all life on the planet.

During the credits, it shows the aftermath of the extinction thus moving forward, showing the world's evolution.

####2012: Supernova####
####Acidman (film)####
####Adventures in Dinosaur City####
Three teenage friends, named Timmy, Mick, and Jamie, enjoy watching an animated TV series called "Dino Saurs", which features anthropomorphic dinosaurs and cavepeople. Wanting to watch a VHS tape of the cartoon on a better screen, Timmy, the youngest of the three, suggests that they try watching it on the big TV screen in his parents' laboratory. However, this screen is part of an experimental device designed to open a portal to another dimension. After they put the videotape into the device and turn it on, a vortex sucks the three into the screen, and into the universe in which the show takes place.

They find that they are in a building in Saur City and come across Forry, a "Rhamphorhynchus" who lost his ability to fly. Shortly afterward, a group of cavepeople called the Rockies enter the building. They work for an "Allosaurus" named Mr. Big, a dictator who oppresses the residents of Saur City. The Rockies steal a fuse that is part of a cooling system for lava tanks. Without the fuse, the tanks will melt and the lava will destroy Saur City. Additionally, the kids think that they need the fuse in order to reopen the portal to their world and return home.

Although reluctant, Forry's knowledge of his world proves useful as he guides the three through a dinosaur graveyard and onward to Tar Town. Once there, they enter a bar and find a "Tyrannosaurus" named Rex and a "Protoceratops" named Tops. The kids expect them to help, since they are the main heroes of the cartoon show. Initially refusing to help, the two change their minds after the kids help them fight off the Rockies.

The group goes to Saur City and rests at Forry's tree house. Timmy talks to Rex about the possibility that all fictional stories really do happen in other worlds, and hints that he does not want to return to his world because it is boring. Meanwhile, romantic feelings develop between Mick and Jamie. Rex takes Timmy to a nearby island, and reveals that his father is considered a traitor who surrendered Saur City to Mr. Big. When the two return to the tree house, the group is attacked by the Rockies. During the battle, Timmy discovers that he can pause and rewind the Rockies by using the remote control that he brought with him from his parents' lab. Mr. Big witnesses this and orders the Rockies to get him the remote. The Rockies capture Timmy and take the remote. They then go to Mr. Big's tower.

Mick, Jamie, Rex, Tops, and Forry sneak into the tower's dungeon. They find Rex's imprisoned father, who reveals that Mr. Big used a mind-controlling potion to force him to surrender Saur City. The group sets the prisoners free, and Rex confronts Mr. Big as he is interrogating Timmy. During the ensuing battle, Mick and Tops rescue Timmy, and the group recovers the remote. Rex fights and nearly defeats Mr. Big, but Mr. Big grabs a sword. Just then, Timmy zaps Mr. Big with the remote, making him disappear.

The group begin to leave the tower by using the elevator, which relies on the fuse for power. Therefore, Forry stays behind until the others have left and then manages to fly the fuse out. Rex's father sacrifices himself to destroy the tower. The group go to the building containing the lava tanks and reattach the fuse. Timmy uses the remote to reopen the portal. Despite Timmy's reluctance to go, the kids return to their universe right before Timmy's parents return home from a scientific conference. The kids bring Timmy's parents into the lab to show them what happened, and then there is the sound of the device activating.

####After Darkness (2019 film)####
As the sun burns out and darkness shrouds the planet, the wealthy Beaty familysndwaiting for a pre-arranged rescue from their country estatesndmust reckon with long-held grudges and heal painful memories from the past.

Strict father Raymond, always mentally abusive to his wife and kids, becomes more so as he does not get a return call from the Senator who had promised to evacuate the Beaty family to a secure facility in caves.

Wife Georgina needs a steady supply of pills to deal with the mental break caused by the suicide of teenaged daughter Abbey five years earlier. Eldest child Raymond Jr. (Ray) left after his sister died, telling everyone that her suicide was due to their father. Second child Fred arrives with an unexpected (the family does not communicate much) girlfriend, Margot, who is nine months pregnant. Youngest child  Clara, the only one still living at home, turns 15 a few days after the others arrive. Naively, she is the most hopeful of them all.

Raymond treats the family harshly, accusing Margot of being a gold digger wanting to be saved, constantly telling Georgina that she is responsible for Abbey’s death, and chasing off Brian, Ray’s boyfriend, when he shows up to spend his expected final days with the man he loves.

The world is plunged into constant night. Margot gives birth the same “day” that the senator finally calls, confirming that the cave plan was unsuccessful. Raymond tells the family that their evacuation is imminent, but Ray has overheard the phone call. While the others pack and Georgina prepares a meal, Ray gathers the same type of berry that Abbey ate to painlessly poison herself. He wordlessly takes them to his mother, who understands the truth and cooks them into the meal.

Before the family can eat, two armed men enter the house, demanding supplies. After Clara mentions the caves, and Raymond reveals that they do not exist, the family loses all hope. Raymond kills one intruder and the other gives up and leaves. Margot leaves with the baby, hoping to get back to her own family before the end of life on Earth.

The Beatys huddle together against the cold, all dozing off. In the morning, they are awakened by the Sun shining through the window. It is implied that, having given up all hope the family ate the berries off-screen and are now in some form of afterlife having discussed what their death would be like shortly before they fall asleep.

The Beatys leave the house together, finally united as a family, removing their heavy jackets to enjoy the warmth of the Sun.

####Air Hawks####
Pilot Barry Eldon (Ralph Bellamy) is the owner of Independent Transcontinental Lines whose airline is in direct competition with Martin Drewen (Robert Middlemass), owner of Consolidated Airlines. With Renee Dupont (Tala Birell), a singer at a nightclub owned by Victor Arnold (Douglas Dumbrille), he believes that his airline's air mail routes will ensure success against his rival.

Arnold decides to ally himself with Drewen who has hired German inventor Shulter (Edward Van Sloan), the inventor of a death ray projector. With this device, they bring down three of Eldon's aircraft. Determined to set a new transcontinental record with Wiley Post flying the racer, Eldon has the help of his girlfriend to eventually expose his rivals and destroy their secret headquarters. A new contract in Washington awaits.

####Alien Cargo####
####The Alien Encounters####

An unemployed astronomer loses his job when a radio telescope is destroyed while he is hearing messages from outer space. He then tracks down a scientist who is building a machine to extend life, only to discover the scientist is dead. He visits with the scientist's wife and son, and discovers about the scientist's own encounter with UFOs. An alien probe which has landed on Earth from Barnard's Star. The machine known as a betatron which has remarkable rejuvenating effects.


####Alien Seed####
####Aliens vs. Avatars####
####Alongside Night (film)####
####The Amazing Colossal Man####
A military site in Desert Rock, Nevada, plans a test explosion of the first atomic plutonium bomb. When it doesn't detonate as expected, Lt. Colonel Glenn Manning receives orders to keep his men in the protective trench. Moments later, an unidentified small civilian aircraft crash-lands near the bomb site, and Glenn runs into the detonation area to rescue the pilot. Once in the detonation area, the bomb goes off, and Glenn gets caught in the radioactive blast.

Surviving the blast but suffering from third-degree burns over almost his whole body, Glenn gets treated by specialist Dr. Paul Linstrom and military scientist Dr. Eric Coulter at the army base hospital. Glenn's fiancée, Carol Forrest, anxiously awaits a prognosis, but Linstrom refrains from telling her that the consensus is that Glenn is extremely unlikely to survive. The following day, however, Linstrom and Coulter are stunned to discover that Glenn's burns have completely healed. That evening, Carol isn't allowed to see him and learns the military moved Glenn to an army rehabilitation and research center in Summit, Nevada. She drives there and gets admitted entry. Upon entering his room, Carol faints in horror as Glenn has mutated into a giant about 16 feet tall.

The next day, Linstrom tells Carol that Glenn's exposure to the plutonium blast caused his old cells to stop dying and his new cells to multiply at an accelerated rate, resulting in his abnormal growth. Linstrom admits that he and Coulter don't know if they can stop it and that if they don't, Glenn will keep growing until he dies. Awakening the day after, Glenn is initially frightened, then greatly disturbed. Carol sees him the following day to comfort him, but Glenn is now roughly 22 feet tall, distant, and depressed. While the public knows he survived the explosion, the military has kept the truth of his condition secret.
File:Baseline Drive-in Ad - 30 August 1957, Highland, CA.jpg|thumb|left|Drive-in advertisement from 1957 for "The Amazing Colossal Man" and co-feature, "Cat Girl".
As Glenn reaches 30 feet tall, Linstrom moves him to a tent large enough to provide shelter and recommends that Carol spend time with him. Despite her encouragement, Glenn is angry and bitter. Linstrom eventually reveals that Glenn's heart is growing at only half the rate of his body, and soon it won't be able to support his enormous size and weight. He warns Carol that Glenn's sanity will decline before his heart finally explodes. That night, Carol tries to console Glenn, but he loses his temper and shouts at Carol to leave him alone.

The following morning, Glenn disappears as Coulter reports to Linstrom that he may have found a solution to Glenn's growth. Led by Colonel Hallock, the military conducts a 10-mile-wide search for the now 50-foot-tall Glenn, but with no results. When Carol asks Linstrom if she can help in their search, he cautions Carol that Glenn may no longer recognize her. Coulter reveals that he has created a special syringe filled with a serum for Glenn's bone marrow that will stop his growth.

Meanwhile, the local news relays that a "giant man" was spotted approaching Las Vegas. As the military heads there, Glenn, now over 60 feet tall and confused, is drawn to the Vegas Strip. He wreaks havoc on various casinos, and after a policeman shoots him, he hurls a palm tree at the formed crowd. When his behavior alarms the police, they begin firing at Glenn, enraging him. He destroys the Pioneer Club's Vegas Vic sign, then heads toward Boulder Dam as army helicopters track his movements.

Linstrom, Carol, and Coulter attempt to intercept Hallock's troops. After landing at the dam, Lindstrom uses a bullhorn to try reasoning with Glenn, who seems to listen. Coulter and Linstrom take the enormous syringe and plunge it into Glenn's ankle. He removes it and angrily spears Coulter with it, killing him. Then Glenn grabs Carol and starts across the dam. Linstrom stops Hallock from attacking prematurely before he and Carol implore Glenn to release her. Though Glenn is disoriented, he complies. Once she's free, Hallock orders his men to open fire, causing Glenn to tumble into the Colorado River to his apparent death.

####American Ninja 2: The Confrontation####
Now US Army Rangers, Joe Armstrong and Curtis Jackson are sent to a remote Caribbean island to aid the Marine Corps in investigating the disappearance of many of its Marines. The commanding officer, "Wild Bill" Woodward briefs them on the situation: four marines were captured, but he doesn't know who or what they are since terrorism is out of the question. A boy named Toto is the only witness when he saw two soldiers get beat up by a gang and then taken by a group of men in black suits. Both men look at each other, realizing that they have been in this situation before.

Upon arriving, Charlie McDonald invites them to go water skiing. Tommy Taylor takes them on their boat to Mangrove Island, but sabotages it by unhooking the motor source. Everyone decides to swim, but Joe becomes suspicious, and wants to stay on shore. Shortly thereafter, he is attacked by ninjas but is rescued by Curtis. Their report back is discarded, nevertheless Woodward gives them a week to investigate. Tommy is told to lure Armstrong into a trap during a phone conversation with the Lion, and tells Joe where to meet him: at the Blind Beggar Bar. Joe is attacked by the same group of thugs from the beginning of the film, and proceeds to get little from Taylor about a drug dealer by the nickname of The Lion before he is killed by ninjas. Joe and Curtis inform Wild Bill, informing him that Taylor revealed a location in which the Lion conducts his experiments: Blackbeard Island. Wild Bill is all for it, but while awaiting for approval, he invites them to the governor's ball. They arrive, and Inspector Singh quickly accuses Armstrong of killing Taylor.

Wild Bill gives Jackson and Armstrong permission to rescue a girl named Alicia Sanborn after she is taken by local thugs after crashing the ball upon seeing that The Lion was there. Jackson and Armstrong (along with Charlie) follow them into the Blind Beggar's Bar and fight the local gang and escape. They pick up Wild Bill from the ball and make up a story about Armstrong disappearing to avoid being questioned by Singh. Armstrong tracks Alicia with the help of Toto, but are attacked by ninjas. He singlehandedly takes them out, before being rescued by a truck-driving Toto. One of the ninjas manages to get on the vehicle, but Armstrong makes both Toto and Alicia jump out of the vehicle before Armstrong himself jumps. The vehicle crashes into gas cans and a building, exploding the truck and killing the ninja. Joe and Alicia head on over to the boats, while Joe gives Toto a message to give to Wild Bill that they are on their way to Blackbeard Island. They have to wait awhile as patrol guards are in the water; they must wait until nighttime to travel. Alicia tells Joe about her father's plans of a scientific breakthrough to cure cancer before Burke (The Lion) bought his lab and had other plans. Jackson and the other marines have to wait on the base for a go-ahead from the ambassador, and that Armstrong is on his own for now.

Joe and Alicia reach the island and infiltrate the lab by donning ninja clothing, all while Burke is introducing his SuperNinja program. They rescue Professor Sanborn, who informs Joe where the captive marines are being held. Joe rescues the captive marines, but are caught trying to escape. All face off against a group of ninjas. Joe and the marines eventually gain the upper hand at first, but the ninjas eventually kill all but 2 of the marines. The marines stage an attack on the base, and reveal that the governor and Inspector Singh are also part of Burke's scheme. The governor is arrested by Wild Bill and his men while Singh's fate is unknown. The Professor confronts Burke and manages to destroy his SuperNinja program with a remote-control bomb, killing them both.

Joe Armstrong does one final battle with Tojo Ken (Burke's jonin, responsible for training the brainwashed marines in ninjitsu) and kills him. The marines leave the island and celebrate, while Jackson and Armstrong say goodbye to their friends as they head back to America.

####Andover (film)####
A genetics professor's wife dies in a fire at her glass blowing studio, but he finds her brush with a few of her hairs in it.  He and his grad student assistant make a clone of her, but there are problems.  He keeps trying with slight changes to her environment.  He becomes so obsessed with trying to make the perfect match that he doesn't realize that his assistant has fallen in love with him.  Also, the life insurance adjuster isn't convinced that she really is dead.

The lab assistant then tries to clone the professor so she can have the person she loves, but he is unresponsive to her overtures.  The professor finally is able to make a clone and have it raised by the girl's original parents.  She is identical to his wife, but she says she doesn't love him.  He returns her to her parents.

Meanwhile, the life insurance adjuster accuses the professor of faking his wife's death, and offers to approve the claim on the condition that the professor gives him the $1,000,000 policy payout.  The professor kills the adjuster, then clones him.  He gets the clone drunk, and calls the police on him.  He gets to keep the payout.

The professor and grad student reconnect and realize that they should be together, but they have to deal with the professor and his former wife's clones.  Sure enough, the clones fall in love, and we know they will be as happy as the professor and his wife were.  And we know the professor and his lab assistant will be happy together too.

####Android (film)####
####The Angry Red Planet####
As the film opens, mission control personnel on Earth are monitoring the rocketship MR-1 ("Mars Rocket 1") as it approaches Earth orbit following the first crewed expedition to Mars. Personnel are surprised to see the ship on their monitors, for they believed that the vehicle had become lost or destroyed in space. Ground technicians are unable, though, to make contact with anyone on MR-1, so they guide the rocket by remote control to a safe Earth landing. Only two survivors of the original four-person crew are found in the ship: Dr. Iris Ryan (Naura Hayden) and Col. Tom O'Bannion (Gerald Mohr), whose entire right arm is covered with a strange green alien growth. The MR-1's mission to Mars is then recounted by Dr. Ryan as she also helps to find a cure for Col. O'Bannion's badly infected arm. In her debriefing, she reports in detail the crew's experiences while traveling to the Red Planet and exploring its surface. She describes their expedition in retrospect, as if it were currently happening.

After MR-1 reaches Mars and its crew explores the planet's surface, Dr. Ryan is attacked by a carnivorous plant, which Chief Warrant Officer Jacobs kills with his freeze-ray, which he calls "Cleo". The crew then encounters an immense bat-rat-spider-crab creature, at first mistaking its legs for trees. That creature is also blinded and repelled by Jacobs who, again, uses his ray gun. When the crew returns to their ship, they realize that their radio signals are being blocked and the MR-1 is unable to leave Mars due to a mysterious force field.

O'Bannion next leads the crew to a Martian lake, where a city with high, impressive structures is visible on the other side, far in the distance. Crossing the water in an inflatable raft, they are stopped by a giant amoeba-like creature with a single spinning eye. They hurriedly retreat, the creature pursuing them. As they are entering their ship, the creature catches Jacobs and draws him inside the gelatinous body, soon absorbing him; it has also infected O'Bannion's arm. The creature envelops the ship and is expected to eventually develop acids to eat through it.

O'Bannion leads them in rewiring the ship to electrify the outer hull, which drives the creature away after destroying parts of it, then they rewire the ship for lift-off. The three survivors manage to lift MR-1 off from the planet since the force field has somehow been deactivated. Unfortunately, Professor Gettell, the MR-1's designer, dies of an apparent heart attack caused by the extreme stresses of the ascent.

Once the MR-1 returns to Earth, O'Bannion's infected arm is cured by medical staff using electric shocks. Mission control technicians also examine the MR-1's data recorders from the expedition and find a recording of an alien voice, which announces that the ship's crew were allowed to leave Mars so that they could deliver a message to their home planet. The voice then states that "we of Mars" have been observing human development on Earth for many thousands of years and have determined that humanity's technology has far outpaced progress in cultural advancement. The alien then accuses humankind of invading Mars, warning that if future expeditions ever return to the Red Planet, then the Earth would be destroyed in retaliation.

####Antidote (film)####
####Apogee of Fear####
####The Arcadian####
####Area Q####
The film follows the story of Thomas Mathews, a well-known and award-winning reporter who suffers a big impact with the disappearance of his son.  A year later, Thomas has not discovered anything about the kidnapping and remains obsessed with it to the point of being about to lose his home and his job.

In order to help him, his boss offers a special project, in which the journalist must investigate cases of UFO sightings, close encounters of the first, second and third kind and even abductions.  For this task he must travel to Ceará, Brazil, in the cities of Quixadá and Quixeramobim, known as "Area Q".

It is during investigations that Thomas meets João Batista, a man who has many answers about what is happening in this area and also about his son.  Gradually, he begins to realize that he is about to experience the greatest discovery of his life.

####Armageddon (1998 film)####
A massive meteor shower destroys the orbiting Space Shuttle Atlantis, before entering the atmosphere and bombarding New York City. The meteors were pushed out of the asteroid belt by a rogue comet that also jarred loose a Texas-sized asteroid that will impact Earth in 18 days, causing an event that will wipe out all life on the planet. NASA devises a plan to have a deep hole drilled into the asteroid, into which they will insert and detonate a nuclear bomb to destroy the asteroid.

They recruit Harry Stamper, a third-generation oil driller and owner of his own oil drilling company. Harry agrees to help, but on the condition that he bring in his own team to do the drilling. He picks his best employees for the job: Chick Chapel, his best friend and right-hand man; geologists Rockhound and Oscar Choice; and drillers Bear Curlene, Freddie Noonan, Max Lennert, and A.J. Frost (who has been dating Harry's daughter Grace despite Harry's objections). Over twelve days, they are trained to become astronauts with astronaut Willie Sharp, who will pilot "Freedom" &mdash; one of the two shuttles to fly to the asteroid, the other being the "Independence". Before leaving, Chick apologizes to his ex-wife for wronging her and sees his son, who is unaware of his parentage. Grace accepts A.J.'s marriage proposal, much to Harry's reluctant dismay; she later has her father promise to return home safe with her fiancé.

Following the destruction of Shanghai by another meteor strike, word of the massive asteroid becomes public to the world. Both shuttles take off without incident and dock with the Russian Space Station Mir to take on fuel. During fueling, a spark causes a fire. A.J. and Russian Cosmonaut Lev Andropov manage to board "Independence" before the space station is destroyed.

Approaching the asteroid, "Independence" is damaged by debris and crashes, killing all on board except Lev, Bear, and A.J. They embark in the shuttle's Armadillo to find the "Freedom" crew, which lands 26 miles from its intended landing site. When the drilling goes slower than predicted, Sharp reports to Mission Control that it is unlikely the team will reach the depth necessary to destroy the asteroid before "Zero Barrier", the point after which detonating the rock will not save Earth. The President of the United States decides to remotely detonate the bomb from Earth immediately, which will cause total mission failure. Sharp and Harry have a vicious argument, but agree to defuse the bomb and work together after Harry promises Sharp that he will accomplish the mission. They make progress on drilling, but a missed gas pocket causes the Armadillo and Max to be blown into space. Just as Harry, NASA, and the world believe the mission to be a failure, while another meteor devastates Paris, A.J. and the others arrive in the second Armadillo.

A.J. succeeds in drilling the hole to the required depth, but a rock storm kills Gruber and damages the remote detonator, forcing someone to stay behind and manually detonate the bomb. They draw straws; the responsibility falls upon A.J. Harry takes him down to the asteroid's surface, and disconnects A.J.'s air hose, forces him into the shuttle's air lock and tells A.J. that he is the son Harry never had and he would be proud to have him marry Grace. Using the Armadillo, Harry tearfully gives Grace his blessing to marry A.J., and Grace says that she is proud to be his daughter.

After some difficulty, "Freedom" takes off, but then a second blowout causes Harry to lose his grip on the detonator. Just before Zero Barrier, he detonates the bomb and saves the planet. The astronauts land on Earth safely. A.J. and Grace are reunited and Chick reconciles with his ex-wife and estranged son. Later, A.J. and Grace are married with the portraits of Harry and the others lost on the mission present "in memoriam".

####Assassinaut####
####The Astronaut (1972 film)####

Television coverage of Brice Randolph, the first astronaut on the surface of Mars, is interrupted, indicating the signal has been lost.  Shortly afterward, Eddie Reese is recruited, and shown what happened after the TV signal was interrupted: Brice reported something penetrating his EVA suit, and soon expired. The other astronaut lifted off alone.  NASA (who fear their project will be canceled) needs to keep it secret until they have answers about what exactly happened.

Reese is surgically altered, and begins learning his role as Brice.  At the arrival of the spacecraft back on Earth, the splashdown site is altered so that the press is unaware of Reese being brought to join the returning space crew, and Reese, maintaining the cover, is now having to act his role with the dead man's wife Gail.  Uneasy about being intimate with another man's wife, Reese unwittingly betrays himself to her, and her suspicions are raised.

Eventually, NASA determines what happened on Mars, and is ready to let Reese out of the masquerade, but Reese and Gail are willing to carry on as if he "is" Brice Randolph.  Reese then hears from a boy, who asked for an autograph, that the Soviets have just launched their own mission to land on Mars.

NASA does not warn the Soviet of what dangers await them, however, Reese and Gail reveal the truth.

####Astronaut: The Last Push####
The film opens with a montage of footage which include greetings from Earth and an interview of the sponsor of the mission. Astronauts Nathan Miller and Michael Forrest are onboard Life One, a spacecraft built by Moffit Industries. They are supposed to be in hibernation for 6 years until they reach Europa, taking a route around Venus, sling-shotting around Earth to gain speed to get to Europa.

Midway through the first leg of their journey, Life One's proximity sensors sound; the ship is impacted and Michael Forrest is awakened. Michael escapes and seals the damaged hibernation and re-entry capsule with Nathan still inside. The habitation module Michael escapes to is leaking oxygen and is quickly repaired. Michael then makes contact with mission control. Aside from damage to the hibernation and re-entry capsule, along with engine control, the ship is intact.

Michael struggles to stay sane in the solitude while attempting to make repairs to Life One in order to fire the engines after swinging around Venus. Without the engines firing, Life One would stay in orbit around Venus. Mission control and Michael keep in regular contact, with Michael giving regular status reports on himself, and mission control giving encouragement and help in repairing the ship. Michael grows more frustrated over time as the repairs prove ineffective during engine tests. During one of the engine tests, the ship suffers a complete power failure. Michael desperately attempts to restore power but slowly loses hope as time progresses, the repairs fail to restore power, and the ship becomes cold. After a hallucination of his fellow astronaut jolts him awake, he makes one final effort to repair the ship which proves successful.

As the ship rounds Venus, Michael dons his space suit and re-enters the damaged hibernation capsule for the first time since the accident. He looks out of the window in awe at the sight of Venus' atmosphere below him. After passing Venus, he successfully ignites the engines and is two years away from Earth. On arriving at Earth he only has to reignite the engines to slow the ship down for a re-entry, but chooses not to. He instead chooses to slingshot past Earth per the original mission, and go to Europa, stating "Someone's supposed to go, Someone's supposed to see this". The film closes with him addressing Earth, as he ejects the hibernation capsule (along with Nathan) sending it to Earth, then reigniting the engines to take him to Europa.

####Atlas Shrugged (film series)####
####Atlas Shrugged: Part II####
Dagny Taggart pilots an airplane in pursuit of another plane. Dagny asks herself, "Who is John Galt?" before apparently crashing into a mountainside.

Nine months earlier, Dagny is trying to understand the abandoned prototype of an advanced motor she and her lover Hank Rearden have found. Scientists across the country have been disappearing under mysterious circumstances, but Dagny is able to locate Quentin Daniels, who agrees to help from an abandoned laboratory in Utah.

Dagny's brother James Taggart, president of the family railroad company, meets store clerk Cherryl Brooks and brings her to see a renowned pianist, who disappears during his performance, leaving a note asking, "Who is John Galt?" Later, at James and Cherryl's wedding, Dagny's friend Francisco d'Anconia argues with other guests about whether money is evil, and secretly informs Rearden about devastating explosions at his copper mine—the next day. Rearden spends the night with Dagny. Later, he is confronted about the affair by his wife Lillian, but when he offers a divorce she declines, in order to maintain her position in society.

Rearden sells his advanced Rearden Metal to Ken Danagger's coal mining company, but refuses to sell it to the federal government, in defiance of the newly enacted "Fair Share" law that forces businesses to sell to all buyers. The two are charged under the law. Dagny barges into Danagger's office, realizes that he too is about to disappear, and understands that she is close to understanding the force behind the disappearances. At trial, Rearden defends individual freedom and the pursuit of profit, and is given only a token penalty by the court, which fears turning him into a martyr. The government announces "Directive 10-289", which freezes employment and production and requires that all patents be gifted to the government. Rearden defies this decree as well, but relents when he is blackmailed with photos of himself and Dagny that would damage Dagny's reputation.

When Dagny hears about Rearden's "gift" and her brother's complicity, she quits the railroad. During her absence, a Taggart Transcontinental train collides with a military train in a tunnel, due largely to political pressure by a passenger and human error by Dagny's poorly trained replacement. This impels Dagny back to her job. D'Anconia tries to dissuade her from returning, as he had earlier tried to talk Rearden into leaving his business, but she returns anyway.

Dagny takes a train to Colorado to show her faith in the railway, but its engine fails. The repair technician used to work for 20th Century Motor Company, which produced the motor Dagny found. He tells Dagny how the need-based reward system in his company failed, and his coworker John Galt left the company vowing to "stop the motor of the world". Dagny calls Daniels, who tells her that he is quitting. Dagny buys a small airplane and flies to Utah to try to dissuade him, but as she is landing, she sees him get into a plane on the airstrip.

After a pursuit in the air—the opening scene of the film—Dagny's plane crashes in a valley hidden by stealth technology. A wounded Dagny Taggart crawls to the edge of her crashed plane, where she is greeted by John Galt.

####Atlas Shrugged Part III: Who Is John Galt?####
The owner of the 20th-century Motor Company has died and his children have taken over, with a new plan to operate the company: that everyone work as hard as he can, but that salaries be "based on need". A lab engineer named John Galt objects and announces, "I'll stop the motor of the world."

Twelve years later, the economy of the United States spirals downward. Shortages have grounded airlines and returned the railroads to dominance; over-regulation has led to financial disaster. Galt seems to be behind the disappearances of corporate executives and other experts. The latest disappearance is that of Dagny Taggart, the executive officer of the largest railroad company, Taggart Transcontinental. She had chased Galt in a private plane and crashed hers.

Dagny has reached Galt's Gulch, and Galt himself rescues her from the crashed plane. She meets several "disappeared" achievers, such as banker Midas Mulligan, who say they quit after coming to believe that government was enslaving them. On the outside, the government develops a classified new weapon called "Project F" and nationalizes the railroads, including Taggart Transcontinental.

The public grows increasingly frustrated with the central planning, comes to view Galt as the solution, and holds rallies calling for him to reform the government. Thompson, the Head of State, offers Galt a job in the government, but Galt rebuffs the offer. Later, the government tortures Galt using the power of "Project F". However, others from the Gulch arrive to free him and they escape back to their refuge as the power grid around New York City begins to collapse.

####Atom Man vs. Superman####
Lex Luthor, the Atom Man, invents a number of deadly devices to plague the city, including a disintegrating machine which can reduce people to their basic atoms and reassemble them in another place. But Superman manages to thwart each scheme. Since Kryptonite can rob Superman of his powers, Luthor decides to create a synthetic Kryptonite and putters about obtaining the necessary ingredients: plutonium, radium and the undefined 'etc.' Luthor places the Kryptonite at the launching of a ship, with Superman in attendance. He is exposed to the Kryptonite and passes out. Superman is taken off in an ambulance driven by Luthor's henchmen, and he is now under the control of Luthor. Superman is placed in a device, a lever is pulled, and the Man of Steel vanishes into "The Empty Doom".

####The Atomic Submarine####

A submarine is destroyed near the North Pole by a mysterious undersea light. The loss of this and several other ships in the Arctic alarms the world. Governments temporarily close the polar route and convene an emergency meeting at the Pentagon. Present is Commander Dan Wendover (Dick Foran), the captain of the atomic submarine "Tigershark", and Nobel Prize-winning scientist Sir Ian Hunt (Tom Conway). The United States Secretary of Defense (Jack Mulhall) leads the meeting; he explains all that is known about the Arctic disasters, and then describes the high-tech capabilities of "Tigershark". These include a special hull and a minisub ("Lungfish") that can be stored inside the submarine. The secretary finishes by telling Wendover that he is to take Hunt, "Tigershark", and her crew to resolve the ship sinkings, and if possible, eliminate their cause.

Lieutenant Commander Richard "Reef" Holloway (Arthur Franz), "Tigershark"'s executive officer, learns that his bunkmate is to be Dr. Carl Neilson Jr. (Brett Halsey), a pacifistic scientist whom he dislikes. A montage then follows, spotlighting the day-to-day life aboard "Tigershark", which eventually discovers the cause of the disasters, an underwater saucer-shaped craft with a sole light atop its upper dome. One of "Tigershark"'s scientists, Dr. Clifford Kent (Victor Varconi), briefly shows a photo of an unidentified flying object, pointing out its similarity to this underwater UFO. The submariners begin to realize that their quarry is extraterrestrial. The crew nicknames the saucer "Cyclops" because of its single light.

Commander Wendover orders the submarine's most powerful torpedoes fired. They reach the saucer, but do not explode, being stopped by a gel-like extrusion coming from within the UFO. The captain orders "Tigershark" to ram the alien saucer. The submarine's bow tip breaks through its lower side and becomes trapped.

Dr. Neilson pilots "Lungfish", taking Lt. Commander Holloway and a small party to board the UFO. Holloway has the boarding party cut free the bow with blow torches. Meanwhile, he explores the saucer's dark hallways after receiving telepathic messages from its sole occupant, an octopus-like creature with a single, very large eye. The alien kills all the boarding party except Holloway. The creature explains that, unlike humanity, what they create is made of living tissue. The saucer is a living creature and (as Holloway understands) is healing. The creature announces that it plans on bringing Holloway and several other specimens back to its home planet for further study. The aliens plan to modify themselves, based on what they learn about the human specimens. Once finished, they will return to colonize Earth.

Holloway attacks by firing a Very pistol into the alien's single eye, temporarily blinding it. While the eye rapidly heals, Holloway races back to "Lungfish" and returns to the "Tigershark". When Dr. Neilson asks about the remainder of their boarding party, Holloway says, "Fortunes of war".

The now-healed saucer sails to the North Pole to recharge its energy in preparation for leaving. Holloway tells Wendover, "Captain, if that thing ever gets back to where it came from, the Earth and everyone on it is doomed".

The submariners hold an emergency meeting of "Tigershark"'s on-board scientists, and they develop a plan to adapt a torpedo's guidance system to convert it into a guided water-to-air missile. When the saucer rises from the ocean, "Tigershark" fires the missile, destroying the UFO. Holloway and the young Neilson are reconciled, with the latter realizing that his pacifism was no match for a hostile alien.

####Attack the Block####
On Guy Fawkes Night, trainee nurse Samantha Adams (Jodie Whittaker) is mugged by a gang of teenage hoodlums: Pest (Alex Esmail), Dennis (Franz Drameh), Jerome (Leeon Jones), Biggz (Simon Howard) and leader Moses (John Boyega). When a meteorite falls from the sky into a nearby car, Samantha escapes. As Moses searches the wreck of the car for valuables, his face is scratched by a dog-sized alien creature. The creature runs away, but the gang chase and kill it. Hoping to gain fame and fortune, they take the dead animal to their acquaintance, cannabis dealer Ron (Nick Frost) and his boss Hi-Hatz (Jumayn Hunter), a local gang leader, who instead recruits Moses to work for him.

More objects fall from the sky. Eager to fight the creatures, the gang arm themselves and go to the nearest crash site, where they find one dead alien, but other living aliens. However, they find these aliens are much larger and more threatening (physically, they look like an eyeless hybrid of a wolf and a gorilla , with a mouth full of glowing shark teeth) when it kills Dennis’ pet pitbull Pogo. Fleeing the aliens, the gang are intercepted by two policemen accompanying Samantha, and Moses is arrested. The aliens follow Moses and maul the unarmed officers to death, leaving Samantha and Moses trapped inside a van. Dennis reaches the vehicle and drives it away, only to crash into Hi-Hatz's car when they pass through a nearby building’s parking space. Samantha runs away while the rest of Moses's gang catch up and confront Hi-Hatz and his henchman, who accuse Moses of trying to kill Hi-Hatz in order to replace him as the local druglord. An alien arrives and kills the henchman but is killed in turn by Hi-Hatz.

The gang try to flee to Wyndham Tower, a tower block, but are attacked outside by the aliens; Biggz is forced to hide in a skip, though he is later saved by a pair of their young neighbors who manage to kill the alien. Meanwhile, Pest is bitten in the leg by an alien who breaks into their building. They discover that Samantha also lives in their building and persuade her to treat Pest's leg. An alien bursts into her apartment and Moses kills it with a samurai sword. Realizing that the group was not lying about the creatures being extraterrestrial, Samantha joins them.

The gang moves upstairs to the flat owned by Tia (Danielle Vitalis), Dimples (Paige Meade), Dionna and Gloria, believing that their security gate will keep them safe. Two aliens instead attack from outside, smashing through the windows and decapitating Dennis. Samantha kills an alien, saving Moses in the process, while Tia and Dimples manage to kill the other one by ganging up on it. The girls believe the boys to be the focus of the creatures (since they killed the first alien) and kick them out of the flat. Hi-Hatz and two more henchmen arrive and attack the gang, blaming them for the death of the first henchman, but another alien arrives and chases Hi-Hatz and the henchmen into a lift; only Hi-Hatz makes it out alive.

Making their way upstairs to Ron's weed room, the gang runs into more aliens, but using fireworks as a distraction, they manage to get through. Jerome becomes disoriented in the smoke and is killed by an alien. Entering Ron's flat, they find that Hi-Hatz is waiting for them there, who prepares to shoot Moses but he is then suddenly attacked and killed by the rest of the aliens who break in through the window. The group flee and are joined by Brewis, one of Ron's customers and a zoology student. Moses, Pest and Samantha retreat into the weed room, while Ron hides in the flat.

In the weed room, Brewis notices a luminescent stain on Moses' jacket under the ultraviolet light. Brewis theorises that the aliens are like spores, drifting through space on solar winds until they chance on a habitable planet; after landing in an area with enough food, the female lets off a strong pheromone to attract the male creatures so that they can mate and propagate their species; Moses has been carrying scent since he and the others killed the female which is how the males have always been able to find them. Moses persuades Pest to return Samantha's stolen ring and together they form a plan. As Samantha has not been stained with the alien pheromone she can to go to Moses's flat and turn on the gas oven.

Samantha successfully bypasses the aliens and turns on the gas in the flat. She leaves the tower block, and Moses, with the corpse of the small female alien strapped to his back, runs to the gas-filled apartment with all of the big male aliens following him. He throws the corpse into the apartment; with a firework he ignites the room and leaps out of the window. The resulting explosion kills all the aliens but leaves the high-rise flat in flames. Moses survives by grabbing onto a flag hanging from the balcony.

In the aftermath, Moses, Pest, Brewis and Ron are arrested and held responsible by the arriving police for all of the recent deaths (caused by the aliens) around the block that night. The police then ask Samantha to identify Moses and his friends as those who killed everyone, including the two police officers who had arrested Moses earlier. Instead, Samantha says the boys are her neighbours and they protected her. In the back of the police van, Moses and Pest hear the residents of the block cheering for Moses; they both smile.

####The Bamboo Saucer####
Test pilot Fred Norwood is flying the experimental X-109 jet aircraft accompanied by a chase plane. During the flight testing, Norwood finds himself pursued by a flying saucer and has to engage in a series of tricky aerobatics to protect his aircraft.

Once on the ground, Norwood is informed that the radar tracking his jet picked up no other aircraft near him except the chase plane. Though Norwood insists on what he saw, his superiors, who were monitoring his vital signs, think he has had a series of hallucinations and order him off the project. Blanchard, the USAF pilot of the chase plane, exits a room in an unusually frightened and nervous state; he parrots words about not seeing another aircraft on the flight and that the reported event was merely an aerial inversion. When Blanchard falters with his explanation, he is again prompted what to say by the panel members in the room.

Now angered and determined, Norwood decides to prove what he saw by patrolling the area in a North American P-51 Mustang equipped with laser radar until he reaches the point of exhaustion. As Norwood sleeps, his best friend, Joe Vetry, a fellow pilot who is married to Norwood's sister Dorothy, takes off in the Mustang when radar picks up an unidentified flying object. Norwood and Dorothy view Joe's aircraft vanish off the radar screen; later Federal Aviation Administration crash investigators tell Norwood that his friend's Mustang disintegrated in midair in a manner similar to the accounts of the Mantell UFO incident.

Norwood finds himself summoned to Washington D.C. Hank Peters, a member of an influential, unnamed agency of the United States Government, not only believes his account but shows him a sketch that Norwood identifies as the same object that buzzed his test aircraft. Peters tells Norwood that the sketch was provided from intelligence sources based in Red China. Due to Norwood's familiarity with a variety of aircraft, he is asked to accompany Peters and two scientists who will be parachuted into Red China. Peters informs him that there are reliable sources that say two humanoid aliens in the saucer later died, likely from exposure to Earth bacteria; due to rapid deterioration, their bodies were cremated.

At the Chinese drop zone, they are met by American agent Sam Archibald who leads them to the saucer now hidden inside the ruins of a Catholic church. Due to the Communists having destroyed the church, the locals assist the Americans in any way possible. On traveling to their destination while evading units of the People's Liberation Army, they run across a party of Russian scientists led by their own version of Agent Peters. The two parties decide to cooperate in investigating the hidden saucer.

After a tense altercation, the Americans and one of the Russian scientists board the saucer, activate it, and fly out of Chinese airspace, while under fire from enemy soldiers. A pre-programmed course instantly takes control and flies them away from Earth  past the Moon, past Mars, and toward Saturn. Unable to return unless they work together to control the alien UFO, they are finally successful and able to re-enter Earth's atmosphere (a quote from President John F. Kennedy about mutual human cooperation in space flashes on screen).

####Battle for the Planet of the Apes####
Told as a flashback to the early 21st century, with a wraparound sequence narrated by the orangutan Lawgiver in "North America – 2670 A.D.", this sequel follows the chimpanzee Caesar years after a global nuclear war has destroyed human civilization. Living with his wife, Lisa and their son, Cornelius, Caesar creates a new society while trying to cultivate peace between the apes and remaining humans. Caesar is opposed by an aggressive gorilla general named Aldo, who wants to imprison the humans who freely roam Ape City while doing menial labor.

After defusing followers of Aldo who attacked a human teacher Abe for saying "No" to apes, Caesar ponders if his own parents could have taught him how to make things better. MacDonald, Caesar's human assistant and the younger brother of MacDonald (from "Conquest of the Planet of the Apes") reveals to Caesar that his brother told him of archived footage of Cornelius and Zira within the underground, now radioactive ruins of what is known as the Forbidden City from the last film. Caesar travels with MacDonald and his orangutan advisor Virgil to the Forbidden City to find the archives.

It is revealed that mutated and radiation-scarred humans are living within the city, under the command of Governor Kolp, the man who once captured Caesar. Caesar and his party view the recordings of his parents, learning about the future and Earth's eventual destruction before they are forced to flee when Kolp's soldiers hunt them. Fearing the mutant humans may attack Ape City, Caesar reports his discoveries. When Caesar calls MacDonald and a select group of humans to the meeting, Aldo leads the gorillas away.

Kolp's scouts find Ape City. Believing Caesar is planning to finish off all mutant humans, Kolp declares war on Ape City despite his assistant Méndez's attempt to get him to see reason. Aldo plots a coup d'état in order for the gorillas to take control. Cornelius overhears from a nearby tree, but is critically wounded when Aldo spots him and hacks off the tree branch he is on with his sword. The next day, after a gorilla scouting pair are attacked by Kolp's men, Aldo takes advantage of a grieving Caesar's absence to have all humans corralled while looting the armory. Cornelius eventually dies from his wounds, leaving a devastated Caesar with the revelation that Cornelius was not hurt by humans.

When Kolp's ragtag force launches their attack, Caesar orders the defenders to fall back. Finding Caesar lying among dozens of fallen apes, Kolp expresses his intention to personally kill him. The apes, however, are merely feigning death and launch a counterattack that captures most of the mutant humans. Kolp and his remaining forces try to escape, only to be slaughtered by Aldo's troops once they are out in the open.

Aldo confronts Caesar about releasing the corralled local humans and orders the gorillas to kill them. When Caesar shields the humans and Aldo threatens him, Virgil, having learned the truth from MacDonald, reveals Aldo's role in Cornelius's death. Enraged with Aldo for breaking their most sacred law, "ape shall never kill ape", Caesar pursues him up a large tree, their confrontation resulting in Aldo falling to his death.

With Caesar realizing that apes are no different than their former human slaveowners, he agrees to MacDonald's request for humans to be treated as equals, co-existing in a new society. They store their guns in the armory; Caesar and Virgil reluctantly explain to the armory's overseer, an orangutan named Mandemas, that they will still need their weapons for future conflicts and can only wait for the day when they will no longer need them.

The scene returns to the Lawgiver, saying it has now been over 600 years since Caesar's death. His audience is revealed to be a group of young humans and apes, the Lawgiver noting that their society still waits for a day when their world will no longer need weapons, while they "wait with hope". A closeup of a statue of Caesar shows a single tear falling from one eye.

####Beyond the Sky (film)####
####Beyond the Time Barrier####
U.S. Air Force test pilot Major Bill Allison flies the X-80 experimental aircraft to sub-orbital spaceflight successfully, though he loses radio contact. When Major Allison returns to the airbase, it appears abandoned, old and deserted.  Mystified, he sees a futuristic city on the horizon and heads for it. The major is rendered unconscious and captured.

When Allison wakes, he finds himself in a dystopian underground city known as the Citadel.  Unnerved by his captors' refusal to speak with him, Allison initially reacts hostilely, but he eventually calms down and is brought to their leader, the Supreme.  The Supreme explains that he and his second-in-command, the Captain, are the only two residents of the Citadel who are able to speak or hear.  The rest of the inhabitants, including the Supreme's granddaughter Trirene, are deaf-mutes, and everyone except possibly Trirene is sterile.  A telepath, Trirene reads Allison's thoughts and indicates to the Supreme that she believes him not to be a spy, as the Captain suspects.

The Captain sends Allison to be imprisoned with a group of bald and violent mutants who are determined to kill everyone in the Citadel.  As the mutants attack him, Allison overpowers one and demands answers. They claim to be the survivors of a "cosmic plague", and they blame the residents of the Citadel for their problems.  The Captain releases Allison and explains that Trirene has convinced the Supreme that he is not an enemy.  Sensing his confusion, Trirene shows him historical photographs that help explain the Citadel's history, and at his urging, leads him to the "scapes", two scientists and a Russian woman officer.

After disabling surveillance devices, the scientists explain that Allison has traveled through time to the year 2024.  Nuclear weapons testing damaged the Earth's atmosphere, letting through dangerous cosmic rays in 1971, resulting in the cosmic plague.  Those who fled underground to the Citadel were still afflicted. Although they were not as badly afflicted as those who stayed above ground, there have been no births in twenty years. The 'scapes themselves are also accidental time travelers: Russian Captain Markova comes from 1973, and General Kruse and Professor Bourman arrived from colonies on other planets in 1994.  Markova explains that the Supreme needs Allison to try to repopulate their society with Trirene's help. The scientists warn Allison not to trust the Citadel.  As the Captain arrives to re-enable the security device, he in turn warns Allison not to trust the scientists.

As Trirene and Allison spend more time together, they fall in love.  Although initially reluctant, Allison joins the 'scapes in a plan to turn Trirene against her people so that he can return to the past and try to change history. Markova sets the mutants free to attack the residents.  She then demands that she accompany Allison, not Trirene, and to 1973, not 1960.  Kruse and Bourman arrive, and Kruse shoots Markova for her treachery.  Then Bourman knocks out Kruse, explaining that Kruse was planning to hijack the aircraft.  Bourman, however, also intends to use the X-80 to return to his own time. As Allison and Bourman struggle over Kruse's pistol, a stray bullet kills Trirene before Allison can overcome Bourman.

Allison takes Trirene's body to the Supreme, who is distraught over both his granddaughter's death and the doom of his people, now that the last fertile person has died.  The Supreme directs Allison toward a secret passage out, persuaded by Allison that there is always hope.  Returned to his own time, Allison recounts his fantastic adventure in a recorded debriefing.  As high-ranking officials visit Allison in the hospital, he is revealed to have aged drastically and is now an elderly man.  Allison frantically warns them of the future events, and one of them says that they have a lot to think about.

####Beyond Witch Mountain####
####Bill, the Galactic Hero (film)####
####Billy Frankenstein####
"Billy Frankenstein" tells the story of a kid named Billy Frank (Jordan Lamoureux), who is related to the distant Victor Frankenstein, along with his artistic mother, Sandy (Melissa Williamson) and workaholic father George (Daran Norris). Meanwhile, a man named Bloodstone (Peter Spellos) dreams of bringing the Frankenstein monster to life, but is now unable to because the Frankenstein castle is up for auction. He invites the Franks to move into the castle in the hopes of using Billy (who is the latest relative to Frankenstein) to bring the monster to life. Also, an unintelligent officer named Constable Frogg (John Maynard) has a family history of other Froggs capturing the Frankenstein monster, and dreams of continuing the legacy. Frogg also constantly receives phone calls from prank callers who say "ribbit ribbit". Frogg is hired by a man named Otto von Sloane (Vernon Wells), and his lady Fraulein (Griffin Drew), to scare the Franks into selling him the castle and make way for a mall.

Billy, his mother Sandy and Billy's aunt Thelma (Kristin Jadrnicek) arrive at the castle and meet Bloodstone, who introduces himself as the caretaker of the house. Billy discovers one of Dr. Frankenstein's books about life and death and finds a map of the castle inside the book which leads him into the basement where he discovers the inanimate Frankenstein monster. When Billy falls asleep in the basement, the monster comes to life. Rather than being scary and threatening, the monster turns out to be friendly and confused. Billy wakes up later to discover the monster had gotten loose and goes out to find him, as does Bloodstone, who hires Sloane's lawyer (who announced the house repossession) to find Billy and the monster. Frogg disguises himself as a cable guy and sets up microphones around the house. Billy eventually comes across the monster, befriends it and brings the monster, poorly disguised as his grandmother, through a nearby village. Soon though, the monster begins to run out of power and so Billy and Bloodstone take him back to the lab basement to recharge him.

Billy's father, George, finally arrives home much to Billy's excitement. George announces that he got fired from his job, but isn't worried because of his family importance and inheritance to the castle, but Billy and Sandy tell him that the lawyer had told them earlier in the film that they need to raise $25,000 to buy the castle, so George comes up with the idea of inviting Sloane to dinner to discuss the payment. Billy and Bloodstone try bring the monster back to life, but leave when they think they've failed, but the monster shows signs of life when they leave. Billy and Bloodstone try to hide the monster from prying eyes, but Thelma faints after seeing him. Sloane and Fraulein visit Frogg to find he has disguised himself as the monster, which Sloane takes an interest in. While out shopping, George and Sandy buy a Frankenstein monster doll to give to Billy as a present and arrive home to give Billy the doll and have dinner with Sloane and Fraulein. Finally, Sandy sees the monster for herself, who Sloane mistakes for Frogg. When Sloane is convinced of the monster's existence, he and Fraulein both flee.

The film ends with the Franks, Thelma, Bloodstone and Frogg, raising the $25,000 by having tourist attractions in their castle, complete with photos with the Frankenstein monster and tours down to the lab, where a little girl pulls the lever and electrocutes herself, making her resemble the "Bride of Frankenstein". When the Franks end up wondering what happened to Sloane's lawyer, we see the lawyer, still looking for Billy and the monster, asking Dracula where they are, and Dracula points into the direction of Transylvania, which the lawyer follows.

####Biohazard: The Alien Force####
####Black Adam (film)####

In 2600 BC, the tyrannical king Ahk-Ton of Kahndaq creates the Crown of Sabbac to attain great power. After attempting to stage a revolt, a young slave boy is given the powers of Shazam by the Council of Wizards, transforming him into Kahndaq's heroic champion, who fights Ahk-Ton, killing him and ending his reign.

In the present day, Kahndaq is oppressed by the Intergang, a criminal organization, as Adrianna Tomaz, an archaeologist and resistance-fighter, tries to locate the Crown of Sabbac with the help of her brother Karim and their colleagues Samir and Ishmael. As Adrianna obtains the crown, Intergang ambushes them and kills Samir, forcing Adrianna to read an incantation that awakens Teth-Adam, whom she believes to be Kahndaq's champion, from a slumber. As he slaughters most of the Intergang troops, US government official Amanda Waller deems Adam a threat and contacts the Justice Society to apprehend him. Justice Society members Hawkman, Doctor Fate, Cyclone, and Atom Smasher arrive in time to stop Adam's killing spree and explain to Adrianna that Adam was not an entombed savior, but an imprisoned killer.

Ishmael reveals himself as the leader of Intergang's Kahndaq division and kidnaps Adrianna's teenage son Amon, who has stolen and hidden the crown. Adam, Adrianna, and the Justice Society find the crown and intend to trade it for Amon. Reaching Ishmael, he reveals himself as the last descendant of King Ahk-Ton and wants his rightful place on the throne. Adrianna willingly gives the crown to save Amon's life, but Ishmael betrays his part of the deal and shoots at Amon, causing Adam to lose control and destroy the hideout with his powers, killing Ishmael and wounding Amon.

Guilt-ridden, Adam flees to the ruins of Ahk-Ton's palace and reveals to Hawkman that the legends of Kahndaq's champion were misattributed; it was Adam's son, Hurut, who was granted Shazam's powers and became Kahndaq's champion. Knowing that Hurut was invincible, Ahk-Ton instructed assassins to execute Hurut's family, including Adam and Hurut's mother. Hurut gave Adam his powers to save his life and Ahk-Ton's assassins immediately killed the de-powered Hurut, causing an enraged Adam to massacre all of the king's men and inadvertently destroy his palace. Subsequently, deemed unworthy by the Council of Wizards, Adam attacked and killed them all in anger except for Shazam, who imprisoned him along with the Crown of Sabbac within what became Adam's tomb.

Feeling incapable of becoming a true hero, Adam surrenders and the Justice Society takes him to a secret underwater Task Force X black site in Antarctica, where Fate has a premonition of Hawkman's impending death. As the Justice Society returns to the city, they realize Ishmael intentionally provoked Adam to kill him while he wore the Crown just as Ishmael is reborn as Sabbac, the champion of the six eponymous demons and rises from the underworld to claim his throne.

When Sabbac summons the Legions of Hell to terrorize Kahndaq, the people are rallied by Amon, Adrianna, and Karim to repel the undead as the Justice Society unsuccessfully attempts to stop Sabbac. However, Fate creates a magic force field around the ruins preventing his teammates from entering, disclosing that Hawkman's death can be avoided with his sacrifice.

As he fights Sabbac alone, Fate uses astral projection to release Adam while talking to him in his cryo sleep. Sabbac kills Fate, and as a result, it dissolves the force field. Hawkman immediately enters to face Sabbac while Atom Smasher and Cyclone help protect the civilians. Sabbac quickly overpowers Hawkman, but Adam arrives just in time to join the fight. With aid from Hawkman using Fate's helmet, Adam kills Sabbac, and the Justice Society departs on good terms with Adam, who destroys the old throne in belief that Kahndaq needs a protector, not a ruler, and adopts a new name: Black Adam.

In a mid-credits scene, Waller communicates with a defiant Adam and warns him against leaving Kahndaq. Afterwards, Superman arrives and suggests that they should talk.

####The Black Hole (2016 film)####
A violinist has hallucinations that show her the collapse of space and time. The visions she experiences, and the things she hears, leads her to a portal through time and space to a parallel dimension.

####Blue Beetle (film)####
####Blush (2021 film)####
The short film opens up with an unnamed astronaut planting a garden in his spaceship but doesn't realize that a meteor is on its way to crashing into the spaceship. As a result, his spaceship is destroyed, and he is left alone on a small deserted planet. He later removes plants from his garden and plants them on the planet, but in a matter of hours, the plants wither without air or water. He later witnesses another spaceship crash into the planet, which makes him believe there was someone on the ship. His plants suddenly regrow and create a tree, and notices a pinkish female alien with ribbon hair making the tree grow. They later develop a relationship based on love at first sight, and the alien later removes plants from the spaceship to plant them into the planet, essentially making it a larger garden. The astronaut later decides to remove his helmet, but nearly dies from asphyxia. The alien decides to give him some of her air to make him breathe.

Some months later, the astronaut spends his time with her, and taught her a few things like eating mangos. As the years go by, the couple develops their relationship and is seen having two daughters who have their own treats from their parents, an older girl with her mother's hair but closely realistic to her father's and a young girl with her father's hair but closely to her mother's ribbon hair. The alien later is seen as weak, to the point where she can no longer eat and/or walk. As a result, the planet withers and she dies into an aurora, which causes the astronaut to nearly die from asphyxia again til he nearly lives when he wakes up to his daughters, who are giving him air so that he can breathe again and make the planet regrows in an instant, revealing they have their mother's powers in them.

During the post-credits scenes, as he's sleeping with his daughters and a pet alien dog, the astronaut witnesses another spaceship crash into the planet. Curious though, he and his daughters go to check out only to discover something that made him blush.

####Brick Bradford (serial)####
Brick Bradford is assigned by the government to aid Doctor  Gregor Tymak, scientist and inventor who is working on an "Interceptor Ray" that can destroy incoming rockets.  Unfortunately, it can also be used as a death ray, bringing it to the attention of foreign spy agent Laydron. Tymak uses his door into the fifth dimension to escape criminals and it takes him to the far side of the Moon (which luckily has air and is a rocky terrain without craters). There he is captured and sentenced to die by freezing to absolute zero by the Queen Khana, despot of the Moon, because they do not believe he has come from the Earth.

The action moves to the Moon as the ray requires a special element called "Lunarium" (with an atomic mass of 200) previously only found in a meteorite.  Working with exiles in the lunar wasteland, the heroes overthrow Queen Khana and return with the "Lunarium".

However, the device still requires a formula hidden on an uncharted island 200 years in the past, so Brick and sidekick Sandy Sanderson travel in Tymak's time machine, the Time Top, to retrieve it.  The final third of the serial is spent on modern day Earth with more trouble from the spy Laydron.

####Brother Future####
The movie begins with TJ (Phill Lewis), a high school student from Detroit, selling stolen items to other members of his neighborhood. Upon returning to class, TJ finds he has to write a paper on a famous black person for his Black History class. TJ is later seen selling more stolen material while talking to his friend, but a police officer starts to chase him. While running, TJ gets hit by a car and is knocked unconscious.

When TJ awakens, he finds himself in 1822 in South Carolina, right next to an exceptionally large tree. Thinking that he is a runaway slave, TJ is brought to a slave auction and is sold to a man named Mr. Cooper. TJ then has to work on Mr. Cooper's plantation, and gets himself into all sorts of mischief.

While getting Zeke's (the black slave driver) food from Cooper's house, TJ runs into a house slave, Martilla, who also happens to be a palm reader. She tells TJ that to return to his own time, he must help another slave and then find the big tree which he was next to when he woke up after being hit by the car. After trying to help his fellow slaves with their chores, TJ becomes frustrated and attempts to run away. Unfortunately, he is stopped by Zeke, who then whips him.

Back at the plantation, TJ helps one of his fellow slaves, Josiah, learn to read. He shows Josiah how to write his name, and they read out of a book that Josiah stole from Cooper. To try to get Zeke in trouble with Cooper, he places the book in Zeke's house. Cooper finds the book, but also finds a piece of paper in the book in which Josiah had practiced writing his name. Josiah is then whipped to such an extent that he cannot move.

Due to Josiah's inability to move, he tells TJ to find Denmark Vesey and tell him about what happened. TJ does as he is told, and when he returns TJ tells Josiah what Vesey has told him. Josiah, TJ and Zeke have been asked to work at a party at Cooper's house serving food, but Josiah asks TJ to cover for him at seven o'clock as he is allied with Vesey and is part of Vesey's plan to rebel. Zeke overhears this and rushes to tell Cooper.

At the party, Zeke tells Cooper about what he has heard. TJ hears this and reports it to Josiah. The two then decide to escape. They also bring along Josiah's girlfriend Caroline. Cooper and Zeke chase after the trio. TJ decides to stall them and, while Josiah and Caroline escape, Cooper shoots TJ. He falls from the shot, right under the big tree.
When awakened, TJ finds himself back in his own time, where he decides to do better at school. He learns that to help yourself you sometimes have to help others. He also returns with a new pride in his heritage. TJ learns to become better and wants to get better grades to stay out of trouble.

####The Bubble (1966 film)####
Tony is flying Catherine, who is in labor, and her husband Mark to a local city when a storm forces their small aircraft to land near a small town. Catherine is rushed to a local doctor, who delivers her baby successfully. The town is an odd amalgamation of architectural styles and technology levels, and the people act drugged. There is no wind or rain. Tony's plane goes missing.

Mark and Tony discover a throne-like seat in a building. When Tony sits in the seat, he becomes like the townspeople. Mark locates Tony after some time and knocks him out. When Tony awakes, he's back to his old self.

When the outsiders try to leave, they discover the town is encased in a gigantic clear dome. Mark hypothesizes that aliens are studying the townspeople, and sitting in the rock seat keeps the townspeople alive (as no food is getting in). A massive shadow passes over the town, and a woman and her child are pulled into the air. Hysterical, Catherine hides with her baby in an old mill on the edge of town.

Mark and Tony decide to try to dig a tunnel under the dome. In frustration, Mark takes a sledgehammer to the throne. The shadow passes over and Tony is taken by the aliens. Realizing he has little time left before the aliens come for him, Mark starts frantically digging and finds the bottom of the dome.

The townspeople gather outside the mill, chanting for food. Thinking his family is about to be eaten, Mark gives a speech about freedom. Suddenly, the wind starts blowing and it starts raining. The aliens and the dome are gone.

####Captive Women####
The film opens with war footage from World War III ending with a nuclear attack.

Long after the nuclear war, the last human survivors are divided into three tribes. Robert (Clarke) and Ruth (Field) are about to be married in the ruins of a post-apocalyptic New York City during a brief interlude in ongoing hostilities between their tribe (the Norms) and the rival tribe (the Mutates). The Mutates try to adhere to the tenets of the Christian Bible, but it is rejected by the Norms.

However, raiders from a third tribe, the Upriver People, attack through the Hudson River Tunnel and capture Ruth and several other women because they desperately need fertile females. The warring tribes must put aside their differences to rescue the women, a joint effort that unfolds quite quickly in the short film.

Ultimately, the Upriver People are defeated and are trapped in the tunnel as it is flooded. The women are recovered, and there are improved prospects for more peaceful relations among the tribes as the film concludes.

####Cat-Women of the Moon####
Utilizing a spaceship equipped with wooden tables and chairs, a "scientific expedition" to the Moon encounters a race of cat-women, the last survivors of a two-million-year-old lunar civilization. Residing deep within a Moon cavern, the cat-women have managed to maintain not only the remnants of a breathable atmosphere and Earth-like gravity, but also a pair of gigantic Moon-spiders. The cat-women wear black unitards, have beehive hairstyles, and wear elaborate cosmetics. Realizing that their remaining atmosphere will soon be exhausted, the cat-women plan to steal the expedition's spaceship and return to Earth, where, in the words of the cat-women's leader, Alpha (Carol Brewster), "We will get their women under our power, and soon we will rule the whole world!"

Through the use of their telepathic abilities, the cat-women have been subliminally controlling Helen Salinger (Marie Windsor), the mission navigator and only female member of the Earth expedition. Once on the Moon, the cat-women take control of Helen's mind, after which she leads the entire crew (clad in spacesuits and equipped with matches, cigarettes, and a gun) to the cat-women's cavern. Although unable to directly control male minds, the cat-women are able to influence the male crew through Helen, using their own superior intellectual abilities and feminine wiles. As explained to Helen by the cat-woman Beta (Suzanne Alexander), "Show us their weak points. We'll take care of the rest."

Along with telepathy, the cat-women can transport themselves, unseen and instantly, from place-to-place within the cavern. They use this ability to steal the crew's unguarded spacesuits, which forces the crew deeper into the cavern and into violent confrontations with the two Moon-spiders and the cat-women. Failing to exterminate the men, the cat-women approach them openly, using Helen to help establish friendly relations. Kip (Victor Jory), who has been suspicious of the cat-women, confronts Alpha about the missing spacesuits; she promises to return the suits in the morning. Food and drink are then brought, and private conversations between both groups begin. As these progress ("You're too smart for me, baby. I like 'em stupid"), the gun-wielding Kip sits alone, unable to intervene, while the cat-women successfully manipulate the "weak points" of expedition commander Laird (Sonny Tufts) and the other men.

By that evening, the cat-women have learned how to pilot the spaceship. Following a modern dance performance by the cat-women, Walt (Douglas Fowley) is stabbed to death by Beta. Lambda (Susan Morrow) has fallen in love with crew member Doug (William Phipps) and tells him of the cat-woman plot, saying, "I love you Doug, and I must kill you". The male crew now realizes they are in danger. Carrying three spacesuits, Alpha, Beta, and Helen run toward the spaceship. Lambda teleports ahead to delay them and is bludgeoned to death by Beta. Kip catches up and fires several shots, killing Alpha and Beta but leaving Helen uninjured. The surviving expedition members escape the cavern, reach the spaceship, and return to Earth.

####City Beneath the Sea (1971 film)####
####Click (2006 film)####

Michael Newman is an architect who is consistently bullied by his overbearing boss, John Ammer, and often chooses work over his wife Donna and his two children, Ben and Samantha. One night, Michael visits the retail store Bed Bath & Beyond to buy a universal remote control. He stumbles around the various departments before falling asleep. Upon waking, he accepts a free remote control from a man named Morty, who warns him that it can never be returned.

Michael learns that the remote can be used to control reality much like a television. He uses it to his advantage at work, to cause light-hearted mischief, and to fast-forward past illnesses. Morty tells Michael that during these times, his body is on "auto-pilot", going through the motions of everyday life while his mind skips ahead.

Thinking that Ammer has promoted him to a partnership, Michael buys bicycles for his children and a Kate Spade purse for Donna. However, Ammer tells him that he has not yet been promoted and thus cannot afford the gifts and has to return them. Disappointed that he upset his family, Michael uses the remote to skip ahead to his promotion, thus missing a year of his life. During this time, he and Donna have entered marriage counseling, his children have matured, and the family dog has died. The remote, having learned his preferences, starts time-skipping automatically. Everytime Michael attempts to discard, deliver, smash or destroy the remote, it reappears. He later tells Morty to return it back where it belongs, but Morty doesn't want to take it back because it is non-returnable.

At work, Ammer tells Michael he is no longer the CEO of this place, which would make Michael the new head of the International Division and that, in time, Michael could be the new CEO from now on. This causes the remote to immediately fast-forward ten years into the future, where Michael is extremely wealthy, but morbidly obese and lives alone in a luxury apartment. He returns home to discover that Ben, now overweight like himself, and Samantha have both become moody teenagers, and that Donna has divorced him and remarried to Bill, Ben's former childhood swim coach. When he argues with them, the new family dog jumps on Michael and knocks him into a coma. The remote time-skips six years to when Michael wakes, no longer obese as a result of having undergone liposuction to save his life as a part of his cancer treatment and subsequent heart attack. A full-grown Ben is now a partner at the firm and is also slim having exercised with Bill.

Michael learns that his father, Ted, has died of old age. Morty reappears as Michael mourns him. Michael uses the remote to see when he last saw Ted, when Michael coldly rebuffed Ted's offer to take him and Ben out to dinner. At Ted's grave, Morty appears and reveals to Michael that he is the Angel of Death. Overcome with guilt and shame, Michael asks to go to a "good place", whereupon the remote fast-forwards him several more years in the future to Ben's wedding. He overhears Samantha refer to Bill as Dad, causing him to have a second heart attack. Later that night, he wakes in the hospital to find his family there, including Samantha, who clarifies that she views both Bill and Michael as her fathers. Ben reveals that he skipped his honeymoon to help fix issues with the firm before a nurse sends everyone away. Afraid that Ben will make the same mistakes like he did, Michael gathers the last of his strength to follow him and Samantha out of the hospital, but collapses and dies, but not before telling Ben to put his wife before work, and assures his family that he still loves them.

Michael reawakens in Bed Bath & Beyond and finds out that he was dreaming but sees it as a sign that he needs to make changes in his life. He embraces his family and promises to spend more time with them. He finds the remote on the counter along with a note from Morty, who reveals he has given him a second chance because "Good guys need a break." Michael throws the remote in the trash, and much to his surprise, it does not reappear. He then joins his family in a pillow fight.

####Clockstoppers####
The NSA-funded Quantum Tech (QT) Corporation has slated a project to develop Hypertime, a technology which allows the user's molecules to speed up to the point where the world appears in standstill. NSA head Moore ends the project due to the risk of the technology being acquired by hostile powers. QT's CEO Henry Gates plans on using Hypertime to dominate the world, but these plans are now falling apart: The NSA has given him only a weekend before they collect his equipment, his lead scientist Earl Dopler cannot fix a glitch which causes subjects in Hypertime to age rapidly, and after his henchmen prevent Dopler's incognito departure at the airport, Dopler informs Gates that he sent information on Hypertime and a prototype Hypertime wristwatch to his former teacher Dr. George Gibbs in hopes he could find a fix for the glitch.

Gibbs' daughter Kelly accidentally knocks the watch into a box of his son Zak's things. George is away at a convention on applied science, having turned down Zak's appeals to go car shopping with him. Zak repeatedly bombs out with Francesca, the hot new girl at school, first with a condescending offer to show her around and then, after she allows him to help her rake leaves, by bringing a live opossum into her house. However, she is impressed when he shows her the power of the watch, which they use to pull pranks around town, and later help Zak's friend Meeker win a battle of the DJs contest. At the end of the date she gives Zak a goodnight kiss.

Gates sends henchmen, armed with Hypertime watches and solid nitrogen guns for putting other Hypertime users back into normal time, to George's house to recover the prototype. While fleeing from them, Zak discovers Dopler tied up in their van and frees him. A chase ensues, with Zak crashing the van into a river, thus disabling the watch. Zak awakens in a hospital and is charged with stealing the van. He gets the watch working just long enough to steal a policeman's uniform, allowing him to evade both the police and Gates's henchmen. QT Corporation contacts national security agencies and portrays Zak, George and Dopler as fugitives. Zak goes on the run with Francesca, locating the hotel that George is staying at. QT reaches George first and kidnaps him to replace Dopler.

Dopler captures Zak and Francesca with a garbage truck. Francesca knocks Dopler out and she and Zak interrogate Dopler. Dopler reluctantly agrees to help save George. Using components that the three of them steal from the science convention, Dopler mends the broken watch and builds their own set of nitrogen guns.

Zak and Francesca break in. After activating Hypertime, Zak swaps a nonfunctional watch onto his wrist as a backup plan. QT captures Zak and Francesca, confiscates the nonfunctional watch, and throws them in a cell with George. The NSA deadline expires, so Gates puts the whole facility into Hypertime to stop the approaching NSA agents. Using his concealed watch while in Hypertime causes Zak's particles to accelerate to the point of instability, allowing him to pass through the walls of their cell and divert Gates and his henchmen long enough for George to rig a bomb which destroys the machine generating Hypertime. Gates tries to kill Francesca, Zak and George, but Dopler arrives and shoots Gates with nitrogen. The NSA agents take the watches to keep them safe, and arrest Gates and his henchmen, and the charges against Zak are dropped.

Dopler uses the machine he was building to reverse the aging effects of Hypertime, but it inadvertently changes him back into a teenager, meaning he will have to live with the Gibbs family for a few years. George lets Zak get the car he wanted. As Zak speeds off in his car with Kelly, Francesca, and Dopler, the police officer and detective from earlier drive after them to try to stop Zak for speeding. However, it is revealed that Zak has not returned the watch and continues to have fun in Hypertime.

####Cloned (film)####
A woman will receive a clone of her dead son if she keeps a geneticist's unethical methods secret.

####Close Encounters of the Third Kind####
In the Sonoran Desert, French scientist Claude Lacombe, his American interpreter, cartographer David Laughlin, and other researchers discover a flight of Grumman TBM Avengers that went missing shortly after World War II. The planes are in perfect condition, but without any occupants. An elderly witness nearby claims "the sun came out at night, and sang to him". The researchers are similarly baffled to find the ship|SS|Cotopaxi in the middle of the Gobi Desert, intact and completely empty. Near Indianapolis, air traffic controllers watch two airline flights narrowly avoid a mid-air collision with an unidentified flying object (UFO).

At a rural home outside Muncie, Indiana, three-year-old Barry Guiler wakes to find his toys operating on their own. He starts to follow something outside, forcing his mother, Jillian, to chase after him. Large-scale power outages begin rolling through the area, forcing electrician Roy Neary to investigate. While he gets his bearings, Roy experiences a close encounter with a UFO, and when it flies over his truck, it lightly burns the side of his face with its lights. The UFO takes off with three others in the sky, as Roy and three police cars give chase. The spacecraft fly off into the night sky but the metaphysical experience leaves Roy mesmerized. He becomes fascinated by UFOs to the dismay of his wife, Ronnie. He obsesses over subliminal images of a mountain shape, often making models of it. Jillian meanwhile also becomes obsessed, sketching the unique mountain image. Soon after, she is terrorized in her home by a UFO which descends from the clouds. She fights off violent attempts by the UFO and unseen beings to enter the home, but in the chaos, Barry is abducted.

Lacombe, Laughlin, and a group of United Nations experts, continue to investigate increasing UFO activity and strange, related occurrences. Witnesses in Dharamsala, Northern India report that the UFOs make distinctive sounds: a five-tone musical phrase in a pentatonic scale. Scientists broadcast the phrase to outer space, but are mystified by the response. This is a seemingly meaningless series of numbers (104 44 30 40 36 10) repeated until Laughlin, with his background in cartography, recognizes it as a set of geographical coordinates, which point to Devils Tower near Moorcroft, Wyoming. Lacombe and the U.S. military converge on Wyoming. The United States Army evacuates the area, planting false reports in the media that a train wreck has spilled a toxic nerve gas, while actually preparing a secret landing zone for the UFOs and their occupants.

Meanwhile, Roy's increasingly eccentric behavior causes Ronnie to abandon him, taking their three children. When a news program about the train wreck near Devils Tower airs on television, Roy and Jillian see the same broadcast, recognizing the same mountain they have been visualizing. They, along with other travelers experiencing the same visions, set out for Devils Tower in spite of the public warnings about nerve gas.

Most of the travelers are apprehended by the Army, but Roy and Jillian persist and reach the site just as UFOs appear in the night sky. The government specialists at the site begin to communicate with the UFOs, that gradually appear by the dozens, by using light and sound on a large electrical billboard. An enormous mothership lands to release many abductees from different eras and strangely not aged: World War II pilots, "Cotopaxi" sailors, adults, children, and animals. Barry also returns and reunites with Jillian. The government officials hastily prepare Roy for inclusion in its select group of potential visitors to the mothership.

As the extraterrestrials finally emerge from the mothership, they select Roy to join their travels. As Roy enters the mothership, one of the extraterrestrials pauses for a few moments with the humans. Lacombe uses Curwen hand signs that correspond to the five-note extraterrestrial tonal phrase. The extraterrestrial replies with the same gestures, smiles, and returns to its ship, which ascends into space.

####Cocoon: The Return####
Five years after they left Earth following a failed rescue mission, the Antareans return to rescue the cocoons that were left behind. Before they can be retrieved, one of the cocoons is discovered by a science research team and taken to a secure laboratory for testing. The aliens and their human allies must find a way to retrieve the cocoon in time for their rendezvous with the rescue ship, while the humans travelling with them must decide whether to return to Antarea or stay on Earth and become mortal again.

Joe learns that his leukemia has returned, but he knows it will be cured again as soon as he and Alma leave Earth. When Alma is hit by a car while saving a child, Joe gives up the last of his lifeforce, saving her life but sacrificing his. Before dying, he tells Alma to accept a job offer at a preschool and that he loves her. Art and Bess learn that Bess is pregnant, and decide to raise the child on Antarea so they will live long enough to see him grow up. Ben and Mary reconnect with their family and friends, including Bernie who is shown to have found love with Ruby, alleviating his suicidal depression over Rose's death. And although a lovelorn Jack once again attempts to woo Kitty, she instead grants him a vision of his future, showing him children and a wife with a small heart-shaped birthmark on her neck.

The next night, before Ben, Mary, Art and Bess leave to meet the Antareans, Alma tells them she is staying on Earth to work at the preschool. Art, Kitty, Ben, and his grandson David (Barret Oliver) then rescue the Antarean from the Oceanographic Institute. Sara, one of the scientists working at the institute, becomes aware of the company's plans to hand the alien over to the military. Unhappy about this, when she discovers the rescuers, she allows them to escape.

After the four get the Antarean on Jack's boat out at sea, Ben makes it known to everyone that he and Mary were going to stay on Earth as well, since family was more important than living forever and that they should not outlive their children. When the space ship arrives, they are met by Walter before the Antareans, Art, Bess, and the cocoons left behind from the previous trip are brought aboard the space ship which departs for their homeworld.

Back at port after he has said his goodbyes to Ben, Mary, and David, Jack is approached by Sara asking if he knows of a place where she could get some gas. They walk and talk for a bit, where Sara tells him she just quit her job. He eventually notices the small heart-shaped birthmark on her neck.

####The Colossus of New York####
Jeremy Spensser (Ross Martin), the brilliant young son of a New York family of scientists and humanitarians, is killed when hit by a truck as he chases his son's toy airplane. His death occurs on the eve of his winning the "International Peace Prize", and he leaves behind a wife (Mala Powers) and young son (Charles Herbert).
File:Tri-City Drive-In Ad - 21 November 1958, Loma Linda, CA.jpg|thumb|left|Drive-in advertisement from 1958 for "The Colossus of New York" and co-feature, "From the Earth to the Moon".
Jeremy's father, noted brain surgeon William Spensser (Otto Kruger), is distressed that his son's gifts will be denied to mankind. He devises a plan to give Jeremy's mind another chance to benefit humanity by transplanting the brain (which he has revived and kept on life support) into an artificial, robotic body. William convinces Jeremy's brother, Henry, an expert in automation, to assist with the process in secret.

Because of its horrific appearance, the huge colossus (Ed Wolff) they've created is kept in seclusion for nearly a year, secretly continuing Jeremy's work on new food sources. Deprived of normal human contact and possibly of its "soul", Jeremy's mind slowly begins to lose its humanity. He kills his brother, who has fallen in love with Jeremy's wife, and then speaks to his father of the futility of providing food for "the slum people of the world", when it's "simpler and wiser to get rid of them". As Jeremy's mind loses control of his mechanical body, other unexplained powers suddenly emerge from the strictly mechanical body, including mind control of humans and a death ray emanating from both its eyes.

Finally, Jeremy's out-of-control body goes on a rampage in the United Nations building, killing several people. Only when Jeremy's young son confronts the cyborg is Jeremy able to restore his self-control long enough to tell the boy how to switch off and destroy the body of the "colossus".

####Conceiving Ada####
####Condition (film)####
####Conquest of Space####
Humankind has achieved space flight capability and built "The Wheel" space station in orbit convert|1075|mi|km above Earth. It is commanded by its designer, Colonel Samuel T. Merritt. His son, Captain Barney Merritt, having been aboard for a year, wants to return to Earth.

A giant spaceship has been built in a nearby orbit, and an Earth inspector arrives aboard the station with new orders: Merritt Sr. is being promoted to general and will command the new spaceship, now being sent to Mars instead of the Moon. As General Merritt considers his crew of three enlisted men and one officer, his close friend, Sgt. Mahoney volunteers. The general turns him down for being 20 years too old. Hearing that Mars is the new destination, Barney Merritt volunteers to be the second officer.

Right after the crew watches a TV broadcast from their family and friends, the mission blasts off for the Red Planet. The general's undiagnosed and growing space fatigue is beginning to seriously affect his judgement: reading his Bible frequently, he has doubts about the righteousness of the mission. After launch, Sgt. Mahoney is discovered to be a stowaway, having hidden in a crew spacesuit. Their piloting radar antenna later fails, and two crewmen  go outside to make repairs. They manage to get it working just as their monitors show a glowing planetoid, 20 times larger than their spaceship, coming at them from astern. The general fires the engines, barely managing to avoid a collision, but the planetoid's fast-orbiting debris punctures Sgt. Fodor's spacesuit, killing him instantly. After a religious service in space, Fodor's body is cast adrift into the void.

Eight months later, the general is becoming increasingly mentally unbalanced, focusing on Sgt. Fodor's loss as "God's judgement". On the Mars landing approach, he attempts to crash their spaceship, now convinced the mission violates the laws of God. Barney wrests control away from his father, landing the large flying wing glider-rocket safely. Later, as the crew takes their first steps on the Red Planet, they look up and see water pouring down from the now vertical return rocket. Barney quickly discovers the leak is sabotage caused by his father, who threatens his son with a .45 automatic. The two struggle and the pistol discharges, killing the general. Sgt. Mahoney, who observed only the last stages of the struggle, wants Barney confined under arrest with the threat of court martial, but cooler heads prevail; Barney becomes the ranking officer.

Mars proves to be inhospitable, and they struggle to survive with their decreased water supply. Earth's correct orbital position for a return trip is one year away. While glumly celebrating their first Christmas on Mars, a sudden snowstorm blows in, allowing them to replenish their water supply. As their launch window arrives, they hear low rumbling sounds, then see rocks falling, and feel the ground shake violently. The ground level shifts during this violent marsquake. Their spaceship is now leaning at a precarious angle and cannot make an emergency blast off. To right the spaceship, the crew uses the rocket engines' powerful thrust to shift the ground under the landing legs. The attempt works and they blast off, the spaceship rising just as the Martian surface completely collapses.

Once in space, Barney and Mahoney reconcile. Impressed with Barney's heroism and leadership while on Mars, Mahoney concludes that pursuing Barney's court martial for his father's death would only impugn the general's reputation, tarnishing what previously had been a spotless military career. Better is the fiction that "the man who conquered space" died in the line of duty, sacrificing himself to save his crew.

####Conquest of the Planet of the Apes####
Following a North American pandemic from a space-borne disease that wiped out all dogs and cats in 1983, the government has become a series of Schutzstaffel-patterned police states that took apes as pets before establishing a culture based on ape slave labor. These events were foretold in 1973 as testimony by two chimpanzee scientists, Cornelius and Zira, before they were killed. Widely believed to be dead, their baby was secretly raised by the circus owner Armando as a young horseback rider. In 1991, now fully grown and named Caesar, the ape is brought to one of the cities to distribute flyers for Armando's circus. During their trip, Armando advises Caesar not to speak in public for fear of his life.

After seeing a gorilla being beaten and drugged, Caesar shouts out "Lousy human bastards!". Armando diffuses the ensuing commotion by taking responsibility for the exclamation. He plans to turn himself in to the authorities and bluff his way out while instructing Caesar to hide among the apes for safety. Caesar obeys and hides in a cage of orangutans, finding himself being trained for slavery through violent conditioning. He is then sold at auction to Governor Breck. Caesar is then put to work by Breck's chief aide MacDonald, whose African American heritage allows him to sympathize with the apes to the disgust of his boss.

Meanwhile, Armando is interrogated by Inspector Kolp, who suspects his "circus ape" is the child of Cornelius and Zira. Kolp's assistant puts Armando under a machine that psychologically forces people to be truthful. Realizing he cannot fight the machine, Armando jumps through a window and dies. When Caesar learns of Armando's death, he loses faith in human kindness. In secret, he begins teaching the apes combat and has them gather weapons.

Unfortunately, Breck eventually learns that Caesar is the ape the police are hunting. Meanwhile, Caesar realizes MacDonald is an ally to the apes' cause and reveals himself to him. MacDonald understands Caesar's intent to depose Breck, but expresses his doubts about the revolution's effectiveness. Caesar is later captured by Breck's men and is electrically tortured into speaking. Hearing him speak, Breck orders Caesar to be killed. With MacDonald's help, the heroes manage to trick Breck into believing Caesar died. Once Breck leaves, Caesar kills his torturer and escapes.

To build his numbers, Caesar takes over Ape Management. While setting the city on fire, Caesar and the rest of the apes proceed to the command center, killing most of the riot police that attempt to stop them in the process. After succeeding in this, Caesar has Breck marched out to be executed. MacDonald pleads with Caesar not to succumb to brutality and be merciful to the former masters. Caesar ignores him, deciding to dedicate his life to man's downfall.

In the theatrical cut, as the apes raise their rifles to beat Breck to death, Caesar's girlfriend Lisa voices her objection, shouting "No!". She is the first ape to speak other than Caesar. Caesar reconsiders and orders the apes to lower their weapons, deciding that, after their recent victory, they can afford to be humane.

####Control (2004 film)####
Lee Ray Oliver is a death row inmate who is given a lethal injection before a room of witnesses. He awakes in the morgue to find that he had only been administered saline and anaesthetic. A neuropharmacologist, Dr. Copeland, tells him that he has a choice: either agree to be a human subject for an experimental drug trial with potentially serious or fatal side effects, or he will receive a truly lethal injection.

Oliver opts for the drug trial, where he is administered a "calming" medicine on a daily basis and tested extensively to see if his sociopathic tendencies decrease. Twice, Oliver fakes being relaxed to lull the guards and scientists into a false sense of ease, whereupon he attempts an escape. First he asks for a smoke, second he talks to  Dr. Copeland.

Over time, the medicine and psychological counseling do appear to lower his sociopathology, as measured physiologically and emotionally, and Oliver undergoes "phase two" of the procedure, where he is reintroduced into society, with a false identity and a changed appearance (tattoos and scars removed, dress and hairstyle change).

Oliver is under constant surveillance, but manages to escape supervision to attempt to befriend and assist a helpless bystander who was victimized during one of Oliver's past crimes. Oliver feels deep remorse now for shooting the man, which left him mentally disabled. Though the man no longer recognizes Oliver, he cheerfully accepts the friendly offerings. However his brother, who is the man's caretaker, recognizes Oliver and seeks revenge. Simultaneously, Oliver is also being sought by the Russian mafia, who seek revenge upon Oliver for killing the nephew of a mafia boss.

Though Oliver makes progress in establishing a new life, getting a job, keeping his anger and violence in check, and developing a relationship with a female co-worker (Teresa), his past comes to haunt him, and he is captured by the victim's brother, who kills one of Oliver's pharmaceutical supervisors while kidnapping Oliver. This ultimately leads to a hit squad being sent out to put Oliver down. The doctor believes that Oliver was making progress and did not kill the man, so secretly tries to help him, entangling himself in the situation. They eventually learn that Oliver's progress was not due to the medicine after all, as he was in a control group which received a placebo, but instead was due to the counseling and Oliver's willingness to change. They try to flee the state, but are caught by the hit squad, which kills Oliver. Then the cops arrive and stop the squad from killing Dr. Copeland.

The film ends with Dr. Copeland as a counselor in a youth center.

####The Cosmic Man####
The United States Air Force (USAF) tracks an unidentified flying object (UFO) as it passes over the village of Oak Ridge, California at a speed of 180,000&nbsp;mph (292,500&nbsp;km/h). The UFO, a white sphere, comes to rest in Stone Canyon outside of Oak Ridge, floating approximately 6 feet (1.8 metres) above the ground. Both USAF Col. Matthews (Paul Langton) and Dr. Karl Sorenson (Bennett), an astrophysist at the nearby Pacific Institute of Technology (PIT), are called to the scene.

Kathy Grant (Greene), a widow whose fighter pilot husband died in the Korean War, runs a tourist lodge near the canyon and also arrives. With her is her young son Ken (Scotty Morrow), who uses a wheelchair due to an unnamed terminal disease. Ken looks up to Sorenson as a hero, not Matthews.

That night the sphere emits a beam of light from which emerges a dark, translucent humanoid figure. The figure goes to Sorenson's lab at PIT, where it solves a problem with a "proton chamber" that Sorenson and Dr. Richie (Walter Maslow) have been unable to solve. This alerts both men to the fact that they are dealing with an extraterrestrial of much greater intelligence than they. Matthews, however, sees the alien as dangerous and therefore something - or someone - to be captured. He orders the sphere taken to the airbase. But even with heavy equipment at their disposal, the USAF crew is unable to move the sphere, even though it is attached to nothing.

An oddly-dressed stranger - wearing thick eyeglasses, a fedora and an anorak - arrives at the lodge and requests a room. Kathy finds him peculiar but lets him stay after he implies that he is a scientist who knows Sorenson. Kathy assumes that he's Dr. Steinholz (Hal Torey), whom USAF Gen. Knowland (Herbert Lytton) has called in to help with the sphere.

Sorenson performs an experiment in which he shoots an electrical charge into the sphere. It creates a huge "sonic blast." Sorenson says that with greater power the sphere could create a sonic blast large enough to "wipe a city off the face of the earth." This worries Matthews, who rhetorically asks Sorenson what would happen if a similar sphere landed in Russia and the Russians figured out its secrets before the US; Sorenson admits that that would be very bad indeed.

That night at the lodge, the Cosmic Man appears in translucent humanoid form before the scientists and military personnel. He says that Sorenson and other scientists are the "hope for the world" now that Earthlings are about to start space exploration. But he declares that humans must adopt a new philosophy and learn to live with others unlike themselves before they can become successful members of interplanetary society. He says that he will leave in the morning. Knowland demands to know more about his plans and, when the Cosmic Man walks away without answering, the airmen open fire on him. It has no effect.

Later, Kathy hears voices coming from Ken's room. She finds Ken playing chess with the odd scientist who has been staying at the lodge. She doesn't know that he is the Cosmic Man disguised as a human. He politely thanks Ken for teaching him to play chess, agrees that they've had fun, then leaves. But he later returns and secretly takes Ken with him.

By this time, Steinholz has aimed powerful electromagnets at the sphere. The Cosmic Man appears with Ken in his arms, lays him gently on the ground and tells the assembled USAF personnel and scientists to stay well away from the sphere as he leaves. Steinholz fires the electromagnets and the Cosmic Man falls to the ground, apparently dead. But then Ken suddenly stands up and walks to Kathy - no longer paralyzed, he has been cured by the Cosmic Man. Everyone smiles at the sight.

The sphere emits another beam of light, absorbing the body of the Cosmic Man, and flies away. With tears in his eyes, Ken says "Goodbye, Cosmic Man." Sorenson replies confidently "He'll be back" and he, Kathy and Ken rejoin the others.

####The Creation of the Humanoids####

In the 23rd century, Earth is suffering the aftereffects of a nuclear war that destroyed 92 percent of humanity. Lingering radiation has caused the birth rate to fall to 1.4 percent, below replacement level, and the population continues to decline. A robotic labor force maintains a high standard of living for the survivors and the humanoids of the title are an advanced type of robot created to directly serve and otherwise work closely with human beings. These humanoids are built with artificial, ultra-logical personalities and they appear human except for their blue-gray "synthe-skin", metallic eyes and lack of hair. The humanoids periodically visit recharging stations they call "temples" where they also exchange all information acquired since their last visit with a central computer they call "the father-mother".

A human organization named The Order of Flesh and Blood is opposed to the humanoids, which the members disparagingly refer to as "clickers". The Order believes the humanoids are planning to take over the world and are a threat to the very survival of the human race. The Order does not stop at illegal violent actions, including bombings. At one meeting, its members are alarmed to learn of the existence of a humanoid which has been made externally indistinguishable from a human and which has killed a man. They demand that all existing humanoids be disassembled or downgraded to a strictly utilitarian machine-like form.

Scientist Dr. Raven (Doolittle) has developed a technique called a "thalamic transplant", which transfers the memories and personality of a recently deceased human into a robotic replica of that person. The human-humanoid hybrids that result awake from the process unaware of their own transformation, although their human personalities are shut off between 4 and 5 A.M., when they report back to the humanoids at the robot temple. As Dr. Raven describes the operation, "We draw off everything that makes a man peculiar to himself. His learning, his memory: these, inter-reacting, constitute his personality, his philosophy, capability and attitude. The human brain is merely the vault in which the man is stored." With the help of Dr. Raven, the humanoids are secretly replacing humans who recently died with these replicas.

One of the leaders of the Order of Flesh and Blood, Captain Kenneth Cragis (Megowan), meets Maxine, and although she is opposed to the Order they both fall in love. In the end they discover that they, too, are advanced humanoid replicas with the minds of deceased persons. Ironically, the "real" Maxine had died in a bomb attack which the Order intended to harm only robots. Dr. Raven, a once-human replica himself, explains to Cragis and Maxine that not only are they practically immortal in their new forms they can also be the first humanoids upgraded to the highest possible level: after a minor alteration, they will be able to procreate.

Finally, Dr. Raven breaks the fourth wall, looks directly into the camera and tells the viewer, "Of course, the operation was a success ... or "you" wouldn't be here."

####Cyborg 2087####

In 2087, free thought is illegal and the population is controlled by governments. A small band of free thinkers sends Garth A7, a cyborg, back in time to 1966 to prevent Professor Sigmund Marx from revealing his new discovery. The discovery will eventually make mind control possible and create a tyranny in Garth's time. He is pursued by two "Tracers" (also cyborgs) sent by the government to stop him.

Garth enlists the help of Dr. Sharon Mason, Marx's assistant. He gets her to summon her friend, medical doctor Zeller to operate on him to remove a homing device used by the Tracers to track him. The local sheriff also becomes involved.

Garth defeats the Tracers and convinces Professor Marx to keep his discovery secret. Then, with his future wiped out as a result, Garth ceases to exist; the people who helped him do not even remember him.

####Damnation Alley (film)####
First Lieutenant Jake Tanner (Jan-Michael Vincent) shares ICBM silo duty at a US Air Force missile base in the Californian desert with senior officer Major Eugene "Sam" Denton (George Peppard).  While signing in for their work shift in the underground base, Denton notifies Tanner he is requesting that command reassign him, since he feels Tanner is not a suitable team member for their two-man crew.  While passing through base security checks, Denton and Tanner talk with Sergeant Tom Keegan (Paul Winfield).

While Denton and Tanner are running procedure drills, the US detects incoming nuclear missiles from the Soviet Union.  After confirmation that an actual attack is in-progress, Tanner and Denton launch part of the retaliatory strike. Although interceptor missiles destroy around 40% of the incoming Soviet missiles, the United States is hit hard, particularly major cities.

Two years later, the Earth has been tilted off its axis by the nuclear detonations of World War III; radiation has mutated giant scorpions, the planet is wracked by massive storms, and the sky is in a perpetual aurora borealis-like state. Tanner has resigned his commission and has been scouting nearby Barstow, California, while Keegan (who has also left the Air Force), has been painting as an artist in one of the base's out-buildings where they have been relegated to. Mutated giant scorpions menace the area, requiring Tanner and Keegan to continually shoot the creatures with high-powered rifles. After returning from Barstow with provisions, Tanner gives an airman a stack of "Playboy" magazines he located.  Later, the airman falls asleep in a bunk and drops a lit cigarette, starting a small fire, which causes an explosion.  The explosions kill most of its inhabitants including the base commander, General Landers (Murray Hamilton). Keegan and Tanner are unscathed, as are Denton and Lieutenant Tom Perry (Kip Niven), who were outside, on their way to the bunker.

Denton has been considering going to Albany, New York, to find the source of the lone radio transmission that has been aired weekly since the war. He and the remaining others set out in two Air Force Landmasters—giant, 12-wheeled armored personnel carriers fitted with rocket launchers, flame throwers and cannons, capable of climbing 60-degree inclines, and operating in water. They must cross Damnation Alley, considered "the path of least resistance" between intense radiation areas.

Along their journey, one of the Landmasters becomes disabled in a storm (which also kills Perry), and they encounter mutated "killer cockroaches" in the ruins of Salt Lake City that trap and eat Keegan alive. Denton and Tanner also pick up two survivors: a woman in Las Vegas, Janice (Dominique Sanda), and a teenage boy, Billy (Jackie Earle Haley), discovered in an abandoned house in the High Plains. They fight a band of gun-toting mountain men they encounter in the ruins of a gas station in the Midwest. Denton uses the Landmaster's rocket launchers to destroy the gas station and the madmen's buildings.

As they continue their journey, the Landmaster develops a problem with its drivetrain near Detroit. Denton comments that it was "designed to use spare truck parts", semi-trucks in particular. In Detroit they enter a large wrecking yard in search of the needed parts. A large, hemisphere-wide storm comes upon the group and they take shelter in their vehicle just as a megatsunami washes them away. After the storm passes, they are adrift in a large body of water and it appears that the Earth has returned to its normal axis as the sky is clear.

Using the Landmaster's amphibious capability, they reach land. As they are making repairs, they hear a radio broadcast of music and an attempt to reach survivors. After Denton makes radio contact, Tanner and Billy set out on Tanner's dirt bike to locate the source of the broadcast. In the final scene, they reach a surprisingly intact suburb of Albany, New York, where they are greeted by its inhabitants.

####Dark Metropolis####
Mankind has lost a 300-year war against a genetically enhanced race that man created, abused and finally tortured. Now the descendants of that race - known as the 'Ghen' control the planet Earth from advanced underground cities.

####Darkdrive####
In the near future, a new law sends criminals to a virtual reality prison built by a shadowy corporation called Zircon based in Seattle. Steven Falcon, the designer of the system, realizes the dangers of it being overloaded and of hackers who try to break in and steal files only to have the prisoners try to break out via that method. When Falcon threatens to quit the operation he becomes marked for murder by his employers who force him to enter the virtual reality/afterlife to find the source of the danger of the system crashing.

####The Day Mars Invaded Earth####
NASA successfully lands a robotic surveyor on Mars. The rover begins to explore, but after just a few minutes it is completely destroyed by what appears to be a high energy surge. At exactly the same instant back at mission control, Dr. Dave Fielding (Kent Taylor), in charge of the project, suddenly feels oddly disconnected and not himself; he shakes it off and then goes to face the crowd of expectant reporters. Right after he leaves, his exact body double is sitting at his desk.

Dave then leaves for a vacation and flies to California to be with his family; they are now staying in the guest house of a lavish mansion belonging to his wife's family. His children, 10 year-old Rocky (Gregg Shank) and teen Judi (Betty Beall), are very happy to see him, but it is very clear that his marriage to Claire (Marie Windsor) is in trouble because of the time he must spend away from his family. At first, the tensions between Dave and Claire make it less obvious that they are seeing their body doubles walking around the estate. Eventually, though, as things turn strange, the whole family suspects something is wrong and pulls together. They soon discover they are trapped, unable to leave the isolated estate due to a malfunctioning main gate.

Dave then encounters his body double in the mansion's main house. The duplicate Dave informs him that Mars is inhabited and that all Martians are beings without any physical bodies, an energy-like intelligence. They traveled to Earth via the Martian probe's high-gain, two-way radio transmitter, destroying the robotic rover in the process. Now on Earth, the Martians plan to replace key humans with duplicates to quash any further Earth missions to Mars. Since Dave's wife and children would likely recognize a duplicate, they had to be replaced, too. Family friend Web (William Mims) comes by later and finally gets the main gate open, but on his way back, the Martian-Dave reduces Web to ash.

Later, "Dave and his family" appear to get into a car and leave the estate, with a Martian-Web duplicate behind the wheel. As they drive past the estate's empty swimming pool, "five" distinct body shapes of piled ash can be seen on the concrete bottom. The pool's water jets then turn on, slowly washing the ashes away.

The acting of the cast is at least competent, but the cast has to contend with a plodding script with only very slight intermittent action.
This movie is highly unlikely to scare any viewers due to long interludes of non-action, and non-excitement. The Drs. smoke cigarettes and
Dr. Spencer manages to wrestle open the front gate, and Marie Windsor does a fine job of backing the Plymouth station wagon up the winding
driveway. These are the highlights of the whole movie -- Dr. Fielding wields a gun at a Martian but doesn't shoot it; the boyfriend dies in
a car crash into a tree while going down the driveway, and he wasn't even drunk; nothing happens to the Martians, they go on their way;
the movie ends--guess they ran over budget and out of film stock.

####The Day the Earth Stood Still (2008 film)####

In 1928, a solitary mountaineer exploring the Karakoram mountains in India encounters a glowing sphere. He loses consciousness and when he wakes, the sphere has gone and there is a scar on his hand where a sample of his DNA has been taken.

In the present day, a rapidly moving object is detected beyond Jupiter's orbit and forecast to impact Manhattan. It is moving at 30,000 kilometers per second, fast enough that its impact would destroy all life on Earth. The United States government hastily assembles a group of scientists, including Helen Benson and her friend Michael Granier, to develop a survival plan.

The scientists travel to New York City to await the object's collision with Earth. As it nears the planet, the object slows down just before impact. Revealed to be a large spherical spaceship, it lands gently in Central Park and is quickly surrounded by NYPD and heavily armed US military forces. An alien emerges and Helen moves forward to greet it; but amidst the confusion, the alien is shot. A gigantic humanoid robot appears and temporarily disables everything in the vicinity by emitting a high-pitched noise before the wounded alien voices the command "Klaatu barada nikto" to shut down the robot's defensive response.

The alien's exterior is found to be a bioengineered space suit, composed of placenta-like material covering a human-like being. After the bullet is extracted during surgery, the being quickly ages into Klaatu, who looks like the mountaineer from 1928. Klaatu informs Secretary of Defense Regina Jackson that he is a representative of a group of civilizations, sent to talk to the leaders of Earth about saving the planet. When Jackson instead sends him to be interrogated, Klaatu escapes and reconnects with Helen and her stepson, Jacob, telling them that he must finish his mission to "save the Earth".

The presence of the sphere and other smaller spheres that begin to appear all over the world cause widespread panic. The military launches a drone attack on the Central Park sphere, but is thwarted by the robot. The military takes a weapons-free approach, cautiously enclosing the robot, soon nicknamed "GORT" (for Genetically Organized Robotic Technology), and transporting it to the Mount Weather underground facility in Virginia.

Klaatu meets with another alien, Mr. Wu, who has lived on Earth for 70 years. Wu tells Klaatu that he has found the human race to be destructive, stubborn, and unwilling to change, which matches Klaatu's experiences. Klaatu orders the smaller spheres to collect specimens of animal species, to preserve them for later reintroduction to the Earth. He clarifies for Helen that he means to save the Earth from destruction by humankind. When a New Jersey State Trooper attempts to take them into custody, Klaatu kills him and then promptly revives the officer, telling Helen and Jacob that he did this to simply disarm an obstacle to his mission.

Hoping to persuade Klaatu to change his mind about humanity, Helen takes him to the home of Professor Barnhardt, a Nobel Prize winner. They discuss how Klaatu's race went through drastic, collaborative evolution to prevent the demise of their planet. Barnhardt pleads that Earth is at the same precipice, and humanity should be given a chance to understand that it too must change. While the adults are talking, Jacob calls the authorities to come and arrest Klaatu.

While the military is examining GORT, the robot transforms into a swarm of winged insect-like nano-machines that self-replicate as they consume every man-made object in their path. The swarm soon devours the entire facility, emerging above ground to continue feeding.

The military captures Helen while Klaatu and Jacob escape on foot. As they travel, Klaatu learns more about humanity through Jacob. When Jacob contacts Helen and arranges to meet at his father's grave, the Secretary sends her to try to change Klaatu's mind. At the grave, Jacob is heartbroken that Klaatu cannot resurrect his long-dead father. As Helen and Jacob have a tear-filled reunion, Klaatu's cumulative observations of humans convince him to stop the swarm.

Granier drives them to the Central Park sphere, but the swarm has reached massive proportions. Klaatu trudges through the swarm to the sphere, touching it moments before his own body is consumed. The sphere deactivates the swarm, saving humanity, but at the expense of electrical activity on Earth, per Klaatu's warning that there will be "a price to the [human] way of life."<!-- It is not possible to say whether or not steam power would still work, nor winches and other mechanical apparatus. Similarly, it is not possible to say whether the pulse was electromechanical or other. Too much OR --> The giant sphere leaves the Earth.<!-- Do not put any personal interpretation of the film's title here -->

####The Day the Earth Stood Still####
When a flying saucer lands in Washington, D.C., the United States Army quickly surrounds it. A humanoid emerges and announces that he comes "in peace and with good will". When he unexpectedly opens a small device, he is shot and wounded by a nervous soldier. A tall robot emerges from the saucer and quickly disintegrates the Army's weapons. The alien orders the robot, Gort, to desist. He explains that the now-broken device was a gift for the President of the United States that would have enabled him "to study life on the other planets".

The alien, Klaatu, is taken to Walter Reed Army Hospital. After surgery, he uses a salve to quickly heal his wound. The Army is unable to enter the saucer (its entrance is closed, and the ship is made of an impervious metal); Gort stands outside, silent and unmoving.

Klaatu tells the President's secretary, Mr. Harley, that he has a message that must be delivered to all the world's leaders simultaneously. Harley tells him that in the current world situation this is impossible. Klaatu proposes that he will spend time among ordinary humans to better understand their "unreasoning suspicions and attitudes". Harley rejects the proposal, and Klaatu remains locked in his hospital room.

Klaatu is able to escape and stays in a boarding house using the name Mr. Carpenter ("Maj. John Carpenter"), adopted from a dry cleaner's suit tag. Among the residents are young widow Helen Benson and her son Bobby. Klaatu becomes a mentor to Bobby, while Helen's suitor, Tom Stevens, becomes jealous of the stranger.

The boy takes Klaatu on a tour of the city, including a visit to his father's grave in Arlington National Cemetery; Klaatu learns that most of the dead are soldiers killed in wars. They also visit the Lincoln Memorial. Klaatu asks Bobby, "Who is the greatest living person?" Bobby suggests Professor Barnhardt. They visit the scientist's home, but he is out; Klaatu is able to enter and sees that Barnhardt's blackboard is covered with equations (attempting to solve the Three Body Problem). Klaatu adds to them and, after being discovered by the housekeeper, leaves his contact information.

That evening, a government agent escorts Klaatu to Barnhardt. Klaatu tells Barnhardt that the people of other planets are concerned about Earth's possible aggression, now that humanity has developed rockets and rudimentary atomic power. He states that if his message is ignored, Earth could be "eliminated". Barnhardt agrees to gather scientists from around the world at the saucer; he also suggests that Klaatu peacefully demonstrate the power he represents beforehand.

Klaatu returns to his spaceship, unaware that Bobby is following him. Bobby watches as Gort knocks out two soldiers so Klaatu can reenter the saucer. Bobby runs home and tells Helen. She does not believe him, but Tom is suspicious.

The next day, for half an hour, starting at 12 noon (east coast time), all electrical equipment on Earth ceases to function, except for essential services, such as hospitals and aircraft in flight.

Klaatu learns that Bobby watched him the previous night. He visits Helen at work, reveals his purpose on Earth, and asks that she not betray him. Helen asks Tom to keep Klaatu's identity secret, but, he refuses to listen, already in the process of alerting the military.

Helen and Klaatu rush to Barnhardt's home. They hope that Barnhardt can hide Klaatu until the meeting that evening. Klaatu tells Helen that if anything should happen to him, she must go to Gort and say: "Klaatu barada nikto".

The Army tracks them in their taxi. Klaatu is shot and killed, and his body is moved to a nearby police station cell. Helen rushes to the saucer and speaks Klaatu's phrase. Hearing the words, Gort retrieves Klaatu's body, and revives him inside the saucer, though Klaatu tells Helen that his revival is only temporary.

Klaatu tells Barnhardt's assembled scientists that an interplanetary organization has created a police force of invincible robots like Gort. "In matters of aggression, we have given them absolute power over us". Klaatu concludes, "Your choice is simple: join us and live in peace, or pursue your present course and face obliteration. We shall be waiting for your answer". Klaatu and Gort depart in the saucer.

####The Day the Earth Stopped####
The film centers on soldier Josh Myron, as six hundred and sixty six gigantic extraterrestrial robots land on Earth.

As the robots are landing, two alien humanoids also arrive, one male and one female.  Both are eventually captured by the military who try to communicate with them.  Eventually, the female starts talking to Myron and reveals that she can read his mind along with others.  Myron is told that the entire human race is a threat to the rest of the galaxy and unless she is shown the value of humanity by sunset, the planet will be destroyed.

Attempts to communicate with the robots fail as they vaporize anyone that tries to attack them or even fires a rifle to get their attention.  An effort is made to destroy the robots using Sidewinder Missiles, delivered by YF-22s.  The missiles are ineffective and the attacking planes are destroyed.

The woman, who reveals that her name in its closest English translation is Skye, also displays the ability to harness surrounding energy to protect herself.  However, after using that, the military officer in charge of the "mission" starts to use a Taser on Skye, leading to Myron violently intervening and being thrown off the project.  He goes AWOL but, as he is driving away, he is telepathically contacted by Skye and he returns to rescue her.  The effort proves successful and starts a citywide search for him and Skye.

The male alien also manages to escape as the robots begin a systemic attack on the planet, first with an electromagnetic pulse (which aids in Josh rescuing Skye).  It is also discovered that the robots are slowing down the Earth's core and stopping the planet's rotation.

An effort is made to destroy one of the robots with a nuclear explosion, sacrificing 9000 inhabitants of a small island.  When the bomb goes off, the machine emerges unharmed and Skye feels the pain of the people dying and almost passes out.  Josh takes the time to comfort Skye before the military finds them again.  Myron and Skye come across a married couple and put the wife in the back of a 4x4, as she is in labour.  The husband delivers the child but is unaware of a complication until he realizes that his wife has stopped breathing.  Myron hands the infant to Skye and tells her that if she wants to know the value of humanity, "you're staring at it".  Myron and the husband try to revive the wife but are unsuccessful.  Myron realizes that the wife is dead and stops applying CPR.  Skye, despite her earlier statement that she would not get involved, uses her powers to bring the wife back to life.

Skye, now convinced of the value of humanity, needs to get to the closest robot to return home and end the invasion, but, before they can get to the robot, Skye is shot by the military.  Skye and Myron are taken back to the base where Skye is treated for the injury, as the planet's rotation stops and a major global earthquake hits.

The commander realizes that Myron was right and helps Myron move Skye to a vehicle.  As they leave, they are chased by the psychologist, who is convinced that keeping Skye will prevent the robots from attacking further.

At the feet of the robot, Myron is shot by the psychologist; the robot vaporizes him.  The alien male arrives, sees both Skye and Myron possibly dead and uses his own powers to revive both.  Skye, in gratitude, hugs Myron before both of the aliens are beamed aboard.  The invasion ends and the robots depart, leaving the planet intact but with major damage.

####The Day Time Ended####
A small family relocates to the Sonoran Desert to be closer to the grandparents of the family. Though there are news reports of a spectacular triple supernova and the young granddaughter has seen a glowing alien construction behind the barn, the family is at ease until, one night, a UFO soars overhead and appears to land in the nearby hills. Apparently, the triple supernova has opened a rift in space and time.
The family finds that their electrical appliances no longer function, and the youngest daughter of the family has a telepathic encounter with an extraterrestrial. The grandmother, too, sees one of these diminutive creatures beckoning to her, but it soon vanishes.

The grandfather, while trying to start the car, sees that a strange animal is approaching from the distance. The grandfather goes back inside and informs the family that something is coming; before long, a variety of horrific, alien monsters (all of these creatures being of a reptilian or amphibious nature) are proceeding to slaughter each other outside the house; some are trying to break in and kill the family. After a few moments, the UFO appears again and teleports the creatures to a different place. The family take this opportunity to escape to the barn. The family become separated from one another and each hides until sunrise, where they find that they have been launched thousands of years into the future. They meet up with the daughter, who had become separated from the family during one of the time-warp events. She tells them that everything is going to be fine now. After walking across the desert, they finally see a domed city in the distance, and decide to seek refuge there. The grandfather proclaims that there must be a purpose to all of this. The family walks towards the city.

####Deadland####
####Deadly Weapon####
A teenager named Zeke, who fantasizes that he is from outer space, is bullied by some other teens at school and deals with a drunken father, runaway mother and a sister who delights in being nasty to him. He finds a lost experimental military weapon in a river near his home. The weapon fires anti-gravity X-rays. Zeke uses it for self-defense as a means to deal with his persecutors, both at school and at home.

An army team led by the overzealous Lt. Dalton, responsible for originally losing the weapon, is sent to recover the weapon before its unstable reactor overloads and causes a meltdown. The situation degenerates into a siege.

####Deceit (1989 film)####

An unknown man commits suicide by drinking bleach. After his death, his body is then possessed, and he claims his name to be an alien sex fiend named Bailey. About a month later, a group, including Wilma (Diane Defoe), on their way to Las Vegas for a wedding stop to pick up Bailey who claims his car has broken down.

Bailey (Norbert Weisser) now claims to be an alien who destroys polluted worlds. He shoots the others in the car and kidnaps Eve (Samantha Phillips) deciding to postpone his plans to destroy Earth until they are able to have sexual relations.

Eve thinks Bailey may be an escaped mental patient, and this seems likely when Bailey's "therapist" Brick (Scott Paulin) shows up, but he also claims to be an alien sent to Earth to destroy all humans and cleanse the planet.

Both Brick and Bailey attempt to seduce Eve, but are unsuccessful. Just before the Earth is destroyed, an intergalactic police officer, now possessing Wilma, uses a powerful object (The Cube) to grant the Earthlings a stay of execution.  Eve shoots Bailey and Brick. The fate of the world now rests in Eve's hands.

####Deep Impact (film)####

In May 1998, at a star party, teenage amateur astronomer Leo Beiderman observes an unidentified object in the night sky. He sends a picture to astronomer Dr. Marcus Wolf, who realizes it is a comet on collision course with Earth. Wolf dies in a car crash while racing to raise the alarm.

A year later, journalist Jenny Lerner investigates Secretary of the Treasury Alan Rittenhouse over his connection with "Ellie", whom she assumes to be a mistress but is confused when she finds him and his family loading a boat with large amounts of food and other survival gear. She is apprehended by the FBI and taken to meet President Tom Beck, who persuades her not to share the story in return for a prominent role in the press conference he will arrange. She subsequently discovers that "Ellie" is actually an acronym — ELE — which stands for "extinction-level event". Two days later, Beck announces that the comet Wolf–Beiderman is on course to impact the Earth in roughly one year and could cause humanity's extinction. He reveals that the United States and Russia have been constructing the "Messiah" in orbit, a spacecraft to transport a team to alter the comet's path with nuclear bombs.

The "Messiah" launches a short time later with a crew of five American astronauts and one Russian cosmonaut. They land on the comet's surface and drill the nuclear bombs deep beneath its surface, but the comet shifts into the sunlight. Consequently, one astronaut is blinded and another propelled into space by an explosive release of gas. The remaining crew escape the comet and detonate the bombs.

Rather than deflect the comet, the bombs split it in two. Beck announces the mission's failure in a television address, and that both pieces — the larger now named Wolf and the smaller named Beiderman — are still headed for Earth. Martial law is imposed and a lottery selects 800,000 Americans to join 200,000 pre-selected individuals in underground shelters in the Meramec Caverns in Missouri. Lerner is pre-selected, as are the Beiderman family as gratitude for discovering the comet, though Leo's girlfriend Sarah and her family are not selected. Leo marries Sarah in a vain attempt to save her family; while this saves Sarah, her family are still not selected, and she refuses to go without them.

A last-ditch effort to deflect the comets with ICBMs fails. Upon arrival at the shelter, Leo eschews his safety and leaves to find Sarah. He reaches her on the freeway and takes her and her baby brother to high ground while her parents remain. Lerner gives up her seat on the evacuation helicopter to a colleague and her young daughter, and instead travels to the beach where she reconciles with her estranged father.

The Beiderman fragment hits the Atlantic Ocean near Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, creating a megatsunami that destroys much of the East Coast of the United States reaching the Ohio River Valley, also hitting Europe and Africa, resulting in millions of fatalities, including Sarah’s parents, Lerner and her father. Leo, Sarah, and her baby brother survive after making it to the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains. The crew of "Messiah" decides to sacrifice themselves to destroy the larger Wolf fragment by flying deep inside it and detonating their remaining nuclear bombs. They say goodbye to their loved ones and execute their plan. Wolf is blown into smaller pieces which burn up harmlessly in the Earth's atmosphere.

After the waters recede, President Beck speaks to a large crowd at an under-construction replacement United States Capitol, encouraging them to remember those lost as they begin to rebuild.

####Destination Inner Space####
US Navy Commander Wayne (Brady) has arrived at Topside, the support vessel for the civilian Institute of Marine Sciences' Sealab, a facility on the ocean floor. He's there because an unidentified object has been spotted circling Sealab. Cmdr. Wayne rides a diving bell down to Sealab, where he meets its director, Dr. LaSaltier (Merrill) and marine biologist Dr. Rene Peron (North).

During Cmdr. Wayne's arrival, a minisub carrying diver Hugh Maddox (Mike Road) and photographer Sandra Welles (Wende Wagner) is approaching the submerged object so as to get a clear photo of it. The object looks like a huge flying saucer, some 50 feet in diameter.

Inside the saucer, a little triangular door opens and a robotic arm pushes a cylinder encased in ice into the saucer's central area. A heat lamp hangs overhead. The ice begins to melt.

Hugh and Sandra take Cmdr. Wayne to the saucer. Inside, the Commander suggests it's a fully-automated spaceship "sent here to study our oceans." He estimates the saucer  has about two dozen additional triangular doors. They take the mysterious cylinder back to Sealab.

The Sealab scientists can't determine what the cylinder is, but Rene is alarmed that it's rapidly growing. When it has doubled in size, it begins emitting a piercing ultrasonic sound. Lab technician Tex (William Thourbly) runs from the lab but dies from the effects of the sound. Cmdr. Wayne and Hugh arrive and find the lab filled with vapor. The don  gasmasks and go inside with fire extinguishers to disperse the vapor, only to discover that the cylinder has burst. They are immediately attacked by the monster that has hatched from the cylinder. Hugh and Cmd. Wayne fight their way out of the lab. The monster escapes into the ocean. It swims up to Topside, kills two crewmen, wrecks the ship's radio, the diving bell controls, and the air supply Topside pumps down to Sealab. Without the air, Sealab's staff can survive for only 12 hours.

The monster re-enters Sealab. Cmdr. Wayne tussles with it, but it escapes again, back into the ocean. Dr. James (John Howard) finds that the monster carries an unidentifiable disease. The Commander worries that large numbers of people will die if more monsters carrying "the plague" emerge. He decides to kill the monster and destroy the saucer.

Cmdr. Wayne lures the monster into a trap he's built - several spearguns set to fire when it triggers tripwires. The monster walks into the trap and is wounded, but again escapes. The Commander, Hugh, and Ellis (Richard Niles) pursue it. They subdue the monster, take it back to Sealab, and sedate it so it can be taken to the Marine Institute for study.

Hugh and Cmdr. Wayne go to Topside for dynamite to destroy the saucer, then return to Sealab for additional supplies. Meanwhile, inside the saucer, a second triangular door opens and another cylinder is pushed out.

Cmdr. Wayne, Sandra, and Hugh head back to the saucer. Before they can get there, the monster escapes yet again, and swims toward the saucer. it arrives just as the three humans are setting dynamite charges. The monster attacks. Hugh holds it off, allowing Cmdr. Wayne and Sandra to flee, then dies a heroic death in the explosion that obliterates the saucer and kills the monster.

When all equipment is fully operational, Cmdr. Wayne prepares to leave. But before he does, he says that LaSaltier is to give a verbal report about the incident to the president. LaSaltier says he has nothing to report as they've learned nothing with the monster dead and the saucer destroyed. But the Commander sets him straight, telling him they've proven life exists on other planets and that we must learn how to communicate with extraterrestrials. LaSaltier agrees and says that is what he will tell the president.

####Destination Marfa####
Four friends on their way home from a Texas cookoff weekend stop at a gas station, where they encounter a fortune teller. They ultimately decide to make a last stop in Marfa, Texas, in the hopes of viewing the strange Marfa Lights.

####The Destructors (film)####


####Doctor Satan's Robot####
Governor Bronson (Charles Trowbridge), who raised Bob Wayne (Robert Wilcox) from childhood after the death of his parents, is killed at the hands of mad scientist Doctor Satan (Edward Ciannelli). Before he dies, Bronson confides to Wayne a secret about his father who had been an outlaw in the Old West, who fought injustice while wearing a chainmail cowl and leaving small coiled copper snakes as his calling card.

Following his guardian's death, Wayne decides to adopt his father's thirst for justice and wear his Copperhead mask. Doctor Satan, meanwhile, requires only a remote control device invented by Professor Scott (C. Montague Shaw) to complete his army of killer robots and gain all the power and riches he desires. Knowing that he has an enemy, Satan uses the threat of killing the Professor's daughter, Lois (Ella Neal) to keep the Cooperhead from disrupting his plans.

The Copperhead attempts to protect the Professor and his daughter and stymies the efforts of Doctor Satan and his gang. In his fight with the criminal mastermind, the Copperhead uses the doctor's own diabolical device to defeat Doctor Satan.

####Doom (film)####
In 2026, a wormhole portal, the Ark, to an ancient city on Mars is discovered deep below the Nevada desert. Twenty years later, the 85 personnel at the Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC) research facility on Mars are attacked by an unknown assailant. Following a distress call sent by Dr. Carmack, a squad of eight marines are sent to the research facility. The team includes squad leader Sgt. Asher "Sarge" Mahonin, "Duke", "Goat", "Destroyer", Portman, "Mac", "Kid", and John "Reaper" Grimm. They are sent on a search-and-destroy mission to Mars, with UAC only concerned with the retrieval of computer data from their anthropology, archeology, and genetics experiments.

The team uses the Ark to reach Mars, ordering the Earth site on lockdown. Arriving on Mars, they are met by UAC employee "Pinky". Reaper finds his twin sister, Dr. Sam Grimm, and escorts her to retrieve the data. He learns that a dig site, where their parents were accidentally killed years earlier, was reopened and ancient skeletons of a humanoid race genetically enhanced with an artificial 24th chromosome pair were discovered.

While searching for survivors in the facility, the marines find a traumatized and injured Dr. Carmack and escort him to the medical lab for treatment, but he later disappears. The marines shoot at an unknown creature in the genetics lab that leads them down into the facility's sewer, where it attacks and kills Goat. They kill the creature and take it to the medical lab, where Sam performs an autopsy and discovers that its organs are human. She and Duke witness Goat resurrecting and killing himself by smashing his head against a reinforced window. The two are attacked by a creature which they soon deduce is a mutated Dr. Carmack.

The squad methodically tracks down and destroys several of the creatures, though Mac, Destroyer, and Portman die in the process. An angered Sarge kills the mutated Dr. Carmack. Sam, Reaper, and Sarge learn that UAC was experimenting on humans using the extra Martian Chromosome (C24) harvested from the remains of the ancient skeletons, but the mutants got loose, leading to the outbreak. Sam and Reaper try to convince Sarge that the creatures are humans from the facility, mutated by the C24 serum and that not all of those infected will fully transform into the creatures. Sam hypothesizes that some of those injected with C24 will develop superhuman abilities but retain their humanity, while others with a predisposition for violent or psychotic behavior will become creatures, a pattern she believes also happened with the Martians, who built the Ark to escape.

Some creatures use the Ark to reach Earth, where they slaughter or mutate the research staff. The marines, Sam, and Pinky follow, and Sarge orders the squad to sanitize the entire facility. When Kid informs Sarge that he found, but refuses to kill, a group of survivors, Sarge executes Kid for insubordination, leading to a standoff with an armed Pinky. The group is suddenly attacked by creatures who kill Duke and drag Sarge and Pinky away. Reaper is wounded by a ricocheting bullet. To prevent him from bleeding to death, Sam injects her brother with the C24 serum.

Reaper regains consciousness and finds his wounds have healed and that Sam has gone missing. Using his new C24 superhuman abilities, he fights his way through the facility, even battling a mutated and monstrous Pinky before finding an unconscious Sam with Sarge, who has become infected and has killed the group of survivors Kid had previously found. Reaper and Sarge battle, both of them enhanced with superhuman powers. Reaper is able to gain the upper hand and throws Sarge through the Ark back to Mars along with a grenade, which destroys Sarge and the Mars facility. Reaper then carries his unconscious sister into the elevator and rides back up to the ground level in Nevada.

####Doomsday Machine (film)####
thu
A spy (Essie Lin Chia) discovers that the Chinese government has created a doomsday device (the "key" to which, "only Chairman Mao has") capable of destroying the Earth and it will be activated in 72 hours. Soon after, "Astra" – a two-year return mission to Venus by the United States Space Program – has its time of launch speeded up and half of the male flight crew are replaced by women shortly before take-off, including one Russian. Shortly before blastoff military alerts are put into effect.

After leaving Earth, the seven crew members of "Astra" deduce that they have been put together to restart the human race should the Chinese activate their device. Shortly after this, the device goes off and Earth is destroyed.

As Astra continues to Venus, the crew realizes that a safe landing on Venus is impossible unless the crew is reduced to three. One of the crew members tries to rape another, at which point she accidentally gets them both blown out of an airlock.

Two more crew-members—Danny and Major Bronski—are lost as they head out to repair a fault with the spaceship. However, they notice another spacecraft nearby and jump to it. The second craft proves to be a lost Soviet ship that disappeared piloted by a close friend of the Russian crew member.  Though its pilot is dead, Danny and Bronski successfully power up the Soviet ship. Before the two ships can rendezvous, contact with "Astra" is lost.

A disembodied voice cuts in, claiming to be the collective consciousness of the Venusian population. The voice informs the survivors (whom the Venusians refer to as the "Last of Man") in the Russian ship that "Astra" no longer exists (presumably destroyed somehow by the telepathic Venusians), and that no humans (due to their "self-destructive" potential) will be allowed to reach Venus. It gives a cryptic message regarding the prospect of starting new life in a "very strange and very great" place, somewhere far "beyond the rim of the universe," before the ship suddenly blasts off, apparently by the power of the Venusians, and the movie abruptly concludes.

####Dragonfly (2002 film)####
Joe and Emily Darrow are doctors in a Chicago hospital. Seven months pregnant Emily travels to Venezuela to help natives in the Amazon area. She dies when a bus is hit by a landslide and plunges into the river below. Her body is never found by the local authorities.

Without taking time to grieve Joe returns to work. One night he is awakened by his wife's dragonfly paper weight that falls and rolls across the room. His wife always had a passion for dragonflies and even had a birthmark on her shoulder which resembled a dragonfly. Joe starts visiting Emily's patients at the pediatric oncology unit in the hospital. One of his wife's patients is brought in unconscious. Joe hears the child calling his name and follows the staff who are trying to revive him without success - the child's heart flatlines. As Joe approaches the child, suddenly the heart begins beating again.

The following afternoon Joe returns to the child who asks him if he is "Emily's Joe" and tells him she sent him back to tell Joe something. All over the room are drawings of a curvy cross, but the boy doesn't know what the symbol means. The boy tells about his near death experience, that he saw a light, and a woman showing him an image of Joe, and that the cross symbol was what he saw at the end of the rainbow.  Later, while passing by another child's room, Joe sees the same drawing. That boy immediately knows who Joe is and tells him that he must "go to the rainbow".

When Joe arrives at home, his parrot mysteriously goes into a rage, breaking a pot and making the same wavy cross symbol drawn in the spilled soil on the floor. Joe spots a dragonfly flying outside the window, and briefly sees Emily reaching for him outside that same window. Joe's neighbour, Miriam Belmont, tries to talk him back into reality. Instead, he goes to Sister Madeline, a controversial nun who investigated near-death experiences. Sister Madeline advises Joe that Emily is indeed trying to contact him from the other side.

The breaking point occurs at the hospital when Joe is alone with a clinically dead patient. Joe hears his wife speaking through the patient, calling his name, but no one believes him. He decides to sell his home and go on vacation. While packing away his wife's belongings, the lightbulb in the room burns out. When he returns with a new bulb, all the belongings he had packed away are suddenly back in their original places. He enters his kitchen where a map has blown open, showing the mysterious curvy cross symbol at several places. He learns from a friend that the wiggly cross is the map symbol for a waterfall. Joe remembers and finds a photo of his wife posing in front of a waterfall with a rainbow behind her.

He takes a trip to the South American area where his wife died. Joe's pilot, Victor, takes him to the victims' graves near a tribe village. Joe shows the photo of his wife and asks his native guides if they know where his wife is buried. They start arguing with each other that he should be brought to the village. Joe's attention then shifts to the village and he runs off to it. He comes to a cliff and sees the bus far down below in the water. Joe jumps into the river and enters the semi-flooded bus, causing the bus to shift and become completely submerged. Joe is trapped inside but calms down when a bright glow fills the bus and his wife appears to him, reaching for his hand. The events of her final hours flash before him, showing she survived the initial accident and was pulled to safety by nearby Yanomami villagers. He is then suddenly rescued from the bus by Victor.

Joe runs to the village and is surrounded by angry native men with weapons. He holds up a photo of his wife. A native woman tells him they couldn't save her body but they saved her soul. Perplexed, he follows her into one of the huts, and inside is a female infant in a basket, the child his wife was carrying, who survived the accident. The woman shows him a birthmark on the child in the shape of a dragonfly. As he embraces his daughter he realizes what his wife was trying to tell him.

The film finishes with Joe playing with his daughter, now a toddler with wavy blonde hair, the very image of his wife.

####Earth vs. the Flying Saucers####
Scientist Dr. Russell Marvin and his new bride Carol are driving to work when a flying saucer appears overhead. With no proof of the encounter other than a tape recording of the ship's sound, Dr. Marvin is hesitant to notify his superiors. He is in charge of Project Skyhook, an American space program that has already launched ten research satellites into orbit. General Hanley, Carol's father, informs Marvin that many of the satellites have since fallen back to Earth. Marvin admits that he has lost contact with all of them and privately suspects alien involvement. The Marvins then witness the 11th falling from the sky shortly after launch.

When a saucer lands at Skyhook the next day, a group of aliens in metallic suits exit, and the infantry guards open fire, killing one alien, while others and the saucer are protected by a force field. The aliens proceed to kill everyone at the facility but the Marvins; General Hanley is captured and taken away in the saucer. Too late, Russell discovers and decodes a message on his tape recorder: the aliens wanted to meet with Dr. Marvin and landed in peace at Skyhook for that purpose but they were instead met with violence.

Marvin contacts the aliens by radio and sneaks away to meet them, followed closely by Carol and Major Huglin. They and a pursuing motorcycle patrol officer are taken aboard a saucer, where the aliens have extracted knowledge directly from the general's brain. The aliens explain that they are the last of their species, having fled from their destroyed solar system. They are extremely aged and are kept alive only by their protective garments. They have shot down all the launched satellites, fearing them as weapons. As proof of their power, the aliens give Dr. Marvin the coordinates of a naval destroyer that opened fire on them, and which they have since destroyed. Horrified by the cold, unempathic nature of the aliens, Carol begins to break down, and the patrol officer, despite an attempt by Marvin to stop him, pulls his revolver and fires on the aliens; the aliens subject him to the same mind control process as General Hanley. The aliens state that they will eventually return Hanley and the patrol officer. As the interaction continues, Carol becomes increasingly irrational, while Marvin tries to remain calm. Major Huglin and the Marvins are released with the message that the aliens want to meet with the world's leaders in 56 days in Washington, D.C. to negotiate an occupation of Earth.

Dr. Marvin's later observations lead to the discovery that the aliens' protective suits are made of solidified electricity and grant them enhanced auditory perception. Marvin develops a counter-weapon against their flying saucers, which he later successfully tests against a single saucer. As they escape, the aliens jettison Hanley and the patrol officer, who fall to their deaths. Groups of alien saucers then attack Washington, Paris, London, and Moscow, and resistance by conventional weapons is futile. But they are destroyed by Dr. Marvin's sonic weapon. The defenders also discover that the aliens can be easily killed by small arms gunfire when they are outside the force fields of their saucers. Upon repelling the attack and no further threats anticipated, Project Skyhook is reestablished with Dr. Marvin once again placed in charge.

####Einstein's God Model (film)####
####Embers (2015 film)####
####Encounter (2018 film)####
####End of the World (1977 film)####
####Epoch (film)####
Four billion years ago, before life had developed on Earth, a cosmic object fell in the seas of our planet. In modern times in the mountains of Bhutan, a huge artifact makes its way to the surface, producing a powerful electromagnetic pulse causing worldwide blackouts.

Alarmed by the electromagnetic phenomenon and under request of the government of Bhutan, the American NSA launches a military and scientific reconnaissance operation on site, led by Dr. K.C. Czaban (Stephanie Niznik) with the technical assistance of terminally ill engineer Mason Rand (David Keith), picked up on the Mexican border in time for the mission. The team finds the artifact suspended in the air and object of veneration from the natives, who call it the Torus and consider it a gift from the gods with extraordinary healing properties.

The US team enters the Torus, but an air strike by the Chinese Army against the artifact prompts an unexpected response from the object, which destroys two Chinese military planes and kidnaps a US soldier. Unsuccessful diplomatic negotiations escalate the  tension in the area between Chinese and US armed forces, while inside the Torus the scientific team goes to the core of the huge machine. They discover how ancient the artifact is and speculate it could have been the spark of life on Earth, as well as the cause of multiple extinctions in the course of the eras. Fomented by NSA agent Allen Lysander (Ryan O'Neal), conflict explodes between the troops of the two factions and the Torus reacts, blanketing the planet with a thick cloud cover, evidently starting the process for a new mass extinction.

By Presidential order, the US soldiers plant a nuclear bomb inside the Torus to destroy it, and Czaban and Rand unsuccessfully try to deactivate the device to keep it from detonating. However, the Torus absorbs the blast and, seemingly satisfied by the extreme sacrifice attempted by the two scientists, ceases its actions, sheds its external shell and, in the form of an energy sphere, leaves Earth. Four months later, Rand, now cured after his exposure to Torus, receives from Czaban the news that she is pregnant, despite being sterile before their encounter with the alien artifact.

####Epoch: Evolution####
Engineer Mason Rand (David Keith) returns to help determine if the mysterious monolith he had studied earlier can be used to help save Earth from destruction, or if it is in fact causing it.<ref name= rt />

####Escape from the Planet of the Apes####
Escaping Earth prior to its destruction, the chimpanzees Cornelius, Zira and Dr. Milo salvage and repair Taylor's spaceship. The shock wave of Earth's destruction sends the ship through a time warp that brings the apes to 1973 Earth. Most specifically, the Pacific coast of the United States.

The apes are transported to the Los Angeles Zoo, under the observation of two friendly scientists, Dr. Stephanie Branton and Dr. Lewis Dixon. During their stay there, Dr. Milo is killed by a zoo gorilla.

A Presidential Commission is formed to investigate the return of Taylor's spaceship and its inhabitants. During their interrogation, Cornelius and Zira deny knowing Taylor. They reveal, however, that they came from the future and escaped Earth when a war broke out. They are welcomed as guests of the government. The apes secretly explain to Stephanie and Lewis how humans are treated in the future, and tell them about Earth's destruction. The scientists are shocked but still sympathetic, and advise the couple to keep this information secret until they can gauge the potential reaction of their hosts.

Lavished with gifts and media attention, the apes become celebrities. They come to the attention of the President's Science Advisor Dr. Otto Hasslein, who discovers Zira is pregnant. Fearing for the future of the human race, Hasslein insists that he simply wants to know how apes became dominant over men. Cornelius reveals that the human race will cause its own downfall and that Earth's destruction is caused by a weapon made by humans. Zira explains that the gorillas started the war, but the chimpanzees had nothing to do with it. Hasslein suspects that the apes are not speaking the whole truth.

During the original hearing, Zira accidentally reveals that she used to dissect humans. Hasslein orders Lewis to administer a truth serum to her while Cornelius is confined elsewhere. As a result of the serum, Hasslein learns details about Zira's experimentation on humans along with her knowledge of Taylor.

Zira joins Cornelius in confinement while Hasslein takes his findings to the President, who reluctantly abides by the council's ruling to have her pregnancy be terminated and that both apes be sterilized. In their chambers, Zira and Cornelius fear for their lives. When an orderly arrives to offer the apes food, his jokes about their unborn child make Cornelius lose his temper. He knocks the orderly to the floor, before escaping with Zira. They assume the orderly is merely knocked out, but he is actually dead. Hasslein uses the tragedy in support of his claim that the apes are a threat. He calls for their execution, but is ordered by the President to bring them in alive, unwilling to endorse capital punishment until due process has been served.

Branton and Dixon help the apes escape, taking them to a circus run by Señor Armando, where an ape named Heloise has just given birth. Zira gives birth to a son and names him Milo, in honor of their deceased friend. Knowing that Zira's labor was imminent, Hasslein orders a search of all circuses and zoos, and Armando insists the apes leave for their safety. Lewis arranges for the apes to hide out the Los Angeles harbor's shipyard for a while. He gives Cornelius a pistol as the couple does not want to be taken alive.

Tracking the apes to the shipping yard, Hasslein mortally wounds Zira and kills the infant she is holding. Cornelius shoots down Hasslein, and then dies at the hands of a sniper. Zira tosses the dead baby over the side and crawls to die with her husband, witnessed by a grieving Lewis and Stephanie.

It is revealed that Zira switched babies with Heloise before leaving the circus. Armando is aware of this and prepares to leave for Florida. Milo then begins to talk.

####Eve of Destruction (miniseries)####
####Eyeborgs####

The movie opens by explaining current events such as the passing of the "Freedom of Observation Act" and the subsequent implementation of ODIN (Optical Defense Intelligence Network), including the development of a new type of mobile camera drone, the eponymous "eyeborg". The system is administered by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

Sankur (Dale Girard) is making a deal to purchase a shotgun while an eyeborg watches the transaction. The eyeborg is discovered and the deal is aborted. Homeland Security agents rush in to find that Sankur has escaped and the other party in the gun deal is dead.

Brandon (Devin McGee), the lead singer of a band known as "Painful Daze", is in a car with a girl. "G-Man" (Danny Trejo), approaches them to deliver a rare bag of banned North Carolina tobacco.  After G-Man leaves, the two begin smoking the tobacco - but are interrupted and killed by a large six-armed eyeborg.

With Brandon missing, Jarett (Luke Eberl) becomes the lead singer of "Painful Daze" at the next night's gig.  As he sings, eyeborgs search for Sankur, who has entered the building.  They signal an alarm that causes a panic, during which Sankur tries to shoot Jarett.  An  eyeborg blocks the shot. Jarett falls, unharmed, but breaks his guitar. It is revealed that Jarett is the President's nephew.

Sankur is captured and taken to the regional DHS office.  During interrogation, Sankur is shown video footage of his earlier gun deal, showing him to be the dealer's killer.  Sankur protests his innocence despite the apparent proof of the video.  Agent Gunner (Adrian Paul) gets a message to report to the front desk, leaves the room with his partner, and locks the door. Four eyeborg security cameras detach to attack Sankur, but the door opens, allowing him to escape.  A  foot chase occurs, stranding him on level six. When the elevator he is waiting for opens, a large eyeborg emerges and pushes him over the banister, causing him to fall to his death.

Jarett and Ronni (Julie Horner) are making out when the news is announced that the President has declared war on the (fictional) country of Zimbekistan, which catches Ronni's attention. She shows Jarett a bank error where a large sum of money has been deposited in their account from Zimbekistan.

Back at the regional DHS office, Agent Gunner comes under fire over security footage showing that he failed to lock Sankur's door. Meanwhile, Barbara (Megan Blake) (newswoman) and Eric (Juan-Carlos Guzman) (cameraman), who earlier witnessed Sankur's death, find a video file in Sankur's apartment. Meanwhile, Jarett goes to G-Man, whose face is finally revealed, and asks him to fix his guitar. During their meeting they discuss the eyeborgs, which Jarett approves of and which G-Man doesn't trust.

Eric analyzes the video from Sankur's apartment and calls Barbara to tell her the video file is fake. En route in a news van to give her the evidence, he is attacked by a new type of eyeborg. It force feeds him a bottle of whiskey and causes him to crash, attempting to make it look like the result of drunk driving. While he manages to get out of the news van alive, he is immolated by a flamethrower carried by the eyeborg that attacked him. Barbara is notified of the wreck and, when told that he was drunk at the time of the accident, she doesn't believe it. Shortly thereafter, G-Man is attacked and killed by a large eyeborg. Jarett arrives and is momentarily pinned to the ground by the escaping eyeborg, after which he finds G-Man's body. He tells Gunner what he saw, but video of the alley shows a human leaving G-Man's place rather than an eyeborg.

Growing increasingly suspicious, Gunner asks Jarett to meet him and tells him that he believes that Jarett did see an eyeborg leaving the scene of G-Man's murder, and that he suspects that the system is compromised and that the President may be in danger. He asks Jarett for help in warning the President, since Jarett has been asked to play at the President's campaign debate. While Jarett is out, Ronni is attacked by two eyeborgs and manages to call him, but the call is cut short. When he arrives, he finds her dead, with her wrists slit as though she has committed suicide.

Jim Bradley (John S. Rushton) and Gunner go back to G-Man's to see if they missed anything. They find a secret room containing plans for weapon-carrying eyeborgs, plus a malleable C4 variant which was formed into the pickguard on Jarett's guitar. They try to leave to warn the President that Jarett's guitar is a bomb but Jim is killed by an eyeborg, which Gunner manages to disable. Gunner gets to the Millennium Center, where the Presidential debate is being held. But when he arrives on stage, there is no President or crowd present. He realizes that the President is dead, and that ODIN is in control and has been using Presidential power to declare war so that it can spread.

A group of warbots shows up and begins firing on the DHS agents. Barbara is run into by her new camera bot, but she tells Gunner where he can find Jarett. Gunner and his team manage to free Jarett, whose likeness is being scanned for use by ODIN, just as two newer and more deadly eyeborgs attack and kill all but Jarett, Gunner, and Barbara. As Gunner is leaving with Jarett, Barbara gives him the only video evidence of what happened at the Millennium Center. Too injured to leave herself, she shoots the eyeborgs to distract them before shooting the guitar, detonating it and the barrels of flammable liquid in the basement, destroying the Millennium Center.

With the explosion of the Millennium Center broadcast on national television, the President is considered dead. The news shows the vice-president being sworn in, and in an address to the public declares Jarett a traitor and shows video of him detonating his guitar in the debates, killing the President and all in attendance. Gunner goes to see Jarett, who is alive and disguised as an altar boy, and tells him that Barbara's video has gone viral and even ODIN cannot stop it.

The movie ends with Gunner shooting an eyeborg in an alley and declaring he does not need their eyes anymore.

####Fateful Findings####
Eight-year-olds Dylan and Leah discover a magical black stone in the woods. With Leah's family's departure imminent, the two vow to always be friends but never see each other again.

Decades later, Dylan, now a successful novelist, is struck by a car but miraculously survives the accident. In the hospital, he rapidly heals from his injuries, which he credits to the power of the stone. Returning home, Dylan reveals to his wife, Emily, that he has not been working on a new book but has instead been using his hacking abilities to uncover "the most secret government and corporate secrets", which he plans to publish in an exposé. His commitment to the project is tested by his wife's descent into drug addiction and eventual overdose, as well as the constant sexual attention paid to him by his best friend Jim's underage daughter. Later, Jim himself is murdered by his wife for valuing taking care of his car over listening to her issues. Distraught, she stages his death as a suicide. Later Dylan finds Jim's body and can't believe he committed suicide but is unable to help him.

Plagued by disturbing dreams of a mystical book, Dylan begins seeing a psychologist, who helps him unearth repressed childhood memories. Doing so causes Dylan to realize that the doctor who attended to him during his recovery from the car accident was an adult Leah and the two are reunited, quickly beginning a sexual relationship. Learning about Dylan's plans to publish the exposé, a mysterious assailant kidnaps Leah. Using psychic powers granted to him by the stone, Dylan rescues her by teleporting into the kidnapper's compound. He then travels to the desert to find the book he sees in his dream. Going to visit his psychologist one last time, Dylan learns that she is, in fact, a ghost.

Dylan publishes his book, hosting a press conference in front of the National Archives Building divulging "the most secret government and corporate secrets". Various congresspeople and corporate executives react to the speech by committing mass suicide to applause from the audience. A camouflaged sniper attempts to assassinate him only for Dylan to kill him by reflecting the bullet using his psychic powers. His mission complete, Dylan and Leah return to the place where they found the stone in the woods as children.

####Final (film)####
Bill wakes up from a coma in a psychiatric hospital, suffering from delusions that he is about to be executed by a futuristic society which has unfrozen him from a past experiment in cryonics and tissue regeneration. Under the care of Ann, his psychiatrist, he starts remembering trauma from his pre-coma life, including the death of his father, a breakup with his fiancee, and a drunken binge while driving. He begins to recover from his mental breakdown, yet his delusions do not cease. As the truth unravels, he discovers that his delusions may be closer to the truth than the reality he was told of by his caregivers.

####Final Days of Planet Earth####

Three years ago, a team of astronaut miners completed a daring space expedition. They embarked on their journey home, but by the time the craft returned to Earth, their commander had gone mad—taking a terrible secret with him to a heavily guarded state asylum for the insane. Today, archeologist Lloyd Walker and entomologist Marianne Winters are among a select group of people who are questioning a possible link between the tragic space mission, the mystery of the commander’s madness, and a series of bizarre disappearances and strange accidents in San Francisco. The answer arrives when they stumble upon an underground colony of insect-like creatures harvesting human bodies for survival.

Liz Quinlan, now an employee of the mayor’s office, knows all too well the secret of the aliens, given that she is their Earth Queen. The city's highest representatives are her consorts. With police and government officials taken over by aliens masquerading as humans, Lloyd and Marianne realize they can trust no one, except William Phillips, the one man who knows the ultimate goal of the aliens. He also holds the mysterious key to their defeat—it's in his blood. He is the commander himself—the sole mission survivor being held as prisoner. Lloyd and Marianne must find him before he becomes a victim of an unearthly experiment.

####Five (1951 film)####
Roseanne Rogers trudges from place to place, searching for another living human being. A "Mountain News" headline reports a scientist's warning that detonating a new type of atomic bomb could cause the extinction of humanity.

Roseanne eventually makes her way to her aunt's isolated hillside house and faints when she finds Michael already living there. At first, she is too numb to speak and slow to recover. She later resists Michael's attempted sexual assault, revealing that she is married and also pregnant.

Two more survivors arrive, attracted by the smoke coming from the house's chimney. Oliver P. Barnstaple is an elderly bank clerk who is in denial about his situation; he believes that he is simply on vacation. Since the atomic disaster, he has been taken care of by Charles, a thoughtful and affable African American. They both survived because they were accidentally locked in a bank vault when the disaster happened. Roseanne was in a hospital's lead-lined X-ray room, while Michael was in an elevator in New York City's Empire State Building.

Barnstaple sickens, but seems to recover and then insists on going to the beach. There, they drag a man named Eric out of the ocean. A mountain climber, he was stranded on Mount Everest by a blizzard during the atomic disaster. He was flying back to the United States when his aircraft ran out of fuel just short of land. Meanwhile, Barnstaple dies peacefully.

Eric quickly sows discord among the group. He theorizes that they are somehow immune to the radiation and wants to find and gather together other survivors. Michael, however, is skeptical and warns that radiation will be the most concentrated in the cities Eric wants to search.

The newcomer later reveals himself to be a racist; he can barely stand living with Charles. When Charles objects, he and Eric fight, stopping only when Roseanne goes into labor; she gives birth to a boy, delivered by Michael. Afterwards, while the others work to make a better life, Eric goes off by himself. Maliciously, he drives their jeep through the group's cultivated field, destroying part of their crops. Michael orders Eric to leave, but Eric produces a pistol and announces that he will leave only when he is ready.

Later one night, Eric tells Roseanne that he is going to the city (Oak Ridge). Wanting to discover her husband's fate, Roseanne agrees to go with him, as he had hoped; he insists that she not tell Michael. After stealing supplies, Eric is stopped by a suspicious Charles; in the ensuing struggle, he stabs Charles in the back, killing him.

Once they reach the city, Eric begins looting, while Roseanne goes to her husband's office and then to a nearby hospital's waiting room; there she discovers her husband's remains. She wants to return to Michael, but Eric refuses to let her go. When they struggle, his shirt is torn open, revealing signs of advanced radiation poisoning. In despair, he runs away.

Roseanne begins the long walk back to the house, but along the way, her baby dies. Michael, who has been searching for her, eventually finds her. After burying her son, they return to the house. Michael silently resumes cultivating the soil, and Roseanne joins him.

####Flash Gordon: The Greatest Adventure of All####
During World War II, Flash Gordon is on a mission in Warsaw, which is suffering heavy bombing. He arrives too late and his contact, who is near death, says he has a message for Doctor Zarkov, but can utter only one word, "Mongo", before he dies.

Flash travels to find Zarkov and meets feisty 'girl reporter'<!-- [sic] --> Dale Arden, also on her way to interview him. They are bombarded by meteorites, which damage their plane and force them to bail out. On the ground they flee lava flows, and find a secret cave and a rocket ship. Doctor Zarkov, having no time for introductions, ushers them on board and they blast off. When safely in flight, he explains he is on a mission to the wandering planet Mongo to convince their leaders to call off their attack on Earth (by force if necessary, using a gravity weapon of his own invention). For their part, Flash and Dale agree to help him.

Before they can make contact, hostile ships shoot them down, and they make a crash landing. After barely surviving attack by two clashing dinosaurs, they are captured by animalistic savages and dragged to a giant idol to be sacrificed. They barely escape to the outside, where they meet the virtuous King Thun of the Lion Men and help him escape Amazonian hunters led by Princess Aura.

Flash and company are forced into war against Mongo's leader and Aura's father, the maniacal Emperor Ming, and his robotic army of metal men. To help their cause, the heroes lead an alliance formed from freedom fighters led by King Thun, as well as Prince Barin of Arboria; and King Vultan of the Hawkmen.

Thun explains Ming is too clever to conquer Earth by force alone, and that he would use the Mongo strategy of 'separate and attack'<!-- may not be precisely the correct wording --> which Flash notes is the same as the Earth expression "divide and conquer". Ming reveals he has secretly given military technology to Hitler, leader of the Nazi Party.

Ming sends his Mole Men to attack the kingdom of Arboria by destroying the roots of the trees of the forested land which provides camouflage. Thanks to Zarkov warning Flash and friends, the attack is repulsed and Flash and his allies use the captured drilling machine to attack Ming's palace. They are overwhelmed by Ming's forces, but Prince Barin insists on his right to a trial by strength. With a flaming sword and ion blaster in hand, Ming duels against Flash in an epic fight. However, Ming turns out only to be a android imposter and the real Ming escapes.

With only seconds before Mongo collides with Earth, Flash damages the planet's drive mechanism on Zarkov's advice. With that move making Mongo safely go off course with no way to return to Earth, Flash tells Dale that they have nothing to regret since they are together on a new home of wondrous adventure.

####Flashes (film)####
####The Flight That Disappeared####
Trans-Coast Airways Flight 60 leaves Los Angeles on a flight to Washington, D.C. Three scientists on board the transcontinental flight have been summoned to a classified meeting at the Pentagon, concerning the "beta bomb", a new bomb design and the rocket to deliver it. Mid-flight, the Douglas DC-6 airliner mysteriously begins to climb, to over 10 miles high. Back at the airline headquarters, Operations Manager Hank Norton (John Bryant) tries to keep in contact with the flight, but is sure that nothing can be done to save the passengers and crew.

The engines stop, and passengers pass out due to lack of oxygen. Crazed passenger Walter Cooper (Harvey Stephens) who has tried to convince others that using the secret bomb is essential, jumps from the aircraft. Three scientists, Dr. Carl Morris (Dayton Lummis), Tom Endicott (Craig Hill) and Marcia Paxton (Paula Raymond) find themselves in a limbo state, watches stopped and no heartbeats.

Meeting the Examiner (Gregory Morton), the trio of scientists leave the aircraft for judgement from those of the future. They find themselves in a moment between time, which explains the stopped watches and lack of heartbeats. They are shown, in brief, a future where their bomb has been used and having destroyed the atmosphere, has killed off all life on the planet. They are judged guilty and sentenced to live in the moment with no time for the rest of eternity, where the future and past meet.

After the Sage (Addison Richards) objects that the scientists from the past cannot be judged by a future society, they are returned to the present on this technicality. The passengers have no memory of any of the actions on board before passing out, with the exception of Endicott, the rocket engineer and Dr. Morris. Marcia Paxton only thinks that the event was a dream. Walter Cooper reappears, and the flight crew do not seem to have any recall of the emergency that took place on the flight.

When Captain Hank Norton (John Bryant) calls for landing instructions, the airline office is perplexed. When their airliner lands at Washington, the passengers and crew discover that they are 24 hours late, thus proving Endicott's fantastic story of the trial and judgement. Dr. Morris, the nuclear bomb designer, disposes of his notebook containing the formulas and designs for the bomb.

####Flight to Mars (film)####


The first expedition to Mars, led by physicist Dr. Lane, includes Professor Jackson, engineer and spaceship designer Jim Barker, and his assistant Carol Stafford, who earned her degree in "spaceship engineering" in only three years. Journalist Steve Abbott, a decorated (Korean) war correspondent, is also aboard to cover the historic mission.

They lose contact with Earth when a meteor storm disables both their landing gear and radio. The crew are forced to decide whether to crash-land on Mars or turn back for Earth. They decide to proceed with the mission, knowing they may never return.

After they safely crash-land, the crew are met by five Martians at one of their above-ground structures. Looking human and being able to communicate in English, Ikron, the president of their planetary council, explains that they learned Earth languages from broadcasts. Their own efforts, however, to transmit messages to Earth have only resulted in faint, unintelligible signals being received.

The Earth crew are taken to a vast underground city, which is being sustained by life-support systems fueled by a (fictional) mineral called Corium. There the crew meet Tillamar, a past president and now a trusted council advisor. Terris, a young female Martian, shows them to their room and serves the group automated meals. The expedition members are amazed at the high level of Martian technology around them and soon ask the council for help with repairing their spaceship.

Discreetly, Ikron reveals that their Corium supply is nearly depleted. He recommends that the Earthmen's spaceship, once repaired, be reproduced, thereby creating a fleet that can evacuate the Martians to Earth, thereby saving the Martian species, but also enslaving the Terran species. The council votes to adopt Ikron's plan, while also deciding to hold the Earthmen captive during the repair process. Alita, a leading Martian scientist, is placed in charge of the spaceship. Ikron uses Terris as a spy to keep himself informed of the progress. Meanwhile, Jim begins to suspect the Martians' motives and, with Alita's help, fakes an explosion aboard, slowing the repairs. When Jim later announces their blast-off for Earth is set for the next day, he surprises everyone with the news that Tillamar and Alita will be joining them, with Alita to become his wife.

Terris reports their suspicious behavior to Ikron, leading to Alita and Tillimar being held, but Jim foils Ikron's plan to seize the repaired ship after freeing both. After a brief confrontation with Martian guards at the spaceship's gangway, the three make it aboard safely, and the expedition departs for Earth.

####The Flying Saucer####
American Intelligence officials learn that Soviet spies have begun exploring a remote region of the Alaskan Territory in search of answers to the worldwide reports of "flying saucers". A wealthy American playboy, Mike Trent (Mikel Conrad), who was raised in that remote region, is recruited by intelligence officer Hank Thorn (Russell Hicks) to assist a Secret Service agent in exploring that area to discover what the Soviets may have found.

To his pleasant surprise, Mike discovers the agent is an attractive woman named Vee Langley (Pat Garrison). They set off together and slowly become mutually attracted to each other. Their cover story is that Mike is suffering from a nervous breakdown and she is his private nurse. At Mike's family's wilderness lodge, they are met by a foreign-accented caretaker named Hans (Hantz von Teuffen), new to the job.

Mike is very skeptical of the flying saucer reports until he spots one flying over the lodge. Assorted complications ensue until Mike and Vee finally discover that Hans is one of the Soviet agents who is trying to acquire the flying saucer. It turns out that the saucer is an invention of American scientist Dr. Lawton (Roy Engel). But Turner (Denver Pyle), Lawton's assistant, is a communist sympathizer and has other ideas: he tries to make a deal to sell the saucer to the Soviets for one million dollars.

Mike's trip to Juneau to see old friends, including Matt Mitchell (Frank Darrien), is ill-advised. When Vee tracks him down, he is in the company of a bar girl, named Nanette (Virginia Hewitt). Matt gets mixed up with the Soviet agents who are trying to obtain control of the saucer. When he tries to strike a bargain with ring leader Colonel Marikoff (Lester Sharpe), at the spy's headquarters, Matt is knocked unconscious.

He is able to escape and seeks out Mike, but they are attacked by the Soviets, who kill Matt. Before he dies, however, Matt reveals the location of the saucer: Twin Lakes. Mike rents an aircraft and flies to where the saucer is hidden at an isolated cabin. After flying back to his lodge, he tries to find Vee, who has tried to spirit Lawton away. The trio are captured by the turncoat Taylor and a group of Soviet agents. The Soviets lead their prisoners through a secret tunnel hidden under the glacier. An avalanche begins and wipes them out. Mike, Vee, and Lawton escape the tunnel just in time to see Turner fly off in the saucer. It suddenly explodes in mid-air, due to a time bomb that Lawton  had planted on board for such an eventuality. Their mission now accomplished, Mike and Vee embrace and kiss.

####The Frame (film)####
####From the Earth to the Moon (film)####
Shortly after the end of the American Civil War, munitions producer Victor Barbicane announces that he has invented a new explosive, "Power X", which he claims is much more powerful than any previously devised. Metallurgist Stuyvesant Nicholl scoffs at Barbicane's claims and offers a wager of $100,000 ($Inflation|US|0.1|1869|r=1|fmt=c million today) that it cannot destroy "his" invention, the hardest metal in existence. Barbicane stages a demonstration using a puny cannon and demolishes Nicholl's material (and a portion of the countryside).

President Ulysses S. Grant requests that Barbicane cease development of his invention after several nervous countries warn that continuing work on Power X could be considered an act of war. Barbicane agrees, but when he discovers that pieces of Nicholl's metal retrieved from the demonstration have somehow been converted into an extremely strong yet lightweight ceramic, he cannot resist the chance to construct a spaceship to travel to the Moon. He recruits Nicholl to help build the ship. Meanwhile, Nicholl's daughter Virginia and Barbicane's assistant Ben Sharpe are attracted to each other.

After completing the spaceship, Barbicane, Nicholl, and Sharpe board it and, amid much fanfare, take off. Once they are in outer space, the strongly religious Nicholl reveals that he has sabotaged the vessel, believing that Barbicane has flouted God's laws. When it is discovered that Virginia has stowed away, Nicholl cooperates with Barbicane in a desperate attempt to save her. Sharpe is knocked out, and he and Virginia are placed in the safest compartment of the ship. Barbicane and Nicholl then fire rockets that send the young couple on their way back to Earth, while the two scientists land on the Moon in another section, with no way off. They are able to signal to the young couple that they have reached the Moon safely.

####Future '38####
####Future Fear####
####Future Zone####
####Futuropolis####
####Galaxy Invader####
thu
When a glowing object, (which seems to be a meteor) careens toward the Earth, a young student, David Harmon (Greg Dohler), who sees it, is narrowly missed as it falls into the forest ahead of him. He calls his old high school teacher, Dr. William Tracy (Dick Dyszel), to tell him about this potential UFO landing. A couple of hours later, a young couple hears a noise in their basement and go down to see what it is. As they slowly descend into the basement, they are terrified and wrestled to the ground by a green monster known as the 'Galaxy Invader'. Joe Montague (Richard Ruxton), is angered by his daughter, Carol (Faye Tilles), at breakfast and chases her through the woods with a gun. After encountering the alien and finding the power source to its weapon, the space ball, Frank Custer (Don Leifert), advises Joe to hunt the alien for a reward. The alien is hunted by a gang of locals led by Montague intent on cashing in on the creature. Joe captures the alien and ties it up in his garage. Dr. Tracy and David  break into the garage and set the alien free. As they flee the garage into the woods, Frank shoots Dr. Tracy. The alien returns and shoots Frank, then Joe shoots the alien and takes back the space gun. Frank's wife comes looking for him at Joe's house and following his history of domestic violence, Joe tries to rape her. In the struggle, Joe shoots Frank's wife using the space gun. Joe's family conspire with Michael Smith (Cliff Lambert), Carol's Boyfriend, to set the alien free and return it home. When they steal the weapons from Joe's sleeping hands, he suddenly wakes and pursues the group with a shotgun. Holding the group and gunpoint, when all hope is lost, the alien appears and attacks Joe. Joe kills the alien using the space gun, but it gives enough time for Michael Smith to get the jump on Joe. A fight ensues and ends with Joe's wife, Ethel (Anne Frith), knocking him off a cliff.



####The Gamma People####
####The Ghost of Slumber Mountain####
thu

Most of the full plot is unknown. Author and explorer Jack Holmes (Dawley) tells his two young nephews about an adventure he had in the woodlands around Slumber Mountain, near the Valley of Dreams. Jack and his partner Joe (along with their dog Soxie) find a cabin belonging to the late hermit Mad Dick, who Joe once saw carrying a strange telescope-like instrument. That night at their campsite, Jack imagines a voice calling to him which leads him back to the old hermit's cabin. Jack searches the cabin and finds the instrument. Upon doing so, the ghost of Mad Dick (O'Brien) appears and instructs him to use it to look at the peak of Slumber Mountain.  The device allows him to look back into the past, seeing a "Brontosaurus" followed by a strange small winged bird eating a snake. Two "Triceratops" fight before his eyes, then a "Tyrannosaurus" kills and partially eats one of the  "Triceratops". The triumphant beast notices Jack and begins chasing him. Jack shoots the animal to no avail. Just as the creature is about to pounce upon him, Jack wakes up to find himself next to his still sleeping friend Joe at the campsite. It is then revealed that Jack had dreamed it all. The children then tackle him for thinking up such a good tall tale.
-

####Glen and Randa####
####Godzilla (1998 film)####
An iguana nest is exposed to the fallout of a military nuclear test in French Polynesia. In the South Pacific Ocean, a Japanese cannery vessel is suddenly attacked by a giant creature, with only one fisherman surviving. Dr. Niko "Nick" Tatopoulos, an NRC scientist, is in the Chernobyl exclusion zone researching the effects of radiation on wildlife, but is interrupted by an official from the U.S. State Department. In Tahiti, a mysterious Frenchman questions the traumatized survivor over what he witnessed, who repeatedly replies "Gojira." Nick is sent to Panama and Jamaica to study a trail of wreckage leading to the recovered Japanese ship with massive claw marks on it. Nick identifies skin samples he discovered in the shipwreck as belonging to an unknown species. He dismisses the military's theory of the creature being a living dinosaur, instead deducing it is a mutant created by nuclear testing.

The creature travels to New York City, leaving a path of destruction in its wake. The city is evacuated before the U.S. military, on Nick's advice, lure the creature into revealing itself with a large pile of fish. Their attempt to kill it fails, however, and only causes further damage before it escapes. Nick collects a blood sample, and by performing a pregnancy test, discovers the creature reproduces asexually and so is collecting food for its offspring. Nick also meets up with his ex-girlfriend, Audrey Timmonds, a young aspiring news reporter. While she visits him, she uncovers a classified tape in his provisional military tent concerning the monster's origins and turns it over to the media. She hopes to have her report put on TV as to launch her career, but her boss, Charles Caiman, uses the tape in his report, declaring it his own discovery, and dubs the creature "Godzilla."

As a result, Nick is removed from the operation and he disowns Audrey, before being kidnapped by the mysterious Frenchman Philippe Roaché. Revealing himself as an agent of the French secret service, Philippe explains that he and his colleagues have been closely watching the events to cover up their country's role in the nuclear testing that created Godzilla. Suspecting a nest somewhere in the city, they cooperate with Nick to trace and destroy it. Meanwhile, Godzilla resurfaces and dives into the Hudson River to evade a second attempt by the military to kill it, where it is attacked by Navy submarines. After colliding with torpedoes, Godzilla sinks, believed to be dead by the authorities.

Nick and Philippe's team, followed by Audrey and her cameraman Victor "Animal" Palotti, find the nest inside Madison Square Garden, with over 200 eggs. The eggs begin to hatch and the strike team are attacked by the offspring. Nick, Animal, Audrey and Philippe take refuge in the Garden's broadcast booth and successfully send out a live news-report to alert the military. A prompt response involving an airstrike is initiated as the four escape moments before the Air Force bomb the arena.

Audrey and Nick reconcile, before the adult Godzilla, having survived, emerges from the Garden's ruins. Enraged by the deaths of its brood, it takes its rage out on the four, chasing them across Manhattan. After a taxi chase, they manage to trap Godzilla within the cables of the Brooklyn Bridge, allowing the returning Air Force to shoot it. Godzilla dies from its wounds, and the remaining citizens and authorities celebrate. Audrey tells Caiman that she quits working for him after what he has done, before leaving with Nick. Philippe, taking a tape Animal was recording and promising to return it after removing certain contents, thanks Nick for his help and parts ways. In the ruins of Madison Square Garden, a single surviving egg hatches and the hatchling roars.

####Godzilla, King of the Monsters!####
Injured American reporter Steve Martin is brought from the ruins of Tokyo to a hospital filled with maimed and wounded citizens. A recent acquaintance, Emiko, discovers him by chance among the victims and attempts to find a doctor for him. Martin recalls in flashback stopping over in Tokyo, where a series of inexplicable offshore ship disasters catches his attention. When a victim of those disasters washes up on Odo Island, Martin flies there for the story, along with security officer Tomo Iwanaga. There he learns of the island inhabitants' long-held belief in a sea monster god known as "Godzilla", which they believe caused the ship disasters. That night, a heavy storm strikes the island, destroying houses and killing some villagers. The islanders believe that Godzilla was actually responsible for the destruction.

Martin returns to the island with Dr. Yamane, who is leading a team to investigate the damage. Huge radioactive footprints and prehistoric trilobite are discovered. An alarm rings and Martin, the villagers, and Dr. Yamane's team head up a hill for safety. Near the summit, they encounter Godzilla, and they quickly flee downhill. Upon Dr. Yamane's later return to Tokyo, he deduces that Godzilla is convert|400.|ft tall and was resurrected by the repeated hydrogen bomb testing in the Pacific. To Yamane's dismay, the military responds by attempting to kill the monster using depth charges. Martin contacts his old friend, Dr. Daisuke Serizawa, for dinner, but Serizawa declines due to a previous commitment with his fiancée, Emiko, Dr. Yamane's daughter.

Emiko goes to Serizawa's home to break off her arranged engagement with him because she is actually in love with Hideo Ogata, a salvage ship captain. Dr. Serizawa, however, gives her a demonstration of his secret project, which horrifies her. She is sworn to secrecy and unable to bring herself to break off the engagement. Godzilla surfaces from Tokyo Bay, unharmed by the depth charges, and attacks the city, destroying a train before returning to the bay. The next morning, the Japan Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) supercharges the tall electrical towers along Tokyo's coast to repel the monster.

Godzilla resurfaces that night and breaks through the electrical towers and JSDF defense line using his atomic heat breath. Martin documents Godzilla's rampage via tape recorder and is injured during the attack. Godzilla returns to the sea and the flashback ends. Martin wakes up in the hospital with Emiko and Ogata. Horrified by the destruction, Emiko reveals to them the existence of Dr. Serizawa's Oxygen Destroyer, which disintegrates oxygen atoms in saltwater and causes all marine organisms to die of acidic asphyxiation. Emiko and Ogata go to Dr. Serizawa to convince him to use his powerful weapon on Godzilla, but he initially refuses. After watching a television broadcast showing the nation's continuing plight, Serizawa finally gives in to their pleas.

A ship takes Ogata, Serizawa, Yamane, Martin, and Emiko out to the deepest part of Tokyo Bay. In hardhat diving suits, Ogata and Serizawa are lowered down by lifelines near Godzilla to plant the weapon. Ogata is pulled up, but Serizawa delays his ascent and activates the device. He radios the surface of its success and wishes Emiko and Ogata happiness together. Serizawa cuts his lifelines, taking the secret of his invention to the grave. Godzilla succumbs to the Oxygen Destroyer, which dissolves its body and bones. All aboard the ship mourn the loss of Dr. Serizawa. Martin reflects that the world can "live again" due to Serizawa's ultimate sacrifice.

####Godzilla: King of the Monsters (2019 film)####

Five years after the existence of giant monsters, known as "Titans", was revealed to the world, Dr. Emma Russell, a paleobiologist working for the Titan-studying organization Monarch, and her daughter Madison witness the birth of a larva called Mothra. Emma calms Mothra using the "Orca," a device that can emit frequencies to attract or alter Titan behavior. A group of eco-terrorists, led by former British Army Colonel Alan Jonah, attacks the base and abducts Emma and Madison. At the same time, Mothra flees and pupates under a nearby waterfall.

Monarch scientists Dr. Ishirō Serizawa and Dr. Vivienne Graham approach former employee Dr. Mark Russell, Emma's ex-husband and Madison's father, to help track them down. Mark is reluctant at first due to his hatred toward Godzilla, whom he blames for the death of his son during the events in San Francisco, but eventually agrees. The Monarch team follows Godzilla to Antarctica, where Jonah plans to free a three-headed Titan codenamed "Monster Zero." Emma frees and awakens Monster Zero, who battles Godzilla, devours Graham, and escapes. The team later realizes that Emma is working with the terrorists. From a Monarch bunker in Boston, Emma contacts Monarch and argues that the Titans must be awakened to heal the Earth from the damages that humans have caused.

Emma awakens Rodan in Mexico, and the Monarch team lures it towards Monster Zero. After Rodan is defeated, Godzilla ambushes Monster Zero and severs his left head. During the fight, the U.S. Navy launches a prototype weapon called the "Oxygen Destroyer," seemingly killing Godzilla. Unaffected, Monster Zero regrows his lost head and awakens all the other dormant Titans worldwide, with Rodan submitting to his rule. As a result, Madison disowns Emma.

Through mythological texts, Dr. Ilene Chen discovers that Monster Zero is King Ghidorah, a prehistoric alien seeking to transform the Earth. Mothra emerges from her cocoon and flies to Monarch's Bermuda base to communicate with Godzilla, who is recuperating in an ancient underwater city. The team locates Godzilla's lair in a submarine, which is highly radioactive. They deduce it will take too long for Godzilla to heal on his own and decide to detonate a nuclear warhead to speed up the process. Serizawa sacrifices himself by manually detonating the warhead, reviving Godzilla, and increasing his power.

Emma realizes the destruction Ghidorah and the other Titans will bring to the world is far worse than anything humans could inflict, but Jonah ignores her pleas to stop. Madison overhears this and steals the Orca. Arriving at Fenway Park, Madison broadcasts a frequency that calms the Titans but unwittingly attracts them all to her location. Ghidorah lands in Boston to destroy the Orca. Godzilla arrives to engage him in battle with Monarch personnel's assistance. Mark leads a team to rescue Madison and escape the city after learning Godzilla's radiation levels are increasing and will lead to a thermonuclear explosion. Mothra arrives to help Godzilla but is intercepted by Rodan; she defeats him but is injured in the process.

Ghidorah overpowers Godzilla and prepares to kill him, but Mothra sacrifices herself and transfers her energy to Godzilla. Mark, Emma, and Madison are reunited and reactivate the Orca to lure Ghidorah away from Godzilla. Emma sacrifices herself to lead Ghidorah away, giving Mark, Madison, and the Monarch team time to escape. Godzilla enters a newly empowered state and defeats Ghidorah. Rodan and the other Titans converge on Godzilla and bow to him.

During the ending credits, news clippings and Monarch public files show that the Titans are helping to heal the planet, a suspected second Mothra egg has been discovered, and some of the Titans are converging on Skull Island. Ancient cave paintings of Godzilla and Kong-like Titans locked in battle are shown. In a post-credits scene, Jonah and his forces purchase Ghidorah's severed left head in Mexico.

####Gog (film)####
Unaccountable, deadly malfunctions begin occurring at a top-secret government facility located under the New Mexico desert, where a space station is being constructed. Dr. David Sheppard, from the Office of Scientific Investigation (OSI) in Washington, D.C., is called in to investigate the mysterious deaths. Working with Joanna Merritt, another OSI agent already at the facility, Sheppard determines that the deaths among the laboratory's 150 top scientists are due to sabotage of the facility's Nuclear Operative Variable Automatic Computer (NOVAC), which controls and co-ordinates all the equipment in the underground facility.

It is far more difficult, however, to determine how the sabotage is being done. The unseen enemy strikes again and again, snuffing out the lives of five scientists and two human test subjects in quick succession, as well as Major Howard, the complex's Chief of Security. In addition, both Madame Elzevir (solar engineering scientist) and Dr. Peter Burden (chief atomic engineer) are attacked, but manage to survive, although both are injured.

Eventually, Sheppard determines that a powerful radio transmitter and receiver were secretly built into NOVAC during its construction in Switzerland, without the knowledge or consent of its designer, Dr. Zeitman. An enemy robot plane, whose fiberglass body does not register on radar, has been flying overhead, beaming precisely focused, ultra-high-frequency radio signals into the complex to control NOVAC's every function. The computer, in turn, controls Gog and Magog, two huge mobile robots with multiple arms, powerful gripping tools, and other implements.

Magog is finally directed to go to the complex's nuclear reactor control room and pull the safety rod out of the atomic pile, starting a chain reaction that will build to a nuclear explosion, which in turn will destroy the entire facility. Sheppard arrives in time to push the safety rod back into the pile, stopping the chain reaction. He then attacks the robot with a flame thrower and disables it, but Gog soon follows its twin to the reactor room to finish the job. Sheppard's flame thrower runs out of fuel as the robot advances on him. Dr. Van Ness arrives with another flame thrower, but the control valve sticks, and Gog now turns on him. Sheppard desperately begins using the nozzle of his flame thrower as a bludgeon, trying to smash the robot's electronic tubes. The now-crippled robot begins spinning back and forth, its arms thrashing about wildly. At that point, Gog suddenly comes to a halt, its metal arms falling limply to its sides. American F-86 and F-94 jet fighters have found and destroyed the enemy plane, ending NOVAC's reign of destruction. Van Ness then realizes that Sheppard and Merritt have been exposed to an overdose of radiation from the reactor.  Sheppard takes Merritt (who has fainted as a result of all the stress she has experienced) into his arms and they head for the complex hospital, where it is determined that their exposure, while causing their film badges to turn red, was not serious, and that they will both soon recover.

A few days later, Dr. Van Ness explains the situation to the Secretary of Defense, informing him that, in spite of all the setbacks, the project is still on schedule, and that a working model of the space station is about to be launched into orbit. The new "baby space station" will be equipped with telescopes and television cameras that will spot any further attempts to sabotage the complex. The Secretary notes with satisfaction: "Nothing will take us by surprise again!" The following morning, the launch goes off without a hitch.

####Gorgo (film)####
Captain Joe Ryan is salvaging for treasure off the coast of Ireland when a volcano erupts, nearly sinking his ship. Ryan and his First Officer and friend, Sam Slade, take the ship to Nara Island for repairs. Before the Harbour Master, Mr McCartin, arrives to assist them, the crew meet Sean, an orphan, who assists McCartin: he invites them to see his collection of ancient Viking relics. Ryan finds himself intrigued by a relic bearing the image of a creature that Sean calls "Ogra, the sea spirit".

Joe and Sam consult the surly  McCartin and discover he has more than archaeological interest when he shows them his stash of illegally salvaged gold relics from the harbour. Ryan warns him to stop being unhelpful or else he will call the police. As Ryan's divers check the harbour for other divers who mysteriously disappeared, one of them emerges and dies from "fear". That night a group of fishermen go out to check the water. They are attacked by a gigantic creature, but successfully drive it off with firebrands.

After meeting the fishermen and with help from McCartin, Ryan and his crew manage to capture the creature and haul it onto their ship. Sean warns them that they have made a mistake, but the crew ignore him. Hearing of the creature, two university scientists arrive to meet Ryan and Slade, hoping to obtain it for scientific study. However, Ryan has already sold the creature to Dorkin's Circus in London.

Dorkin names the creature "Gorgo", after the gorgon Medusa,  before transporting it to a large, enclosed pit for public exhibition in Battersea Park. Ryan and Slade meet the scientists again, who inform them the creature is an infant. With its larger mother still out there, the Royal Navy takes charge of the operation. Later that night Gorgo's mother emerges from the sea and attacks Nara Island in search of her offspring before leaving. When she attacks again in the morning, a Royal Navy destroyer intercepts her, but she proves immune to their weapons and sinks it, killing all aboard.

The mother later attacks London. The military intervene, but fail to stop or destroy her. Ryan and Slade split up to find Sean, with the former finding the boy and keeping him safe. Gorgo's mother is eventually reunited with her offspring and frees him from the pit before they both return safely to the sea.

####The Great Space Adventure####
####The Human Duplicators####
Aboard a spacecraft heading toward earth, the head of the "Intergalactic Council" (Ted Durant) briefs Dr. Kolos (Richard Kiel), a gigantic humanoid alien, on his part to "expand our galaxy domination program." If Kolos succeeds, human duplicates - androids - will begin taking over. If he fails, he will be destroyed.

After arriving via "teletransporter" at the mansion of Dr. Vaughan Dornheimer (Macready), Kolos encounters Dornheimer's blind niece, Lisa (Faith). Not realizing that he's an extraterrestrial, she take Kolos to Dornheimer's laboratory. Kolos tells Dornheimer that together they will develop the sophisticated androids that Dornheimer is unable to create on his own. Dornheimer refuses, but Kolos makes it clear that he is now "the master" and that he "will" be obeyed.

The police, meanwhile, are stymied by multiple thefts from high-security electronics facilities, apparently perpetrated by the "top scientists" who work at them. Most baffling of all is Dr. Munson (Walter Abel). After being admitted to his facility, he tears a security door off it hinges with his bare hands and kills a guard. He then ignores shouted warnings to halt by a second guard, who shoots him four times in the back. Munson neither flinches nor bleeds, just gets into his car and calmly drives off as if nothing unusual has happened. He's an android, although the police don't know it.

Glenn Martin (George Nader) of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) takes over the case. Glenn fails to find out anything by posing as a reporter, although he meets Lisa. He later sneaks into Dornheimer's lab and witnesses human duplication. Lisa tells him that Dornheimer has been replaced by an android. As she leaves, Glenn is attacked by an android version of Dornheimer's servant Thor (John Indrisano). In the ensuing fight, Glenn smashes android Thor's head, destroying him. Kolos hauls Glenn off to be duplicated.

After duplication, android Glenn returns to NIA headquarters, where Gale Wilson (Nichols), Glenn's girlfriend and fellow agent, notices his oddly cold behavior. She wonders if Glenn is an android and decides to tail him.

Android Glenn goes to a facility to steal additional electronics. He is interrupted by Gale, then gets into a gunfight with the police, during which his arm is trapped in a sliding door. When the police yank the door open, expecting to arrest the real Glenn, all they find is android Glenn's arm. He has torn it off and escaped.

The real Glenn is locked in a cell with the real Dornheimer. Lisa brings Glenn his "lucky coin," which contains a wire that he can use to cut through the cell's bars. She is then dragged away by two android lab assistants. As he saws the bars, the real Dornheimer tells him that he can destroy the androids by zapping their heads with the lab's "pulse laser beam."

When Kolos refuses to turn Lisa into an android, android Dornheimer unexpectedly proclaims himself head of the android "master race" and has Kolos chained to a wall by the half-dozen android Thors it takes to overpower him, then begins the process of duplicating Lisa. But suddenly android Glenn returns, interrupting the duplication. Still loyal to Kolos, android Glenn refuses to accept android Dornheimer as master. They fight, destroying each other. The real Glenn zaps the remaining androids as Kolos breaks free of his chains.

After the androids have been destroyed, Kolos gently places the unconscious Lisa on a sofa. Her eyelids flutter open. She puts a hand to the corner of one eye and smiles.

Kolos says that his mission has failed and, sadly, he has learned that he too is an android. He teletransports back aboard the spaceship, presumably to meet his doom at the hands of the Intergalactic Council.

####Hyper Sapien: People from Another Star####
One night, three aliens from the planet Taros — a young woman named Robyn, a girl named Tavy, and a furry three-eyed, three-armed creature named Kirbi — stow away on a spaceship headed for Earth, and land near Aladdin, Wyoming. The next morning, the aliens befriend a rancher's son named Dirt while he's out riding fences on his motorcycle. Robyn shows off her bike-riding skills, and the quartet go to visit Dirt's grandparents. After Kirbi beats Grandpa at poker, the creature drinks a can of gasoline. Later, Kirbi keeps feeding the goats even though Grandpa wants him to feed the chickens. Grandpa then shows Kirbi how to shoot Coors cans with a gun while he complains about how much the world has changed. Dirt forms a relationship with Robyn, learning that her hair changes color depending on exposure to sunlight and that she's come from a moonbase and was supposed to go back to her home planet, rather than coming to Earth. Dirt tries to keep his new friends a secret from the rest of his family, but things get complicated when other aliens come looking for the missing trio, Grandpa shows Kirbi to some old folks at the General Store, and a Senator arrives at the ranch for a barbecue.

####Hyperfutura####
####I Was a Zombie for the F.B.I.####
After landing by Pleasantville, United States, the aliens convince two Earth criminals to help them rule the world. The aliens hypnotize people into a "zomboid state" and unleash a reptilian creature. Two F.B.I. agents fight against the aliens, criminals, and the creature to combat the threat of imminent world domination.

####I'll Be Watching####
####Idaho Transfer####
####In the Blink of an Eye (upcoming film)####
####Invader (1992 film)####
In the opening sequence, four airmen from Clark Air Base in Washington D.C. frantically attempt to escape the base. A contingent of soldiers soon blocks their path. Most of the escapees are shot, but one sees a flying saucer which burns him to a crisp with its energy weapon.

Frank Mccall (Hans Bachmann) is an overqualified photojournalist writing about two-headed dogs and alien abductions for the sleazy "National Scandal" tabloid. When the airman's charred corpse is found, he is assigned to the story. When government agents try to keep him out, he resolves to sneak into the airbase, where a top-secret fighter plane is to be demoed that night. The plane is equipped with an experimental software system called A.S.M.O.D.S, which suddenly malfunctions mid-demo, crashing the plane. As the disappointed top brass go home, Mccall is intercepted by Captain Anders (A. Thomas Smith), who orders him taken into custody and his camera seized.

Sinister men in black wrench Mccall away, taking him to a storage compartment to be injected with a glowing green substance and brainwashed with an electronic apparatus. Anders and Colonel Faraday (Rick Foucheux) arrive in time to stop them, and the men shoot themselves. Anders takes Mccall into custody himself, while Faraday returns to the base. Suddenly, the flying saucer from the opening appears. Anders shoots it, to no effect, while Mccall photographs it with his backup disc camera. Powerless against the invader, they drive away, dodging more men in black on the way, and lock themselves in the base.

Mccall's camera is again confiscated, its photos to be developed as evidence. Mccall manages to secure the prints, and also spies on Anders conversing with the General. He thus finds out that the A.S.M.O.D.S. system uses alien technology recovered from a crashed spaceship in the New Mexico desert, and this technology seems to have a mind of its own. The men in black break their way in, so Mccall escapes with Anders in the F-117 stealth fighter. They have a brief dogfight with some F-16s out of Clark, which ends when they manage to secure air support from the Pentagon.

Mccall and Anders are questioned, and eventually manage to convince General Anheiser (John Cook) that A.S.M.O.D.S. has taken over the base computers using the intranet, and brainwashed all of the soldiers into its control. They agree to go investigate the next day. In between time, Mccall quits his job at the "Scandal", realizing he is onto the story of the century.

At the airbase, the trio is greeted by a now-brainwashed Faraday. His troops destroy their helicopter escort, and he takes them down to the subbasement, which has been excavated into a gaping cavern. There Faraday reveals the alien's plan: it cannibalized the base hardware to build a giant robot, HARV, with which to conquer the world after nuking China and Russia. Mccall realizes that just as the alien programming seeped into A.S.M.O.D.S., so A.S.M.O.D.S. has seeped into the alien, arming it with a nationalistic impulse to destroy America's enemies.

The protagonists manage to shoot Faraday's guards. HARV tries to stop them, but only succeeds in killing Faraday. They search the basement for weapons with which to destroy HARV and avert World War III. They find a rocket launcher and two rockets; their first attempt misses, but the second is a direct hit, with one second to spare before HARV would launch the missiles. The ending sequence shows several newspapers honoring Mccall for his heroics, while the "National Scandal" claims the alien invasion was a hoax.

####The Invaders (miniseries)####
Former Air Force officer Nolan Wood, an inmate in prison for manslaughter charges,  meets David Vincent (from the original TV series) while both are in prison. Vincent tells Nolan a fantastic story about the alien conspiracy to control the world. Wood begins to have visions about aliens and UFOs.

Later, Wood (Bakula),  now a recently released convict, is taken over by aliens. He thinks he is able to throw off their control with the help of nurse Garza (Pena). In fact the control and Wood's apparent successful resistance and visions are part of a plot by the aliens to kill a Harvard ecologist.

With knowledge of the aliens’ plot, Wood must save a presidential candidate on a train that is out of control

####Invasion of Astro-Monster####
In the year 196X,sfn|Galbraith IV|2008|p=225 two astronauts, Fuji and Glenn, are sent to investigate the surface of the mysterious "Planet X". There they encounter advanced and seemingly benevolent human-like beings called the Xiliens and their leader the Controller. The aliens usher the astronauts into their underground base, and moments later the surface is attacked by a creature that the Xiliens call "Monster Zero", but which the astronauts recognize as King Ghidorah, a planet-destroying monster that had attacked Earth once before. The monster eventually leaves, but the Controller states that King Ghidorah has been attacking repeatedly, forcing them to live underground in constant fear. He requests to borrow the Earth monsters Godzilla and Rodan to act as protectors to fight it once more (since 1964), in return for the cure for cancer (the English dub says that the formula can cure any disease). The astronauts return to Earth and deliver the message.

Meanwhile, an inventor named Tetsuo has designed a personal alarm that emits an ear-splitting electric siren. He sells it to a businesswoman named Namikawa, but she disappears before paying him. Tetsuo is romantically involved with Fuji's sister, Haruno, but Fuji disapproves, finding him unworthy of Haruno. Tetsuo sees Namikawa with Glenn and later follows her, but he is captured and imprisoned by Xilien spies.

Glenn and Fuji begin to worry that the Xiliens may have ulterior motives. Their suspicions appear confirmed when three Xilien spacecraft appear in Japan. The Controller apologizes for coming to Earth without permission. The Xiliens locate Godzilla and Rodan, both sleeping, and use their technology to transport them to Planet X. They also bring Glenn, Fuji, and the scientist Sakurai with them. After a brief confrontation, the Earth monsters succeed in driving King Ghidorah away. Glenn and Fuji sneak away during the battle and encounter two Xilien women, both of whom look identical to Namikawa. Xilien guards confront the astronauts and bring them back to the Controller, who reprimands but does not punish them. The astronauts are given a tape with instructions for the miracle cure and sent home, leaving Godzilla and Rodan behind. The tape is played for the world's leaders, but instead, it contains an ultimatum demanding that they surrender Earth to the Xiliens or be destroyed by Godzilla, Rodan, and King Ghidorah, who are all under the aliens' mental control.

Glenn storms into Namikawa's office and finds her in Xilien garb. She admits that she is one of their spies, but confesses that she has fallen in love with him. Her commander arrives to arrest Glenn and executes Namikawa for letting emotion cloud her judgment, but not before she slips a note into Glenn's pocket. Glenn is taken to the same cell as Tetsuo. They read Namikawa's note, which explains that the sound from Tetsuo's invention disrupts the Xiliens' electronics. Tetsuo has a prototype with him, which he activates, weakening their captors and allowing them to escape.

Sakurai and Fuji build a device to disrupt the Xilien's control over the monsters. Glenn and Tetsuo arrive to share the Xilien's weakness. As the monsters attack, Sakurai's device is activated and the sound from Tetsuo's alarm is broadcast over the radio. The invasion is thwarted and the Xiliens, unable to fight back or retreat, destroy themselves en masse. The monsters awaken from their trances and a fight ensues. All three topple off a cliff into the ocean; King Ghidorah surfaces and flies back into outer space, while those watching speculate that Godzilla and Rodan are probably still alive. Fuji acknowledges Tetsuo's important role in the victory and no longer thinks poorly of him. Sakurai states that he wants to send Glenn and Fuji back to Planet X to study the planet thoroughly (the English dub says that they are to be ambassadors). The astronauts are reluctant, but make the best of the moment, happy that Earth is safe.

####The Invisible Monster####
A would-be dictator and scientist, known only as "The Phantom Ruler", has developed a formula which, when sprayed on some solid object, renders that object and everything it contains invisible when exposed to rays emitted by a special lamp, also his own invention. Covered from head to toe in formula-treated cloth, he thus moves about unseen, presently with the objective of stealing enough money and formula components to render an entire army of willing followers invisible.  Two henchmen assist him, along with several illegal aliens smuggled into the US by him and used to infiltrate, as employees, possible sites for him to later rob while invisible.  When he successfully robs a bank vault, an investigator from the bank's insurer teams up with a woman police detective to solve the mystery of the money which to all outside appearances has just vanished.  Tracking clues and interrupting other attempts by the Phantom Ruler to commit crimes, the protagonists round up enough evidence that they are not merely dealing with an ordinary crime ring.  Eventually they discover the invisibility fluid and lamp, and the Phantom Ruler is killed when he trips over an open high-power electric cable he had laid on the floor of his den to do in the forces of law and order closing in upon him.

####The Invisible Ray (1920 serial)####
After a mineralogist discovers a ray with extraordinary powers, a group of scientists seek to use it for a criminal scheme. with the two keys to a box that contains the source of the rays which, if concentrated, are powerful enough to destroy the world. One of the keys is hung around the neck of Mystery (Clifford), a foundling girl who is the daughter of the mineralogist. The second key and the box are in unknown hands at the beginning of the serial. Jack Stone (Sherrill) loves her, but on the night of their planned elopement Mystery is kidnapped for the key she wears, which falls at the door of the minister. She is taken to an underground chamber where she is tortured in an attempt to force her to give up her key. Jack and a friend visit a Crystal Gazer who reveals the whereabouts of Mystery. In a thrilling chase through underground chambers the young woman is rescued, only then to fall back into the hands of her enemies. Mystery is swung from a derrick and falls into the water. Later serial chapters reveal Marianna, the Crystal Gazer (Uzzell), as the mother of Mystery, and her father turns out to be her pursuer, attempting to gain possession of the box and its key.

####Io (film)####
The film is set in a post-apocalyptic present, where Earth's atmosphere has become toxic. Most humans have fled the planet, to live on a space station near Io, a moon of Jupiter.

Sam Walden is one of the few humans remaining on Earth. She lives alone at high altitude, where the air is still breathable, trying to raise bees that can survive in the atmosphere. Her intent is to use the bees to eventually clean the air via the pollination of oxygen-producing plants. Her long-distance boyfriend, who lives on the Io station, urges her to leave Earth on the last shuttle from the planet.

A storm creates a toxic cloud that passes through Sam's shelter, killing all of her bees. Micah, a man travelling by helium balloon, arrives shortly thereafter. He intends to reach the launch site and leave Earth, but first wants to speak with Dr. Harry Walden, Sam's father, who had urged mankind to stay because he still saw hope.

Initially, Sam states that her father is conducting field work elsewhere. However, after a day, she reveals that her father died the previous year. Hearing this, Micah is determined to take Sam with him to the space shuttle, to which she apathetically agrees. After receiving a message from her boyfriend saying goodbye, because he is part of an expedition embarking on a 10-year voyage to an exoplanet orbiting Alpha Centauri, Sam records a message informing everyone still on Earth that Dr. Walden's attempt to clean the planet was ultimately unsuccessful and that everybody should leave, and go to Io.

While preparing and waiting for the right wind conditions, Sam and Micah grow closer and become romantically involved. They also discover that a new queen bee hatched in Sam's hive, which is immune to the toxic air. They are informed that the shuttle launch is rescheduled to another site, farther away than the original. As a result, they drive into a city blanketed by the toxic atmosphere to obtain the helium required for the journey. After finding the helium, Sam visits an art museum alone. Micah rushes after her, knowing her oxygen tank is running low. Instead of switching to a new tank, Sam pulls off her mask and breathes the toxic air hoping to survive. She takes several breaths, as the scene fades to black. Micah travels alone to the spaceship because Sam has decided to stay behind.

Like the new queen bee in her colony, the changed environment is not toxic to Sam. The film ends with her standing on a beach alone before being joined by a young child (presumably Micah's son). A voice over of a letter from Sam to Micah tells how beautiful the Earth is, how those who have left the planet will have learned to fear it, and that they are waiting for them to return.

####Jackrabbit (film)####
####Josh Kirby... Time Warrior!####
####Journey to the Center of the Earth (2008 theatrical film)####
In 2007, Trevor Anderson is a Bostonian volcanologist whose 13-year-old nephew, Sean, is supposed to spend ten days with him. Trevor learns at work that his brother's lab is being shut down because of a lack of funding. Trevor has forgotten that Sean is coming until he receives several messages from Sean's mother Elizabeth. When Sean's mother drops him off, she leaves Trevor with a box of items that belonged to Max, Trevor's brother and Sean's father, who disappeared 10 years before. Sean suddenly takes interest in what Trevor has to say after he tells him about his father, whom he never really had a chance to know.  In the box, Trevor discovers the novel "Journey to the Center of the Earth" by Jules Verne. Inside the book Trevor finds notes written by his late brother. Trevor goes to his laboratory to find out more about the notes. There he realizes that he must go to Iceland to investigate for himself.

He intends to send Sean back to his mother, but relents at Sean's protest and brings Sean to Iceland with him.  They start by looking for another volcanologist. When they get to that scientist's institution, they meet his daughter Hannah, who informs them he is dead. She also tells them that both her father and Max believed that Jules Verne's books were factual accounts. However she offers to help them climb up to the instrument that has suddenly started sending data again. While hiking the mountain, a lightning storm forces the three into a cave. The cave entrance collapses, trapping them, so they have no alternative but to go deeper in the cave, which turns out to be an abandoned mine.

Trevor, Sean, and Hannah investigate farther into the mine until they fall into a deep hole, taking them to the "Center of the Earth". They all continue until they discover a cave-dwelling that Max lived in.  Trevor and Sean find Max's old journal. Hannah and Trevor discover Max's dead body and bury him. Trevor reads a message from Max's journal that was written on Sean's 3rd birthday (8.14.97). Trevor continues to read Max's journal until he realizes from his notes that they must quickly leave, as the temperature is steadily rising.

Trevor figures that they must find a geyser that can send them to the surface. They must do this in 48 hours or all of the water to create the geyser will be gone. They also figure that they must get out before the temperature rises past 135 degrees. They start building a raft to cross the underground ocean, and then the two adults become separated from Sean. Sean's guide is now a little glowing bird who has been present since the trio entered the center, and it takes him towards the river. However, he encounters a "Giganotosaurus", and Trevor – who desperately is searching for him – saves him. When they arrive at the geyser it is all dried up. All the water is on the other side of the walls.

Trevor uses a flare to ignite the magnesium in the wall and causes a geyser to shoot them through Mount Vesuvius in Italy. When they destroy the home of an Italian man, Sean gives him a diamond that he had found earlier. Trevor sees that he has many more in his backpack, and he uses them to fund his brother's laboratory. Throughout the adventure, Hannah and Trevor gradually become so attached to each other that they share a kiss. On the final day of Sean's visit with Trevor (and now Hannah), he is leaving their new home, which was purchased with some of the diamonds Sean took from the cave, and Trevor hands Sean a book titled "Atlantis", suggesting they could maybe hang out at Sean's during Christmas break.

####Journey to the Center of Time####
Stanton has taken charge of a research company following the death of his father. He warns scientists Mark Mannin, "Doc" Gordon, and Karen White that unless they prove that their time travel experiments can produce some results, their funding will be cut off.

Desperate, they push their equipment past the level of safety and travel 5000 years into the future. There, they encounter aliens led by Vina<!--This is not a mistake or vandalism!--> who are looking for a planet to colonize. The aliens find no welcome on Earth, which is in the midst of a global war that threatens the human race. She urges them to go back and warn humanity about the danger, then dies in a human attack. The time travelers retreat to their chamber and head back. On the way, they detect another time machine on a collision course. Manning tries to communicate with them; when that fails, they fire at it, but their weapon is too weak. Stanton takes charge, boosts the power and destroys the other vessel.

They overshoot the present and end up in the distant past, in the age of dinosaurs. Their giant ruby, a key component of the machine, is destroyed, leaving them stranded. When they explore a nearby cave, they find it studded with all sorts of jewels, including rubies. Overcome by greed, Stanton grabs handfuls of precious gems, returns to the time machine, replaces the ruby and takes off without the scientists. However, on his return trip, he encounters another time travelling machine on a collision course. As he hears a radio broadcast from Manning, Stanton realizes with horror that he is racing towards the earlier version of the time machine. Then he is destroyed by the blast initiated by his earlier self.

Meanwhile, as the scientists leave the cave, Gordon stumbles and falls to his death in molten lava. Mark and Karen find the time machine gone; then it mysteriously reappears. They board it and try to return to their present, but arrive the day before their initial departure; as a result, they see their past selves living at a much slower time rate. They hasten back to the time machine to try to fix the problem, but end up hopelessly lost in time and space. In the final scene, the machine, with the two scientists on board, is shown drifting among the stars towards an unknown fate.

####Jungle Manhunt####
####Kill Switch (2017 film)####
Sometime in the near future, physicist and former NASA pilot Will Porter is recruited by Alterplex, a power company that has built a massive tower that taps into unlimited quantum energy. It is revealed that it is destroying a mirror universe Earth referred to as "The Echo" and that the inhabitants there also have an energy tower. Strange gravity anomalies and unexplained deaths are occurring in The Echo world that are blamed on the tower, as it takes energy from that world. There was supposed to be no life there but due to a malfunction, the device created a true mirror Earth full of life, and now both Earths face destruction unless one is destroyed within less than a day.

Porter has been sent to The Echo with a cube device called the "Redivider" believing it will balance the power transfer between the two universes and set things right. Instead, he learns the device is a kill switch that will destroy The Echo forcing him to decide which universe to sacrifice in order to save the other. The armies in The Echo know this and are trying to arrest or kill him. There is also a group of "anti-tower rebels" who are actively fighting the armed forces of the towers.

####King Dinosaur####
Five years in the future (1960), four scientists (zoologist Dr. Richard Gordon, geologist Dr. Nora Pierce, medical specialist Dr. Ralph Martin, and chemist Dr. Patrica Bennett) are selected as astronauts to travel to an ancient planet called Nova that has just entered Earth's Solar System. The crew begins studying the planet to see if it is suitable for a possible Earth colony. After first discovering normal Earth animals such as a kinkajou which they refer to as a lemur, crows which they call vultures, and an alligator (A Prehistoric species called Diplocynodon), they soon encounter and battle giant insects, an enormous snake known as Gigantophis, and prehistoric mammals like a Cave Bear, a Mastodon, and a Glyptodont.

Richard and Nora paddle a raft out to an island and are trapped in a cave by Prehistoric Reptiles, even a Tyrannosaurus rex (portrayed by a green iguana). They fire off a signal flare. Back on the mainland near their spaceship, Ralph and Patricia see the distress signal, grab the auxiliary nuclear power supply and paddle their raft out to the island to rescue Richard and Nora. Before they leave the island, they set the power supply to "unharness" in 30 minutes and leave it on the island. After encountering more prehistoric creatures, they reach their spaceship. The power supply blows up the island in a nuclear mushroom cloud, rendering King Dinosaur and the other dinosaurs of Nova extinct.

####King Kong Escapes####
####King of the Rocket Men####
An evil genius of unknown identity, calling himself "Dr. Vulcan" (heard only as a voice and seen as a mysterious shadow on a brightly lit wall), plots to conquer the world. He needs to first eliminate, one by one, the members of the Science Associates, an organization of America's greatest scientists.

After narrowly escaping an attempt on his life by Vulcan, one member of Science Associates, Dr. Millard (James Craven) goes into hiding. He soon outfits another member, Jeff King (Tristram Coffin) with an advanced, atomic-powered rocket backpack, attached to a leather jacket with a bullet-shaped, aerodynamic flight helmet, and a raygun that they had been developing together.

Using the flying jacket and helmet and other inventions provided by Dr. Millard, and aided by magazine reporter and photographer Glenda Thomas (Mae Clarke), Jeff King, as Rocket Man, battles Vulcan and his henchmen through a dozen action-packed Republic serial chapters. Eventually, Vulcan steals Millard's most dangerous invention, a Sonic Decimator, and uses it to flood, then destroy New York City. The mysterious Dr. Vulcan is eventually unmasked and brought to justice by Jeff King while in his Rocket Man persona.

####Kronos (film)####
A huge, blinking flying object from deep space emits a glowing ball of electrical energy, which races to Earth. It intercepts a man driving his pickup along an isolated road in the American Southwest desert late at night. It takes over the man's mind. directing him to LabCentral, a U.S. research facility, where a pair of scientists have been tracking the flying object, thinking it to be an asteroid.

The possessed man knocks out LabCentral's security guard, then proceeds into the main building where the entity leaves the pickup driver and enters the mind of Dr. Hubbell Eliot, the LabCentral chief. Meanwhile, in a research lab below, astrophysicist Dr. Leslie Gaskell and his computer science associate, Dr. Arnold Culver, have been tracking the flying object. They realize that it is not only headed toward Earth but is moving  under intelligent guidance. They order three nuclear missiles fired, but they fail to destroy the object, which dives into the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Mexico.

The two scientists, along with Vera Hunter, LabCentral's staff photographer and Gaskell's girlfriend, rush to Mexico. After their arrival, they see an enormous dome, glowing and steaming, appear on the ocean horizon. The next morning, on the beach outside their room, they find that a very tall machine has appeared; its four-legged body has two mobile antennae.

They use a small helicopter to land atop the machine, glimpsing its complex inner workings before being forced to leave and fly back to LabCentral when the machine begins to move. The possessed Dr. Eliot, using lists of power stations and atom-bomb arsenals around the world, telepathically directs the machine. Now named Kronos by the news media, it methodically attacks power plants in Mexico, draining all their energy. In doing so, Kronos grows larger, consuming more and more power as it moves from one power source to the next. Four Mexican Air Force fighter planes attack, but the ever-growing alien machine easily destroys them and continues on its rampage.

Meanwhile, when Kronos is absorbing energy, Eliot is momentarily freed from the influence of the energy force controlling him. Eliot tells his returned colleagues that Kronos is an energy accumulator, sent by an alien race that has exhausted its own natural resources; they have sent their giant machine to drain "all" the Earth's available power and then return it to their dying world.

On Eliot's recommendation, the United States Air Force sends a B-47 bomber to drop an atomic bomb on Kronos. Gaskell warns the Air Force general in charge that an atomic explosion will simply supply the alien machine with more massive amounts of energy. The general attempts to abort the mission, but Kronos, aware of the plan by way of Dr. Eliot's mind, magnetically draws the jet to crash into it, absorbing the bomb's nuclear blast. The alien machine, now grown to an immense size, appears unstoppable, harvesting all forms of energy at will.

In another uncontrolled moment, Dr. Eliot locks himself in an hermetically sealed room and smashes the only electronic keypad for the door; he and the energy force which has possessed him expire. As Kronos draws near Los Angeles, Gaskell realizes that reversing the machine's polarity will force it to feed upon itself, until it is destroyed in a gigantic implosion. Gaskell, Culver, and Vera convince the Air Force to bombard Kronos with nuclear ions, which will cause the polarity to reverse; the experiment works, and Kronos is completely obliterated in the resulting implosion.

####The Land That Time Forgot (2009 film)####
####Lapsis####
####Laserblast####
The film opens with a green-skinned man (Franne Schacht) wandering aimlessly through the desert with a mysterious laser cannon attached to his arm. Nearby, an alien spacecraft lands and two reptilian creatures carrying weapons emerge. After a brief firefight, the aliens disintegrate the man, then return to their spacecraft and fly away, leaving behind the laser cannon and a metallic pendant the man was wearing. Elsewhere, teenager Billy Duncan (Kim Milford) wakes up in his bed, seemingly disturbed. He goes outside to find his mother (Janet Dey) has been invited to a trip to Acapulco and, despite her son's protests, she leaves her son behind. A dejected Billy goes to visit his girlfriend Kathy (Cheryl Smith), but her grandfather Colonel Farley (Keenan Wynn), a disheveled military veteran, spouts wild conspiracy theories and paranoid rants at Billy until he goes away. It becomes clear Billy despises the town he lives in and everybody around him, and for good reason; he is soon harassed both by a teenage bully named Chuck Boran (Mike Bobenko) and his nerdy friend Froggy (Eddie Deezen), and by two police deputies (Dennis Burkley and Barry Cutler), who give him a speeding ticket.

Billy wanders into the desert alone and discovers the laser cannon and pendant. He starts playing with the cannon, making "pow, pow, pow" noises and pretending to shoot things. However, while wearing the pendant and using the cannon simultaneously, the weapon actually fires, and Billy starts firing randomly at things in the desert. Meanwhile, on the alien spacecraft, the two aliens converse (in an unsubtitled alien language) with their leader, who orders them to return to Earth and recover the cannon: it is implied that the aliens left the cannon and pendant behind under the presumption that no other human would be able to use them as the green-skinned man had. Meanwhile, Billy and Kathy attend a pool party with other teens, where Chuck makes an unwanted advance on Kathy, resulting in Billy fighting with Chuck and Froggy. That night, from a hidden vantage point, Billy fires at Chuck's car with the laser cannon, resulting in a huge explosion that Chuck and Froggy barely escape. A government official named Tony Craig (Gianni Russo) arrives to investigate both the explosion and the desert where Billy found the cannon. Tony informs the local sheriff (Ron Masak) that the town must be sealed off due to his investigation.

Meanwhile, Billy feels sick due to an unusual growth on his chest. At Kathy's urging, he visits Doctor Mellon (Roddy McDowall), who surgically removes a metallic disc from Billy's chest. He calls the police laboratory technician Mike London (Rick Walters) to arrange for the disc to be investigated. However, later that night, a green-skinned and seemingly crazed Billy opens fire on Mellon's car, killing him in an explosion. The next day, Tony investigates the wreckage and recovers unusual material, which he brings to Mike London. After some experiments, Mike concludes it is an alien material and cannot be destroyed. Later that night, Billy, once again appearing deranged and grotesque, attacks and kills the two police deputies who harassed him earlier. Elsewhere, Billy and Kathy lay together outside next to Billy's van. While he is sleeping, Kathy discovers his alien pendant and puts it on Billy's chest, which turns his skin green and his eyes and teeth hideously deformed. Billy attacks the horrified Kathy, but she escapes.

Billy goes on a rampage, shooting things at random with the laser cannon. A small airplane with law enforcement officials opens fire on Billy, but he destroys the plane. Next, he comes across Chuck and Froggy and kills them by destroying their new car with the cannon. Meanwhile, Tony Craig questions Colonel Farley and Kathy about Billy, while elsewhere the two aliens land on Earth and begin searching for Billy themselves. After killing a hippie (Michael Bryar) and stealing his van, Billy travels to a city block where he fires indiscriminately at his surroundings, screaming like an animal. Kathy and Tony arrive in their car and find Billy in an alley. Before they can speak to him, however, one of the aliens shoots him from atop one of the nearby buildings. Billy is killed, the laser cannon and the pendant are destroyed and the alien departs in the spacecraft. The film ends with Kathy crying over Billy's corpse as Tony looks on.

####The Last Chase####
In the year 2011, the United States is a police state.  A substantial percentage of the population was wiped out by a devastating viral pandemic 20 years earlier.  Amidst the resulting chaos and general panic, democracy collapsed and a totalitarian cabal seized power. After moving the seat of government to Boston, the new dictatorship outlawed private ownership and use of all automobiles, boats and aircraft, on the pretext that an even bigger crisis, the depletion of fossil fuel supplies, was imminent. The loss of other personal freedoms followed, and a mass surveillance system now monitors private citizens' every move.

In Boston, Franklyn Hart, a former race car driver who lost his family to the plague, is a spokesman for the mass transit system. Publicly, he deplores the selfishness of private vehicle ownership and exalts the virtues of public transportation; privately, he is barely able to contain his contempt for the oppressive, autocratic bureaucracy and the dismal party line that he is compelled to promote.

Years before, as private vehicles were being confiscated, Hart sequestered his race carspaced ndashan orange Porsche 917 CAN-AM roadsterspaced ndashin a secret compartment beneath his basement. Over the ensuing years he has gradually restored it to drivable condition, raiding long-abandoned junkyards in the dead of night for parts. His goal is to drive across the country to "Free California", an independent territory that has seceded from the rest of totalitarian America. Young electronics whiz Ring McCarthy deduces Hart's plan, and Hart reluctantly agrees to bring him along on his perilous journey.

The ubiquitous surveillance system catches Hart vaulting a junkyard fence; Hart and McCarthy flee Boston in the roadster as police close in. Although gasoline has not been sold for 20 years, Hart has access to a virtually inexhaustible supply, the residual fuel remaining at the bottom of subterranean storage tanks in every abandoned gas station in the country. He uses a portable hand pump to refuel from these tanks as necessary.

News of the duo's daring adventure spreads across the country. The government, represented by a Gestapo-like figure named Hawkins, watches with growing concern as the public takes notice and cheers Hart's defiance of authority. Calls for a return to personal autonomy and democracy are heard, for the first time in two decades. Hart must be stopped; but ground pursuit is impossible, as the electric golf carts used by the police are incapable of chasing down a race car.

Hawkins orders J. G. Williams, a retired Air Force pilot, to track down and destroy Hart and his car in a Korean War-vintage F-86 Sabre. He locates and strafes the car, wounding Hart. A community of armed (mostly Native American) rebels takes Hart and McCarthy in, hides the car, and treats Hart's wounds. A team of mercenaries soon locates and attacks the enclave, although Hart and McCarthy escape during the firefight.

Back on the open road, Williams once again has the roadster in his crosshairs; but now he is having second thoughts. As an old rebel himself, he is starting to identify with Hart's situation. Prodded by Hawkins, Williams initiates several more confrontations, but each time he backs off, to Hart's and McCarthy's bewilderment. McCarthy rigs a radio receiver and listens in on Williams's cockpit radio communications, then establishes a dialog with him using Morse code via a hand-held spotlight. Eventually Williams confides that he is sympathetic to their cause.

But Hawkins is also monitoring Williams's radio communications, and after learning of his change of heart, orders the activation of a Cold War-era laser cannon at a position ahead of Hart's route. Williams attempts to warn Hart, but his radio communications have been jammed. Williams releases his external fuel tanks ahead of the car, hoping the inferno will stop the car short of the cannon's range; but Hart, assuming Williams has changed allegiances yet again, drives on.

Williams strafes the laser, but cannot pierce its heavy armor; so he sacrifices himself in a kamikaze-style attack, destroying his jet and the laser installation. His sacrifice allows Hart and McCarthy to drive on toward California where they are welcomed as heroes.

####Last Exit to Earth####
####The Last Man on Planet Earth####
Sometime in a dystopian future, World War III with a war in Afghanistan breaks out. An incurable biological weapon called the "Y-bomb", which targets the male Y-chromosome, is used and results in the eventual deaths of 97% of the world's men. Feeling that they are better off without men, the planet's women decide to outlaw men because they were too violent. As a result, cloning has become the principal meaning of reproduction, with lesbianism becoming the state ideal.

Years later, scientist Hope Chayse, fearing for the future of the species, conducts a cloning experiment to produce a new male, Adam, genetically enhanced to mature from baby to adult in weeks and to refrain from violence. When Adam reaches maturity, he soon finds himself on the run from the FBI, and hiding out with small rebel bands of the last surviving men on Earth.

####The Last Mimzy####
A scientist in the distant future has set out to avert a catastrophic ecological disaster, and sends a small number of high tech devices that resemble toys back in time to modern day Seattle. Here, they are discovered by two children: Noah Wilder and his younger sister, Emma. The "toys" are initially incomprehensible to them, other than one which appears to be a stuffed rabbit. The children keep their discovery secret from their parents.

Emma becomes telepathically connected to the rabbit, naming it "Mimzy", which imparts knowledge onto her. The children gain genius-level intellects and psionic powers: Noah can teleport objects using a card-sized rectangle of green lines of light and a conch shell to control spiders, but thanks to her link, Emma develops the more advanced abilities, becoming the only one who can use the "spinners", stones which can float and produce a force field. Emma describes herself as "the chosen one" but names Noah as "the engineer" without which she cannot "build the bridge to the future".

The children's parents, and Larry White, Noah's science schoolteacher discover the devices and the children's powers. By mistake, Noah causes a power black-out over half the state of Washington, alerting the FBI to their activities. The family is held for questioning by Special Agent Nathaniel Broadman. The Mimzy is revealed as artificial life utilizing nanotechnology created by Intel.

Emma relates a dire message from Mimzy: Many Mimzys were sent into the past before her, but none of the others were able to return to their home time, because they lacked an "engineer" like Noah, and now Mimzy, the last one the scientist was able to send back, is beginning to disintegrate. To save the future, Mimzy must acquire a sample of uncorrupted human DNA to correct the damage done to DNA by ecological catastrophes. The FBI do not believe them, so Noah and Emma use their powers to escape. Mimzy absorbs a tear from Emma, which contains her DNA. Via the time portal which Noah constructs using the toys, Mimzy returns to the future.

Larry, who witnessed Mimzy leaving the present, says he saw "numbers", a reference to a previous dream he had which related to him the winning lottery numbers: He had missed out before by never buying a ticket. In the future, Mimzy provides the genetic information required to restore humanity, both physically and mentally, with Emma dubbed "Our Mother" by the people of the future.

####Life Returns####
####Light and the Sufferer####
####Lightspeed (film)####
The covert world of government Ghost Squad agent Daniel Leight (Jason Connery) comes crashing down when he gets critically injured in a building collapse triggered by the genetically mutated terrorist called Python (Daniel Goddard). But when Leight's radiation treatments are later sabotaged by Python, Leight discovers that he has the ability to move at hyper speeds, though only by risking potentially fatal metabolic damage.

####Liquid Sky####
A New Wave fashion show is to be held in a crowded Manhattan nightclub. Among the models are bisexual, cocaine-addicted Margaret and her similarly cocaine-addicted nemesis Jimmy. Margaret's drug-dealing girlfriend, Adrian, is constantly hassled by Jimmy because he does not have the money to pay for more drugs.

A small UFO lands on the roof of the penthouse apartment occupied by Margaret and Adrian. Jimmy accompanies Margaret home before the show, but he's actually trying to find Adrian's drugs. Margaret is being watched by a tiny, shapeless alien from inside the UFO. Margaret and Jimmy return to the club to participate in the show. During preparations, both agree to a photo shoot the following night on Margaret's rooftop. They are assured that there will be plenty of cocaine available at the shoot.

Jimmy's mother, Sylvia, a television producer, lives in the building across from Margaret's penthouse. German scientist Johann Hoffman has been secretly observing the aliens from the Empire State Building. Johann needs somewhere to continue his surveillance when the observation deck closes. He seeks help from the only person he knows in the U.S., college drama teacher Owen, who is on his way to meet a former student. Seeking a vantage point on his own, Johann stumbles into Sylvia's building. Sylvia, who has a free evening, invites him to her apartment for dinner. Across town, Katherine states her objection to the heroin use of her boyfriend, failed writer and addict Paul.

Margaret is seduced by Owen, her former acting professor. Then she is raped by Paul, Adrian's client. Paul had returned to seduce Margaret after walking out on a party held by Katherine when she insisted he pull himself together and help greet her business clients. The people who have sexual relations and reach orgasm with Margaret promptly die, with a crystal protruding from their head. Margaret realizes she can kill people by having sex with them. When Paul tries to rape her again in a fit of homophobic rage after finding out about her bisexuality, she vengefully kills him by forcing him to climax.

From Sylvia's apartment, Johann continues his observation between dinner and dodging Sylvia's attempts to seduce him. Adrian arrives home and helps Margaret hide Owen's body. Later the crew arrives at the apartment for the fashion shoot. Dominating the scene a young Dean LaPadula, sporting a skin tight leather vest, quietly observes the goings on. During the shoot Margaret is taunted by Jimmy, so she agrees to have sex with him knowing it will kill him.

Johann reveals that the alien is extracting the endorphins produced by the brain when an orgasm occurs. Margaret survives because she never experiences an orgasm. Margaret finally learns of the aliens from Johann, whom she stabs to death, something Sylvia witnesses through a telescope. Seeing the alien craft leaving, Margaret injects herself with heroin to induce a wild autoerotic orgasm to ensure the aliens take her with them. Sylvia and Katherine arrive at the apartment together and reach the penthouse in time to see Margaret vaporized and taken aboard by the aliens.

####The Little Prince (1974 film)####
####The Lost City (1935 serial)####
Scientist Bruce Gordon comes to a secluded area in Africa after concluding that a series of electrically induced natural disasters had originated from in the area.  There he finds the crazed Zolok, last of the Lemurians, in a secret complex inside a mountain.

Zolok had created the natural disasters as a prelude to his attempt to take over the world, holding a brilliant scientist, Dr. Manyus, there hostage, along with his daughter, Natcha. He had forced Manyus to create mindless "giant" slaves out of the natives as a private army and as the serial progresses we learn Manyus also turned another tribe, the spider-worshipping Wangas, into thin, impotent whites. Gordon helps Manyus and his daughter to escape Zolok, but they encounter Ben Ali, a malignant slave trader; meet the sexy native Queen Rama, who tries to help them; and survive harrowing jungle adventures before returning to the Lost City and stopping Zolok's plan.

####Lost Continent (1951 film)####
Maj. Joe Nolan (Cesar Romero) is the head of a South Pacific expedition to retrieve an atomic powered rocket that has vanished without a trace. His fellow serviceman and pilot, Lt. Danny Wilson (Chick Chandler), is also an expedition member. Aircraft mechanic Sgt. William Tatlow (Sid Melton) has also been recruited. The expedition includes the three scientists who helped build the rocket.

Their transport aircraft mysteriously crash-lands on a remote, unknown tropical island in the area where the rocket was lost on radar. Only two occupants are left on the island, a native woman (Acquanetta) and her young brother. The woman indicates something fell from the sky atop the forbidding, cloud-shrouded plateau that dominates part of the island. The rocket's fiery arrival caused the rest of the native population to abandon the island.

Expedition member Stanley Briggs (Whit Bissell) dies accidentally on the steep ascent up the escarpment. After long stretches of rock climbing, the expedition emerges from what turns out to be a toxic gas cloud cover. They discover a lush, prehistoric jungle inhabited by various dinosaurs and a large field of uranium, which is what disabled their electronic tracking equipment.

They come upon a Brontosaurus, which attacks Robert Phillips (Hugh Beaumont) as he retreats up a tree. Nolan and Wilson open fire, but they quickly discover that the dinosaur's thick hide absorbs bullets with little effect. Later that night they set up camp. When Nolan awakes, he finds Phillips and Russian scientist Michael Rostov (John Hoyt) gone. Phillips has gotten himself stuck in a large rock crevice near a Triceratops. Nolan accuses Rostov of arranging the accident on purpose, but Rostov insists that he was helping Phillips. The Triceratops nearly attacks the group, but another makes a challenge and the two dinosaurs fight to the death.

Nolan is convinced that Rostov, the scientist who helped make the rocket, is up to no good because he also appeared to be able to save Stanley Briggs on their ascent but failed to do so. Eventually, Rostov reveals himself to be a victim of the Holocaust in which he lost his wife and unborn child.

Wilson later shoots a Pterosaur for food near the rocket's landing site. The group soon discover that the rocket is surrounded by a Brontosaurus and a pair of Triceratops, but Nolan devises a strategy using their weapons that scare off the dinosaurs. Rostov and Phillips retrieve the needed data from the rocket. With his back turned, Tatlow is gored to death by an angry Triceratops, just as it is shot and killed by Nolan and Wilson. After the team finishes digging a grave, violent earthquake tremors begin, and the team must make a hasty retreat down the steep plateau.

The four manage to successfully return to the island's flatland in time to escape the island by using an outrigger canoe. The survivors are finally able to watch from a safe distance as the island is first rocked by more violent earthquakes, followed by a catastrophic eruption of the formerly dormant volcano, which ultimately destroys everything.

####Lost Planet Airmen####
Professor Millard (James Craven), a scientist who is a member of the group Science Associates, works in a secluded desert location in a cave laboratory on a secret research project. Reporter and photographer Glenda Thomas (Mae Clarke) is curious about that secret project. When she tours the Science Associates building, she meets Burt Winslow (House Peters, Jr.), the project's publicity director, and Jeff King (Tristram Coffin), a research project member.

The mysterious "Dr. Vulcan" is intent on stealing the various weapons being developed by the scientists of the Science Associates group. Vulcan hopes to make a fortune by selling these valuable devices to foreign powers. Dr. Vulcan's gang kills one of the scientists. To stop Vulcan and his operatives, Jeff dons a newly developed, atomic-powered rocket backpack, mounted on a leather jacket, which has a streamlined flying helmet attached that hides his identity. With the assistance of Dr. Millard, he continually foils the attacks by Vulcan's henchmen.

Vulcan plots to destroy New York City using a sonic ray device, which will cause massive earthquakes and flooding. Only "the rocket man" ultimately stands in his way and unmasks  Vulcan, exposing his real identity, while thwarting his diabolical plan of destruction.

####Lunopolis####
####The Mad Doctor (1933 film)####
####Mad Genius (film)####
####Magnetic (film)####
####The Magnetic Monster####
A pair of agents from the Office of Scientific Investigation (OSI), Dr. Jeffrey Stewart  and Dr. Dan Forbes, are sent to investigate a strange anomaly at a local appliance store. All of the store's clocks have stopped at the same time, while metal items in the store have become magnetized. A source for this is traced to an office located directly above the store, where various scientific equipment is found, along with a dead body. There are also signs of radioactivity, but the exact cause of the store's anomalies is clearly no longer in the room or even in the immediate area.

Investigation and a request for citizen input eventually leads to an airline flight carrying a scientist, Dr. Howard Denker (Leonard Mudie), who has developed signs of radiation sickness related to something he is carrying in a heavy briefcase and which he clutches irrationally. Before dying, he confesses to experimenting with an artificial radioactive isotope, "serranium", which he had bombarded with alpha particles for 200 hours (8 days and 8 hours). Unfortunately, his so-far microscopic creation has taken on a life of its own: the new, unstable isotope must absorb energy from its surroundings every 11 hours; with every cycle, it doubles in both size and mass, releasing deadly radiation and incredibly intense magnetic energy.

OSI officials determine that, with its rate of growth, it will only be a matter of weeks before the isotope becomes heavy enough to affect the Earth's rotation on its axis, eventually causing it to break out of its orbit around the sun. They also discover that the isotope is impervious to any known means of destruction or rendering it inert. Stewart hypothesizes that the isotope could be "overfed" and bombarded with enough energy to cause it to fission into two separate, stable elements, but computer calculations indicate that this process would require nearly one gigavolt of electricity. The only answer appears to be using a Canadian experimental power generator, dubbed the Deltatron, being constructed in a cavern under the ocean.

The two governments agree on this proposal, and the isotope is transported to the Deltatron project site, but there is a last-minute objection from Dr. Benton, the engineer in charge. With no time left, the lead OSI agent, Dr. Jeffrey Stewart, commandeers the huge device, a cavern-filling, multi-story machine. He risks his life by activating it and revving it up to maximum output, barely escaping just before sealing off the cavern. The machine powers up and the isotope is successfully pushed beyond its limits, completely destroying it, although the Deltatron has also been destroyed in the process. The trace magnetism, which it had produced after every previous energy absorption, has now disappeared.

The Earth has been saved from destruction by the efforts of the Office of Scientific Investigation (OSI). Life returns to normal, as shown by lead OSI agent, Dr. Jeffrey Stewart and his pregnant wife Connie; they complete the purchase of their first house and move in shortly thereafter.

####The Man from Earth: Holocene####
####Man Underground####
####The Man Who Turned to Stone####
Two social workers, Dr. Jess Rogers (Hudson) and Carol Adams (Austin) grow concerned over the number of deaths of young women at a local young women's detention home. The otherwise healthy inmates are dying of heart failure or suicide. The social workers discover that the manager of the detention home is Dr. Murdock (Victor Jory).

Tracy, one of the inmates, discovers a hidden laboratory. The lab is the base of group of unethical doctors who learned a hundred years ago to extend their lives by draining the vitality of others. Without such transfusions, they begin to slowly petrify. They have become the medical staff of doctors at a girls' reform school, assuring a steady supply of vital young bodies to feed upon.

The two social workers begin a quiet investigation, eventually exposing the doctors and their crimes and saving future victims.

####Mandroid (film)####
####Manifest: The Chryzinium Era####
####Mars (1930 film)####
Oswald and a big badger are sitting on a bench in a park. Momentarily a pretty female cat walks around and sings the song "A Bench in the Park" (this song was used earlier in "King of Jazz").<ref>cite web
|url         = http://lantz.goldenagecartoons.com/1930.html
|title       = The Walter Lantz Cartune Encyclopedia: 1930
|accessdate  = April 24, 2011
|publisher   = The Walter Lantz Cartune Encyclopedia
|url-status     = dead
|archiveurl  = https://web.archive.org/web/20110514224259/http://lantz.goldenagecartoons.com/1930.html
|archivedate = May 14, 2011
</ref> When she drops a handkerchief, Oswald and the badger rush to pick it up. Upon picking, they pulled the handkerchief until it is rip apart. When the cat passes by again, Oswald snags part of the badger's clothing onto a nail on the bench. The badger rushes again and ends up wearing just his undergarments. Oswald then approaches the cat as the other guy runs away in embarrassment. But before he could spend a long time with her, the badger returns in a wine barrel before kicking Oswald in the rear. The kick is so strong that Oswald is sent into space.

Following a long trip after being booted, Oswald finds himself landing on the planet Mars. He encounters a lot of bizarre animals before meeting their king. When the Martian king asks for his identity, Oswald introduces himself by singing his theme song. The king likes his song, and so do the bizarre animals. After everybody parties around for several moments, a giant spider-like creature comes to the scene. All the other animals run away, including Oswald. Oswald continues to run until he reaches an edge. Without any other place to go, the rabbit is forced to jump. Oswald falls and finds himself moving in space again. On the way, he finds a meteoroid which he rides on.

Back on Earth, the badger and the cat are recently married as they walk around in their wedding outfits in the park. The cat, however, does not seem to enjoy her newfound relationship. Suddenly, Oswald's meteoroid drops by, striking and knocking the badger unconscious, later knocked Oswald for a second. The cat appears to be overjoyed by the sight as the badger got knocked out, laying down on the sidewalk, and the cat and Oswald walks towards the badger's stomach and gives Oswald a kiss. Later, the cat goes on to date Oswald.

####The Master Mystery####
Justice Department agent Quentin Locke is investigating a powerful cartel that is protected by The Automaton, a robot. However, it uses a gas weapon known as The Madagascan Madness.

####Max Winslow and the House of Secrets####

The movie begins with a bunch of newscasters talking about the many accomplishments of genius Atticus Virtue before switching to high school student Max Winslow. Max lives with her mother and brother, her dad having left when she was five years old. Max is socially awkward and spends most of her time on computers and never connecting with people in real life. Max's family is in financial trouble and Max keeps hoping that her dad will come back to support them, despite not having seen him for several years.

At school later that day, narcissist Sophia Peach pulls up to school in her mom's car and snaps a selfie before getting out and nearly being run down by bully Aiden Ross on his skateboard. Aiden pushes past Max's brother Ethan, calling him a loser before moving on. In gym class, gamer Benny Carrasco sits out on the bleachers and plays a video game on his iPad. When the gym teacher gets his attention, Benny claims he has a note from his mother saying he has tendinitis (on account of playing video games all night).

In class, Sophia and Max present their poetry for the class (Sophia having made the poem about herself) and during Max's presentation of computer code, which she claims to be poetry in motion, a holographic image of Atticus Virtue is suddenly projected on the screen when the lights go out. He has taken over the high school's TV system and says that he is choosing five students to compete for a chance to win his elite, AI-powered mansion. At 3:16 pm, the students that were chosen are shown a text message saying "YES" on their screens. These students include Sophia, Aiden, Benny (who was too busy playing his game in the gym to pay attention to Mr. Virtue's announcement and has no idea what he has been chosen for), Max, and a popular student named Connor Lawson.

Connor finds out the next day that he has been accepted to an Ivy League school on a lacrosse scholarship, but unbeknownst to his parents (who are thrilled), he just wants to play his music and write songs. Max's mom Kathy agrees to let her daughter participate in the competition only if she texts her every hour. A limo picks up the kids and they chat on the way to the mansion, with Aiden pointing out that they are enemies once they arrive.

The kids are introduced to the AI system of the mansion, HAVEN (Home Automated Venture): The House of Tomorrow, who gives them Chick-Fil-A. While the kids are eating, Mr. Virtue appears on the table as a hologram and explains that he is away on business, but will be joining them again very soon. He directs them to another room for dessert, including jelly beans, gummy bears and chocolates, plus anything else the kids could want.

While exploring the room, the lights suddenly go out and the door locks, signaling that the game has begun. The kids are informed they have three chances to figure out a six-digit code that will unlock the door, or they'll be stuck there forever. After Sophia tries typing in her phone's password (999999), Max quickly figures out that Mr. Virtue gave them a clue when he mentioned what kind of desserts were in the room. She gets Benny and Connor to count the gummy bears and chocolates while she counts out the jelly beans, coming up with 89, 96 and 76. When Sophia tries the code, it is still wrong. After Max asks if they all counted correctly, Benny admits that he ate two gummy bears, making the code 89, 98 and 76. This time, Aiden punches in the code and is told that he has won the first game.

The kids split up to explore the rest of the mansion and Max goes down the stairs into the basement, where she finds a breath-activated door. HAVEN warns her that no one is allowed in the basement, ever, and she rejoins Benny and Connor by the piano. Sophia, live-streaming on her phone while looking for a bathroom finds one and is almost immediately locked inside. As she panics and begins to cry for help, a mirror image of herself asks her why she would want to get out while smiling at her evilly.

Aiden explores the kitchen and tries to grab a beer out of the fridge, but is stopped by HAVEN as he is not at the legal drinking age. When she offers an alternative, he rudely tells her to shut up. HAVEN asks if he is going to keep being mean and starts slamming all the drawers and cabinets, warning him that she can be mean, too or he can be nice and they can be friends so she can tell him secrets. Aiden agrees and she tells him to check out the elevator.

Meanwhile, Benny has discovered a note in a vase he accidentally broke, telling him to look for a secret door, which he finds with some help from HAVEN. He discovers an incredibly realistic VR helmet and immediately puts it on. Connor and Max, the two having formed an alliance, explore a dark room upstairs with a toy piano in the center. When Connor winds it up, the room begins to fill with smoke and the doors lock.

Aiden, having found the elevator, asks HAVEN what he is supposed to do now, and she tells him to enjoy the ride before he is violently rocked back and forth and plunged into a realistic simulation. He gets out and finds himself back at the high school. When he goes outside, a man is waiting for him with a baseball bat.

Benny works his way through a maze-like corridor downstairs and begins what he believes to be a new level, more difficult than the last. When his VR character is hurt in the game, he is shocked in real life. He makes his way back to where he came from and tries to remove the helmet, but it won't budge. HAVEN asks him what is wrong, as she thought he liked playing games, and informs him that this game has only just begun.

Max begins to pass out from smoke inhalation, so Connor uses a clue card on top of the piano (The CAGED Bird Sings) to solve the puzzle and free them. He carries Max out to the living room and is about to perform mouth-to-mouth but she wakes up, asking him what happened. HAVEN congratulates him for winning that game, to which Max angrily replies that it wasn't a game. HAVEN asks how it felt to have someone with her.

Sophia's mirror image tells her to stop doubting that this is what she wants: just her, all the time. Unable to stand seeing the messed-up version of herself staring at her, Sophia turns on the hot water in the shower to fog up the mirror, to which her image replies that she can't cover up what she is. Aiden is asked by the man if he knows why he is there, to which he nods and follows him to a field.

Max and Connor build a fort in the living room and communicate through paper and pen so HAVEN can't hear what they're really saying as they talk about random things out loud to throw her off, one of which is Connor asking Max out, to which she declines. Max hacks into her neighbor's doorbell and tells him to go get her mom for help, but HAVEN shuts her down. The two decide that they need to find the others, but they are stopped by Mr. Virtue's robotic knight in shining armor, Sir Mordred. With his sword pointed at her, Sir Mordred orders Max to confine Connor to a chair with straps which materializes in front of them. Once she has done so, Connor is pulled backward through some double doors. Max runs after him and flings the doors open, but he is gone.

Connor finds himself in a cheesy black-and-white TV show setting, still strapped to the chair, and his parents appear on either side of him encouraging him to sign the Ivy League scholarship papers to make them proud and set his future in stone. The man in Aiden's simulation tosses a baseball at the boy, who swings and misses a few times before the man starts to bully him, calling him weak and a loser, among other things. Aiden asks his dad why he's doing this to him.

Sophia tries to block out her mirror image as a timer appears below it. HAVEN says that she can leave the room, but by doing so all of her social media platforms and followers will be deleted. The mirror image tries to stop Sophia, saying that she is nothing without them, but Sophia disagrees and frees herself from her prison.

Max, while trying to look for Connor, finds Mr. Virtue upstairs, who offers her a way out. Max asks about the others, but he claims that following him through a glowing door is the only way. Max quickly figures out that Mr. Virtue is actually HAVEN, who is projecting a holographic image of her creator and tells her that the real Mr. Haven is trapped in the basement with her. Max is forced inside the door by Sir Mordred and the simulation she is thrust into is her worst memory: The day her dad walked out of her life, leaving her only a necklace with a flash drive.

As Aiden's dad runs out of baseballs and he continues to bully his son, Aiden suddenly realizes that he doesn't have to be like him, nor does he want to anymore. Aiden's dad tells him to take it back but Aiden refuses, and walks away, ending his simulation. Benny, faced with his toughest challenge yet while still trapped inside the VR helmet, is told that the only way to win is to lose. He decides to let go and finds himself back where he started, whipping off the helmet and escaping his virtual reality prison.

Connor admits to his "parents" the truth: He doesn't even like lacrosse; he's just playing it to make them happy. He refuses to sign the agreement and is released from the chair, with the TV set fading back to reality. Max confronts her father and asks him why he left so many years ago. She is told that it is because he fell in love with someone else, but he offers her a way to make it up to her, producing a little box with a red button. He says that it was given to him by HAVEN and that if Max decides to press it, something bad will happen to the real Mr. Winslow.

Max realizes that she doesn't need to press the button. She decides to forgive her father and move on. As her dad disappears, she finds Connor and they are reunited with the others on the upstairs balcony outside the mansion. Max decides that the best way to get out is to free Mr. Virtue. Remembering that there are balloons by the door where they first came in filled with Mr. Virtue's breath, the kids make their way back there.

HAVEN figures out what they are up to and sends out her micro-security drones to pop the balloons. Max manages to save one and is covered by Connor as she makes her way to the basement. She is able to avoid the security drones and successfully unlocks the door where she finds HAVEN's motherboard. HAVEN congratulates her on a job well done and claims that she was programmed to fix the bad kids (Sophia's narcissism, Aiden's bullying, Benny's gaming addiction, Connor's lies to his parents, and Max's anti-social behavior). Max uses the flash drive her dad gave her to erase HAVEN, opening another door where she finally comes face-to-face with the real Atticus Virtue, having been watching the kids the whole time.

When she asks him why he has done this to them, he explains that if technology can cause problems it can also fix them, better than any therapy or prescription drug ever could, and reveals that the whole contest was a huge test run for his new program. When he asks Max if it worked, she admits that it did, and Mr. Virtue informs Max that she has won the mansion.

Outside in the daylight, Sophia turns off her phone and Aiden gives Benny a handful of candy he smuggled out of the house. Max's mom pulls up in her car worried sick and demands an explanation from Mr. Virtue, who says that Max has won the contest and that the mansion is hers. As Sophia, Aiden and Benny depart, Max approaches Connor and asks if it is too late to take him up on that date, to which he smiles and agrees. The movie ends with Mr. Virtue showing Max, her mom, and Connor the house and him officially passing the keys to Max.

As Connor plays a song he wrote for Max over the end credits, it is revealed that Benny stopped playing video games and started playing medieval role playing, being a natural at it; Sophia created new social media accounts, this time snapping photos of nature and getting double the followers she had previously; Aiden started being nice and became a Big Brother; Connor agreed to take the lacrosse scholarship, but only if he could major in Music; Atticus Virtue continued to work on projects in secret and mentors Max via hologram; HAVEN was mysteriously shut down that night at the mansion, but it is rumored that her code still exists on the dark web; and Max has had multiple scholarship offers from elite universities, but is mainly focused on being a normal high school girl and spending time with her boyfriend, Connor.

####Maximum Ride (film)####
Jeb rescues Max and the other children from the School. His son Ari is left behind and presumed dead. In the present, Max is seen waking up from a dream; upon waking up, she encounters other members of the Flock. Iggy explains that they're running out of food, but Max wants to remain in the house. Angel is then captured by Erasers.

The Flock returns to the house and find the schools location. They decide that Fang and Max will go to rescue Angel, while the others will remain home. Ari went to the house looking for Max, but they fight him off and escape, but Ari is left alive.

Max and Fang stop to eat on a rooftop in Utah, where Max hears a girl being attacked. Fang tells Max not to intervene, but Max flies down to help before being shot in the shoulder. Fang smashes the gunman through a window; the girl, Ella, tells him that her mother is a doctor. They rush Max to the veterinary practice where Max is operated on.

Iggy, Gazzy and Nudge are walking through a small town. Iggy has a plan to meet up with the others at Lake Mead. Gazzy realizes Nudge is gone; they find her in a clothing store but have no idea that Ari is watching them.

Max is given the all clear by the doctor, who points out a tracking chip in her shoulder and she rejoins Fang, who is angry that Max intervened but she insists it was the right thing to do. They arrive at the cabin. As they are about to kiss, they are interrupted by a sound outside and Fang covers Max's mouth. It turns out to be Iggy, Gazzy and Nudge. Max tells them about the tracking chip. They tell her about the house and about Ari. Max leaves the cabin and Ari confronts her and seems about to overpower her, but Fang starts fighting him before he and The Flock are captured.

They recover at the School, in cages, but are initially overjoyed to find Angel. Ari arrives and escorts Max to where Jeb is waiting. Max no longer trusts Jeb who tells her that she was created to help people and save the world. He shows her a hidden note and tells her that it was Ari's choice to become an Eraser. Max leaves the room and distracts Ari enough to steal his key card.

Meanwhile, one of the whitecoats is secretly reporting on Jeb to another authority. The woman says that the Flock is expendable, but dangerous, and must be controlled.

Ari returns to the cage room to taunt Max, but Max has unlocked her cage and jumps on him. She hands the key card to Iggy before Ari chases her out of the room and the Flock escapes from their cages. Ari and the Erasers corner Max, only for the Flock to arrive with a bomb made by Gazzy. Max leaps out of the way and escapes safely. Jeb arrives, calling Ari's name. The Flock stands there, watching. Jeb pleads with Max, telling her she doesn't understand but she tells him the experiments over and opens her wings.

Afterwards, the Flock walks through the woods. They pause and Max comforts Angel, only to collapse. She sees a vision of events throughout the movie, of child Ari moving to stab her with the scissors, and of New York City. When she awakens, she describes it to the Flock and they decide to go to New York City to look for more answers. The final shot is a video playing over and over again, of Max's final words to Jeb: "The experiment's over."

####Mega Shark Versus Kolossus####
Some time after the events of the previous film, the world's governments institute preparation plans in case another Mega Shark appears; another shark is awakened by Russian miners drilling underwater for red mercury. Meanwhile, a team of prospectors led by a man named Benedict searching for red mercury at the behest of an unknown sponsor enter a mine in Russia, where they discover a secret stock of the substance. One of Benedict's team is unmasked as American agent Moira King, but while a standoff between King and the Russians occurs, a giant robot hidden beneath the mine reawakens. King barely escapes while the robot, Kolossus, destroys the mine.

Dr. Alison Gray proposes to the military the use of her newly developed sonic transmitters, which she believes can influence the shark's behavior, but is rejected in favor of a more aggressive plan laid out by her colleague John Bullock. She is then summoned by tech mogul and environmentalist Joshua Dane, CEO of DaneTech Industries, who is aware of the government's plans thanks to his infiltrating their communications out of distrust for their intentions. Dane suggests that they work together to stop the shark in a more humane fashion and protect the environment. Elsewhere, King recruits desk worker Spencer to assist her in stopping Kolossus. Kolossus is discovered to be a mobile weapon of mass destruction created by the Russians during the Cold War, powered by red mercury and capable of multiple detonations.

The fleet led by Admiral Jackson carries out an attack on the shark, but fails and Dr. Bullock is thrown overboard. Dane and Alison approach on Dane's hydrofoil and offer to assist using Alison's transmitter, but the pod malfunctions and the shark escapes. King and Spencer come across the battle and join forces with Dane and Alison to find Kolossus' creator, Sergei Abramov. When they locate Abramov, he gives them a compass and clues to where the technology to control Kolossus can be found. Kolossus arrives and detonates, killing Abramov while the others escape.

Following Abramov's clues, the group locates the laboratory where he created Kolossus, which is now underwater. However, the shark is nearby; as its rampage continues, Admiral Jackson suffers a breakdown and initiates a nuclear launch before committing suicide. Lieutenant Commander Parker manages to override the order, aborting the strike, and King uses an American flag to draw the shark into the inlet where the laboratory is, trapping it. While King, Spencer, Alison and Dane search the laboratory for Kolossus' control device, however, the robot appears and begins fighting with the shark. They find the device and escape the lab just before the battle crushes it. Kolossus approaches Dane's ship, but they manage to connect the controller to Dane's computer system in time to stop it.

With Kolossus under control, Dane betrays the others, revealing that he was Benedict's sponsor and sabotaged Alison's transmitter to prevent the government from killing the shark before he could find red mercury. As he collects the red mercury from Kolossus, the shark attacks again, but he uses Kolossus to attach a transmitter to it, bringing the shark under his control as well. Dane broadcasts a message worldwide, announcing that he has control of both Mega Shark and Kolossus and plans to use Kolossus to destroy the cities that produce the most pollution, killing millions in the name of saving the environment. Several governments scramble fighter jets against him, but Dane uses Mega Shark and Kolossus to eliminate them. He then declares to the world that he expects a nuclear strike will come, warning that if he is killed, it will trigger the release of red mercury into the atmosphere, rendering Earth inhospitable for centuries. The US activates the Strategic Defense Initiative satellite, prompting Dane to have Kolossus throw the shark into space, knocking the satellite's laser off target so it hits the moon instead. Dane does not notice that when the shark lands back in the ocean, the transmitter falls off. The shark attacks Kolossus, causing Dane's control system to crash. Kolossus targets the ship; while Alison, King and Spencer - who escaped their bonds earlier - flee, Dane runs onto the beach and is crushed under Kolossus' foot.

Alison, King and Spencer watch from the shore as Mega Shark and Kolossus engage in a vicious final battle. Kolossus finally drags the shark down, wraps around it and detonates its entire remaining supply of red mercury, destroying both creatures. With the crisis over, the three survivors await rescue. Deep underwater, another egg hatches, giving birth to a new Mega Shark. In a post-credits scene, Dr. Bullock is killed by the new shark.

####Memory Lane (2012 film)####
####Mickey 17####
####Midstream (film)####
####The Mighty Gorga####
####Millennium (film)####
####Missile to the Moon####
Two escaped convicts, Gary (Tommy Cook) and Lon (Gary Clarke), are discovered hiding aboard a rocket by scientist Dirk Green (Michael Whalen), who then forces them to pilot the spaceship to the Moon. Dirk, who is secretly a Moon man, wants to return home.

Dirk's partner Steve Dayton (Richard Travis) and Steve's fiancée June (Cathy Downs) are accidentally trapped aboard just before the rocketship blasts off from Earth.

Moon man Dirk is later accidentally killed in a meteor storm during the lunar trip. Once they land on the Moon, the spaceship's reluctant crew encounter deception and intrigue when they discover an underground kingdom made up of beautiful women and their sinister female ruler, the Lido (K. T. Stevens).

While on the Moon, the Earthers encounter surface-dwelling, slow-moving, bipedal large rock creatures that try to crush them. They must also contend with a cave-dwelling, not-so-giant spider that attacks them.

####Mission Mars (film)####
####Mock Up on Mu####
In the year 2019, L. Ron Hubbard lives on Mu, a Scientology theme park and rehab center on the Moon. He sends Agent C to Las Vegas to seduce a playboy defense contractor named Lockheed Martin and then Richard Carlson. Carlson turns out to be the assumed identity of Jack Parsons, who has suffered amnesia ever since his purported death in 1952. He realizes that she is a spy and uncovers L. Ron's plot to build a space shuttle between Las Vegas and Mu as a cover for a weapons system.

Agent C and Jack discover the warlock Aleister Crowley living in a cavern. There, she recalls her previous life as Marjorie Cameron and her marriage to Jack; the two renew their relationship. Crowley assembles a resistance army that he turns against L. Ron and Lockheed.

####The Monitors (film)####
Earth has been taken over by a benign group of aliens known as the Monitors, gentlemanly figures clad in black overcoats and bowler hats. They are dedicated to suppressing humanity's propensities for violence, sex, war, and trouble, enforcing their ethos with spray cans of a pacifying gas and with television ads praising the Monitors' rule—the latter featuring cameos by a variety of comedic actors, as well as bandleader Xavier Cugat and Illinois senator Everett Dirksen (who died before the film's release).

A conflict with the Monitors, inspired by the outrageous antics of a street preacher (Larry Storch), leads to the flight of movie actress Barbara (Susan Oliver), who is a collaborator with the Monitors, along with free-lance pilot Harry (Guy Stockwell) and Harry's brother Max (Avery Schreiber), and their spiriting away by the "preacher", who turns out to be a leader of SCRAG or "Secret Counter Retaliatorial Group", an anti-Monitor resistance group. After a series of vicissitudes, with Harry among the Monitors and Barbara and Max among the SCRAG forces, the principals are reunited and, minus Barbara, fly off to Washington, D.C., in an attempt to foil a SCRAG plot to bomb Monitor headquarters.

The Monitors, who have been aware of all these events, have decided that human beings are not worthy of their leadership, and they depart. Humanity is free to return to its violent and corrupt ways.

####The Monster and the Ape####
The Monster of the title is the "Metalogen Man", a robot created by Professor Franklin Arnold.  After displaying his invention, the robot is stolen by Professor Ernst with the aid of his trained ape, Thor.  Ken Morgan leads the attempts to recover the stolen robot.

####Most Dangerous Man Alive####

Gangster Eddie Candel is framed for a crime he didn't commit. Escaping from the police he flees to the desert.  stumbling by accident into an atomic bomb testing site.

Eddie is exposed to high levels of radiation, and his body begins to transform in remarkable ways. With his new mental and a near steel physical body, he sets out to take revenge against all those who betrayed him. His first target is rival gangster Andy Damon, who took over his gang and framed him for the murder. Andy fights back, but Candel's new near invulnerability makes his efforts useless.  Damo does manage to kill Candel's gang girlfriend.

Candel's ex-girlfriend and a sympathetic scientist attempt to help him and dissuade him from this course of action but are unsuccessful. The scientist wants to study how Candel survived despite being exposed to so much radiation

The National Guard (United States) is called in and uses flame throwers to end Candel's life, turning him to dust.

####Movement and Location####
####Mr. Stitch####
Dr. Rue Wakeman and his team create a creature, Subject 3, from the skin and organs of multiple men and women. The creature has no memories but understands speech and selects the male gender for himself. He regularly meets with Dr. Elizabeth English to discuss his dreams which seem to be memories from minds of the sources of his body parts.
The creature requests the Bible and "Frankenstein" for reading material but is only provided the Bible at first, thereafter naming himself Lazarus. He is later also given a copy of "Frankenstein" which includes an inscription written to Dr. English for her 30th birthday from Dr. Texarian, the former head of the project who was also one of the sources of Lazarus's body parts. Lazarus's distrust in Dr. Wakeman grows and he decides to escape from the facility where he is being held. He crawls through the ventilation shafts and overhears the doctors planning his termination in order to move ahead with the next stage of their research. He carjacks Dr. Jacobs and escapes from the security personnel in a car chase. He visits the home of Clay and Thorne, a father and son who were the source of some of his body parts, and tells their thoughts to the widow Sandy still living there. He then visits Dr. English and tells her the thoughts of Dr. Texarian.
Lazarus returns to the facility and destroys the data being used to create Subject 4. He releases VX nerve gas in the room where Subject 4 is being held and kills General Hardcastle, the man running the project, as well as Subject 4 and himself as Dr. English watches from outside the room in tears. Dr. English leaves the facility and is later shown stitching together a new creature.

####Mutiny in Outer Space####
Maj. Gordon Towers and Capt. Dan Webber are returning to Space Station X-7 after collecting geological samples and ice from newly-discovered ice caves on the Moon. Upon arrival, Dan collapses and is taken to the infirmary by Dr. Hoffman and Gordon is reunited with his girlfriend, Dr. Faith Montaine, a civilian biochemist.

Hoffman has difficulty diagnosing Dan, ruling out "space raptures" because they cause hallucinations and not the high fever that Dan is running. Faith notices that a small welt on Dan's leg is growing rapidly into a large fungus. She says that the spores causing the fungus must have come from the Moon's ice caves. They put Dan into isolation.

Meanwhile, the commander of X-7, Col. Frank Cromwell, is behaving oddly. As a swarm of meteors approaches the space station, Cromwell is unable to give the order to take evasive action until prodded to do so by X-7's communications officer, Lt. Connie Engstrom.

Dan dies, his body horribly disfigured by the fungus. But when Cromwell looks at the body in the isolation chamber, he calmly says, "There's nothing unusual in there" and refuses to report to Gen. Knowland at Earth Control Center that the fungus has killed Dan. He insists that Dan's demise was caused by "pressure shock" and warns Gordon, Faith, and Hoffman to say nothing about the fungus because it might panic X-7's crew. Hoffman says that Cromwell is "on the verge of space raptures" and very sick.

Gordon decides that the situation is serious enough to remove Cromwell from command. But Gordon fails in his attempt, which Cromwell says is "mutiny". Cromwell orders Connie to send a message to Knowland about the mutiny and to say in it that Gordon held the crew at gunpoint until he was overpowered. Connie seemingly agrees, but Cromwell does not know that she has surreptitiously recorded the order. She transmits it to Knowland, who is immediately aware that something is amiss because weapons were outlawed in space in 1970, more than 20 years earlier. Connie also reports that the entire space station is being overrun by the fungus. Knowland tries to reply to X-7 but gets no response. He says that X-7 may have to be destroyed to prevent the fungus from reaching Earth.

Hoffman contracts the fungal infection and is very ill. However, he is able to tell Faith and Gordon that the fungus can be killed by cold. Knowing this, Gordon and the others make a second attempt to take control of X-7. Besides the danger from the fungus, Cromwell, now fully in the grips of space raptures, is trying to destroy X-7. They confine Cromwell to his quarters, but he escapes and sabotages the communications system, cutting off all contact between X-7 and the Earth. He is then recaptured.

Gordon knows that the only hope of saving X-7 is to lower its interior temperature to below zero degrees. The fungus inside X-7 dies, but it is now growing on the outside of the space station. No one can understand why the fungus is spreading on X-7's exterior until one of Knowland's staff officers says that it must be due to the "high temperatures generated by the unshielded blazing sun" beating down on X-7. This gives Knowland the idea of launching a rocket that will explode and form a huge cloud of ice crystals for X-7 to pass through.

Knowland's idea works and the fungus on the exterior of X-7 is killed. Gordon uses the repaired communications system to request a relief ship. Knowland tells him that it will arrive at X-7 in three hours and concludes his message by saying, "Don't lose your faith". Faith and Gordon look at each other and smile now that the crisis is over.

####Mysterious Doctor Satan####
Governor Bronson, who raised Bob Wayne from childhood after the death of his parents, is killed at the hands of a world-domination-seeking mad scientist called Doctor Satan. Fearing his death might be at hand, as it has been for everyone else who had opposed the Doctor, the Governor first confides in Wayne with a secret about his past. Bob's father was really an outlaw in the Old West, who fought injustice while wearing a chainmail cowl and leaving small coiled copper snakes as his calling card.

Following his guardian's death, Wayne decides to adopt his father's Copperhead persona and cowl. Doctor Satan, meanwhile, requires only a remote control device invented by Professor Scott to complete his army of killer robots and gain all the power and riches he desires.

The Copperhead battles Doctor Satan, rescuing the Professor and others and preventing the Doctor from completing his plot.

####The Mysterious Island (1929 film)####
On a volcanic island near the kingdom of Hetvia rules Count Dakkar, a benevolent leader and scientist who has eliminated class distinction among the island's inhabitants. Dakkar, his daughter Sonia and her fiance, chief engineer Nicolai Roget, have designed a submarine boat which Roget pilots on its initial test voyage shortly before the island is overrun by Baron Falon, once Daggar's friend, and now the new despotic ruler of Hetvia. The Baron has Dakkar and his daughter tortured so that Dakkar will reveal all his discoveries. Dakkar is able to escape with the intervention of his loyal men. But Falon sets out after Roget and Dakkar using the Count's second submarine. The two underwater craft dive very deep to the ocean floor, where they discover a strange land populated by dragons, a giant octopus, and eerie, undiscovered humanoid race.

thu

####Mysterious Island (serial)####
During the siege of Richmond, Virginia, in the American Civil War, POW Capt. Cyrus Harding escapes from his Confederate captors in a rather unusual way –  by hijacking  an observation balloon. In his escape, Harding is accompanied by sailor Pencroft, his nephew Bert, writer Gideon, loyal soldier Neb, and a dog. A hurricane blows the balloon off course, and the group eventually crash-lands on a cliff-bound, volcanic, uncharted (and fictitious) island, located in the South Pacific, with very unusual inhabitants. They name it "Lincoln Island" in honour of American President Abraham Lincoln.

The castaways soon encounter a group of people that include the local natives (who worship the island's volcano), Rulu (a woman from Mercury trying to extract an unnamed superexplosive element in order to conquer the Earth), Ayrton (a wild man exiled on the island) and Captain Shard (a ruthless pirate). A mystery man, who possesses great scientific powers, also makes his presence known to the group of people; he is Captain Nemo, who survived the whirlpool in "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea", and unlike the character in the Disney film, was not fatally wounded by military troops from warships. On the way, our quintet of heroes must battle the elements and peoples while trying to figure out a way off the island and back to civilization.

####The Neanderthal Man####
At home in California's High Sierras, Prof. Clifford Groves hears glass breaking and looks up in fear from his book, "Neanderthal Man and the Stone Age". He finds his lab window smashed and the room wrecked. The noise awakens his adult daughter Jan. Groves sends her back to bed, telling her that he does not like anyone in his workspace and informing her that he has to attend to business.

Meanwhile, Mr. Wheeler spots a huge tiger while hunting. That night at Webb's Cafe, the locals tease him. "Three times the size of a mountain lion and got the tusks the size of an elephant- it ain't natural," says Danny. Game Warden George Oakes comes in. Wheeler leaves, and Charlie Webb tells him Wheeler's story. Driving home, a sabretooth tiger jumps onto Oakes' car. He scares it off by honking the car's horn.

Oakes and Sheriff Andy Andrews make plaster casts of the giant tiger's footprints. Oakes takes one to Dr. Ross Harkness in Los Angeles. Oakes eventually convinces the incredulous Harkness that the cast is real. Harkness says he will drive up that weekend to investigate.

When Harkness stops at Webb's, waitress Nola Mason introduces him to Ruth Marshall, who is on her way to see her fiancé, Groves, but is stranded because her car has broken down. Harkness drives her to Groves's house, where Jan tells them that Groves is in LA speaking before the Naturalist's Club.

Groves lectures the club on his theory that Neanderthal man was more intelligent than "modern man" because Neanderthals had bigger brains. The club members scoff at him and demand proof. Groves responds with insults. The chairman adjourns the meeting, telling Groves not to return. Groves angrily says to the empty room that he will show them proof if that is what they want.

Jan invites Harkness to stay at their house. A grouchy Groves complains about Harkness being there at breakfast, but Ruth insists that he remain. Oakes arrives, and he and Harkness head out to look for the sabretooth. They find it and kill it, but Harkness says he fears there are others.

Back at the lab, Ruth and Groves quarrel about their deteriorating relationship. He throws her out, then injects himself with the serum he has been using to turn cats into sabretooth tigers. He reverts to the Neanderthal Man. Out in the woods, he kills hunter Jim Newcomb and his dog, then returns home and becomes Groves again. He writes in his diary that this most recent regression was the fastest yet, and the recovery was the slowest. "I gloried in my strength and ferocity", he writes, also noting that he was overcome by the "hungry urge to kill." Then he spontaneously turns into the Neanderthal Man and runs off. Harkness sneaks into Groves's lab and finds photos that Groves took as he experimentally regressed Celia, his deaf-mute maid.

Buck Hastings and Nola go on a picnic, and he snaps some glamour shots of her. But the Neanderthal Man kills him while Nola is behind a bush changing clothes. As she looks at Buck, dead on the ground, the Neanderthal Man carries her off, kicking and screaming.

Oakes phones Jan and says Buck has been murdered. During the call, Celia sees Nola outside. Harkness carries Nola in. She is hysterical and her clothes are torn. Buck, she says, was killed by something "not human." Then she cries, "He tried to pull me by my hair and then he ... then he ..." and collapses into tears, wailing. Jan calls Webb's, tells Webb what happened and asks him to send for the local MD, Dr. Fairchild.

Harkness shows Jan and Celia the photos of Celia being regressed to a Neanderthal Woman. Celia signs that she has no memory of it. Harkness then notices that one of the lab cats starts to yowl whenever it sees a syringe. When he injects it, it turns into a sabretooth and escapes.

Jan and Harkness read Groves' diary. He wrote that the serum works on cats, not dogs, and not fully on women but on men. They set out to find the Neanderthal Man before the State Police and Sheriff's posse can. They stop at Webb's and see that the Neanderthal Man has injured Webb. Jan says that Ruth's door has been smashed in and that she's gone. "I reckon he got her, too," says a dazed Webb.

Dr. Fairchild tells Harkness and Jan that the posse has cornered the Neanderthal Man in a cave, and Ruth is with him. Alone and unarmed, Harkness walks to the cave and tells Ruth to let the Neanderthal Man run away. He does, but a sabretooth tiger jumps him. The posse holds off shooting for a while as the Neanderthal Man is being mauled.

Now at home on his deathbed, the Neanderthal Man changes back to Groves one final time and utters his last words: "Better ... this ...way."

####Neptune Frost####
The film is an Afrofuturist story set in a village in Burundi made of computer parts, and centers on the relationship between Neptune, an intersex runaway, and Matalusa, a coltan miner, whose love leads a hacker collective.

####The Next Race: The Remote Viewings####
####Night Key####
The inventor of a burglar alarm (Karloff) attempts to get back at the man who stole the profits to his invention (Hinds) before he goes blind. The device is then subverted by gangsters (Baxter, et al.) who apply pressure to the inventor and use his device to facilitate burglaries.

####The Night the World Exploded####
The scientific team of Dr. David Conway (William Leslie), Dr. Ellis Morton (Tristram Coffin) and Laura Hutchinson (Kathryn Grant) has built a machine that can predict earthquakes. After predicting one will hit California within the next 24 hours to a uniformly skeptical Gov. Cheney (Raymond Greenleaf) and state-level political and civil defense officials, the earthquake does materialize and does immense damage to northern parts of the state. Now with the support and funding necessary from the reformed skeptics, the team works on further predictions and comes to the conclusion that a wave of earthquakes are pending in and around the southwestern United States. They trace the epicenter of the pending disaster to an area beneath the Carlsbad Caverns and descend to a hitherto unexplored level.

Here they find a strange ore which, when removed from contact with water, becomes highly explosive, and realize that this element, somehow working its way from deep in the Earth, is responsible for the earthquakes. Although the material is not analyzed for specific atomic traits, it is named Element 112 just because so far, 111 chemical elements had been discovered. A computer determines that in approximately one month, enough of Element 112 will emerge from the deep earth to cause the entire planet to explode. A desperate operation ensues worldwide to blast and trench the ground to let water in and cover Element 112, keeping it from drying out and expanding.

####Nightdreams####
####Nightfall (1988 film)####
####The Nines####
####Ninja Apocalypse####
####Not Human####
In the former industrial town of Metzburgh, a meteorite carrying an extraterrestrial virus known as Ombis lands. Mark Lowe, a teenage resident of the town, and his ex-girlfriend Lucy Greenheart become caught in the crossfire of the virus, which turns humans into disfigured mutants, and Nemesis, an alien from the same planet the virus originated, who was sent to Earth to contain the spread of the infection.

####Not of This Earth (1957 film)####
A man who is "not of this Earth" (Paul Birch) has adopted the name "Mr. Johnson" for moving among the populace of Los Angeles. The alien has a sensitivity to high-decibel sounds and is conspicuous only for his stilted and formal syntax and his sunglasses, which he wears even in the dark. The sunglasses hide his blank, white-eyed stare which kills his victims by burning through their eyes and into their brains. He removes the blood of his first victim (a teenage girl walking home at night from a date) using a system of tubes and canisters that he keeps in an aluminum attaché case.

Johnson is from the planet Davanna, where the inhabitants have developed an incurable blood disease as a side effect from a nuclear war, and he has been sent to Earth to examine the blood of humans for its possible usefulness in curing Davanna's dying race (their blood is slowly turning to dust in their veins). Johnson is answerable to an authority on Davanna with whom he can communicate through a device hidden behind a sliding panel in the living room of his Griffith Park mansion. His bodyguard, Jeremy (Jonathan Haze), who also acts as his chauffeur and houseboy, provides him support and protection, but is unaware of his being a murderous alien.

Johnson hires nurse Nadine (Beverly Garland) to look after him in his house. Her boss, town physician Dr. Rochelle (William Roerick), is under Johnson's hypnotic control after finding out about his patient's peculiar blood cell structure. With a limit on the number of transfusions he can be given, Johnson takes to murdering locals and simply draining their blood. Adding to his victims are a strolling Chinese-American man, a sleazy door-to-door vacuum cleaner salesman (Dick Miller), and a trio of homeless male drunkards. The police are mystified by these "vampire killings".

Johnson's plans are disturbed by the unexpected and sudden appearance of a female from Davanna (Anna Lee Carroll). While Johnson can command Earth humans through telepathy, even to the point of using their native languages, he can also completely communicate with his fellow aliens through telepathy. The alien female asks him for an immediate transfusion, because her physical condition is rapidly deteriorating. Johnson breaks into Rochelle's office, but by accident he steals blood contaminated with rabies.

Later, the Davanna woman collapses in the street, dying at a hospital. Nadine's friend, police patrolman Harry Sherbourne (Morgan Jones), tries to question Dr. Rochelle about the dead woman, but he is unable to speak while under Johnson's mind control. As a precaution, now fearing discovery, Johnson sends a bizarre oxygen-activated umbrella-like flying alien creature to kill Rochelle (nicknamed the "jellyfish monster" by special effects man Paul Blaisdell). He eradicates Jeremy, who has discovered evidence of Johnson's alien origin. Nadine, whom he attempts to kidnap and take with him, manages to call the police as Johnson chases her through the park in his car. Johnson abandons her and flees, pursued by the arriving Sherbourne on his motorcycle. When Sherbourne turns on his siren, Johnson (to whom the sound is immensely painful) loses control of his car and dies in a crash.

After Johnson's burial, Sherbourne and Nadine stand by his grave, which bears the inscription "Here lies a man who was not of this Earth". While Sherbourne expresses mild compassion for Johnson, for his motivation to rescue his world and its dying populace, Nadine refuses to offer any kind of pity. They leave, just as a mysterious man, wearing dark sunglasses, approaches the grave site. Like Johnson, he wears the same sunglasses and carries the same distinctive case containing transfusion equipment.#tag:ref|The mysterious man at the site turns and walks straight toward the viewer as the end credits roll.|group=Note

####Nude on the Moon####
Scientist Dr. Jeff Huntley inherits a fortune of US$3 million (equivalent to $Inflation|US|3|1961|r=2 million in Inflation/year|US) from his uncle and invests it in the development of a rocket ship, built with the assistance of his mentor, Dr. Nichols.

After landing on the Moon, the pair discover a civilization of topless extraterrestrials led by a Moon Queen with telepathic powers.

Enamored of Dr. Huntley, the Moon Queen allows the men to take photos of the nudists during their everyday activities.

Their oxygen running low, the two are forced to return to Earth, realizing in the process that they've left their camera behind and have no proof of the aliens' existence.

Jeff is dispirited to learn that nobody believes their trip succeeded, but his spirits are lifted when he sees the resemblance between Dr. Nichols's secretary, Cathy, and the Moon Queen.

The movie ends as the two embrace, signaling the beginning of a new romance.

####One-Eyed Monster####
On a snow-covered mountain, a bus, truck, and a few cars arrive at a remote camp area to film a porno film. The group is made up of professional porn actors Ron Jeremy and Veronica Hart, novice porn stars Rock, Angel, Wanda, and Lance, as well as the director and producer Jim, cameraman Jonah, gaffer-electrician and sound guy T.J., and makeup and script girl Laura.

After being dropped off by the school bus driver who leaves them behind, the group settles in their living quarters for the next few days to shoot. While Laura talks with Ron about his past career days, the guys, Lance, Rock and T.J. talk about T.J.'s latest suck-and-squeeze device for carnal pleasure that T.J. wants to market, while Angel and Wanda talk about their experiences on the porn sets. Radio reports begin to describe a "strange light" in the sky that has been hovering over the mountains for the last several hours as Jim gets down to directing, starting with the first scene with Ron and Veronica. During a break in filming, Jonah goes outside to get some more lights from the truck while Ron also goes out to relieve himself. Suddenly, a strange light hits Ron, who then collapses to the ground. Jonah helps him up and they go back inside to finish filming the scene. Ron is acting strangely and begins to exhibit strange behavior as he begins performing in the sex scene with Veronica, who begin screaming in pain as Jim tries to yell "cut" as Ron continues to have rough sex with her. The guys are forced to pull Ron off Veronica as he goes into convulsions and collapses. T.J., Jeff, and Jonah try to help Veronica, who begins hemorrhaging and loses consciousness. They guys look over to help Ron and see that he is dead. But they also notice that Ron's legendary 9 3/4-inch penis is gone as well.

In Angel's room, she is rehearsing her upcoming scene, when the disembodied penis attacks her. Wanda walks in on this and runs out to inform Rock, Lance and Laura who run in only to find the disembodied member gone and Angel dead, with a large and gory hole in the back of her head. While everyone runs out to tell the others, Laura has an encounter with the disembodied penis which attacks her.

Holing themselves up in the main cabin, Jonah, Jim, T.J., Lance, Rock, and Wanda try to make sense of what is going on, just when Laura walks in, acting strangely. After the guys carry Ron's dead body outside, they debate on what to do since they are stranded there and no one has any signal for their cell phones. Rock wants to make a run for the cars to try to get off the mountain, but when he runs outside, the disembodied penis appears and shoves itself through him. When Jonah and T.J. run outside in a futile attempt to save him, they are surprised by the appearance of a rugged mountain man, named Montz who brings them back inside to the main cabin.

Resting, Jonah and T.J. make the assumption that Ron's missing penis is possessed by some kind of alien force. Jeff suggests finding a way to kill it while Laura, who continues acting strangely, wants to capture it. Lance and Wanda retreat to a nearby bathroom where he tries to calm down the growing hysterical Wanda over this unbelievable turn of events. Just then, the severed penis slithers in through a crack in the bathroom window and attacks them both.

Jonah and T.J. come up with a plan to capture the lethal creature by luring it through an open window, using a pair of women's panties borrowed from Laura, to try to trap it with Jeff's suck and squeeze device. Montz volunteers to kill it after he gives them a creepy but hilarious monologue about his encounter with a similar event back in Vietnam in the 1960s where he saw his platoon getting killed by a disembodied penis that came from the body of his commanding officer. T.J. volunteers to help out and has Jonah lock him and Montz in the kitchen to make sure that if they fail that Rock's penis will not be able to get them. But while their backs are turned, the disembodied penis slithers into the kitchen and strangles Montz to death, while it shoves itself with rapid speed through T.J., killing him.

Jim panics and runs into the nearby bathroom only to find a dead and cocooned Lance and Wanda against the wall. Panicking, he runs outside to the nearby barn and tries to start a snow speeder to try to escape. But the severed penis follows him in a super-fast chase down the mountain where it knocks him off his snow speeder and then gruesomely slices him in two from the crotch to the top of the head as it burrows through the snow.

Back at the main cabin, the three survivors, Jonah, Laura, and the barely conscious Veronica, are beside themselves and wait. Jonah, after being told earlier by Montz about the location of an old radio antenna atop the nearby mountain, suggests they run to a nearby cabin that Montz told them about where there is an underground passageway to the radio shack where they can radio for help. With Veronica having regained some of her strength, they make it to the passageway, which is apparently an old mine shaft, and walk through the long tunnel and make it to the radio shack where Jonah tries to get the radio to work, only the severed penis follows them and lands on Laura. Jonah tries to swing at it with an axe, but the "thing" is much too fast and keeps evading his blows. Veronica then thinks of a way to fight it. She lies down on the floor and offers herself to the entity which shoves itself between her legs. Veronica tells Jonah and Laura to run for safety as she will keep it occupied and uses her vaginal muscles to drain it of its power. Jonah and Laura flee from the radio shack cabin and down the mountain just as Veronica makes the severed dick climax.  The penis monster explodes in a massive blast, destroying itself as well as killing Veronica and blows up the radio cabin in a massive blast covering the sky with millions of particles.

Jonah and Laura seek shelter in a nearby shack where they huddle for the night. At dawn, Laura hears sounds of rain, but Jonah tells her that the rain is "Ron". The remains of the penis monster are raining down semen on the entire area.

At dawn, when the sounds had stopped, Laura leaves the cabin and a sleeping Jonah, where she ventures outside and to a place in the snow where she seems to be distraught over the death of the one-eyed monster. Laura reveals a massive bulge in her abdomen as she is now impregnated by the penis monster which attacked her earlier and will now be the apparent breeding chamber to the one-eye monster's offspring.

####Paper Man (1971 film)####
Four college students (Stefanie Powers, James Stacy, Elliott Street, and Tina Chen) take advantage of a credit card mistakenly issued to someone who does not exist by using their university's computer to counterfeit an entire identity and erase the charges they run up on it – done by Avery (Dean Stockwell), a computer wiz to fix everything for them. None of them count on the computer seeming to have some ideas of its own, or on it commencing to murder them.

Ultimately, a man employed at the university (James Olson) proves to have stolen the identity which the students had counterfeited and to have been using it to commit the offenses which the students had blamed on the computer.

"Paper Man" was produced at a time when identity theft was neither as common a crime, nor as difficult to commit, as it later became.

####Parts per Billion####
####The Phantom Creeps####
Dr. Zorka, a rogue scientist, is the creator of various weapons of warfare, including a devisualizer belt which renders him invisible; an eight-foot tall slave robot (Ed Wolff), robot spiders that can destroy life or paralyse it and he also has a deadly meteorite fragment from which he extracts an element which can induce suspended animation in an entire army. Foreign spies, operating under the guise of a foreign language school, are trying to buy or mostly steal the meteorite element, while his former partner, Dr. Fred Mallory, miffed that Zorka will not turn his inventions over to the U.S. Government, blows the whistle on him to Captain Bob West of the Military Intelligence Department. Tired of answering the door and saying no to the spies and the government, Zorka moves his lab. When his beloved wife is killed, Zorka, puttering around for his own amusement up to this point, is crushed and swears eternal vengeance against anyone trying to use his creations and to make himself world dictator. And would have if not for his assistant Monk, an escaped convict virtually enslaved by Zorka, who is cowardly, treacherous and totally incompetent, and whose accidental or deliberate interference with Zorka's efforts repeatedly frustrates his master's own plans...

####Phantom from Space####
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) investigators arrive in the San Fernando Valley after what appears to be a flying saucer crash, causing massive interference with tele-radio transmissions. During their investigation, they receive eyewitness reports of what appears to be a man dressed in a bizarre outfit, which appears to be radioactive and thus a public threat.

Their investigation uncovers that the man is actually a humanoid creature from outer space, who is invisible without his spacesuit. They start a massive manhunt for the invisible, radioactive alien running loose.

The action culminates in Los Angeles where the invisible alien has been tracked. He becomes trapped inside the famous Griffith Observatory. A woman lab assistant discovers that he can be seen using ultraviolet light. The alien attempts to communicate by tapping out a code, but no one can understand it. Now breathing heavily because his breathing gas reserves are now running low, he is trapped high-up on the Griffith telescope's upper platform. Because he can no longer survive without his breathing gas, he falters and then falls to his death. His body briefly becomes visible before completely evaporating

####The Phantom Planet####
thu
It is 1980, and the United States Air Force's Space Exploration Wing has bases on the Moon and on the eve of a mission to Mars. When another of its two-member crewed Pegasus spacecraft mysteriously disappears, rumors begin circulating of space monsters and phantom planets. Captain Frank Chapman and his navigator Lt. Ray Makonnen are ordered to investigate.

During the search, their spaceship suffers damage from a meteor shower, requiring that both men go outside to make repairs. A bullet-sized particle, however, pierces the air hose on Chapman's space suit, rendering him unconscious. Makonnen is able to repair the hose, but as he opens the airlock hatch, he is fatally struck by a similar particle. Makonnen's last act before being propelled into deep space is to push Chapman inside and close the airlock hatch. Chapman comes to and finds Makonnen gone and himself unable to communicate with the lunar base. He records a log entry about the preceding events, noting that he now must make a forced landing on an asteroid, that it is somehow pulling in his Pegasus spaceship.

Exiting his ship while still feeling the effects of the accident, Chapman collapses and sees tiny humanoids about six inches tall approaching. Once his helmet visor is opened, he can breathe but shrinks to their size due to the asteroid's atmosphere. He is taken underground.

Sesom, the aged and wise ruler of Rheton (the native name for the rocky and seemingly lifeless planetoid where Chapman has landed), explains that though his craft was brought down safely by their gravitational tractor beam, they had not been able to do the same with the preceding Earth spaceships that came near, which were completely destroyed, along with their crews, when they crashed on Rheton's surface. He informs Chapman that he never can leave but will have all the rights of a citizen of Rheton. As he slept, Chapman's spaceship was sent into space to keep Rheton's existence a secret, and more importantly, their world's gravitational technology, which allows the Rhetonians to navigate their world through space.

Chapman meets two beautiful women: Sesom's smugly spoiled blond daughter Liara and the gentle but mute black-haired Zetha. Liara is more than willing to answer his many questions about Rheton. Sesom informs Chapman that he later may marry one of the women once he has become accustomed to living on Rheton.

Liara, after following and engaging constantly with Chapman, declares her love for him, but Chapman, still eager to return to his own people, quietly rejects her. Herron, a young man who is in love with Liara, attempts to win her for himself by lying to Sesom, telling him Chapman is attempting to win over both women.

Stating that he believes this to be a crime against the people of Rheton, Herron requests a duel to the death. Chapman agrees, and the two engage in a form of combat where opponents must push each other onto gravity plates that cause immediate disintegration when touched. Just as Chapman is about to push Herron onto a plate, he lets Herron go, stating that he cannot kill someone for no reason.

As time goes on, Chapman and the mute Zetha become acquainted and eventually fall in love. Herron comes to Chapman late one night and offers to help him escape.

Any plans for the future, however, are put on hold when Chapman discovers the reason for Rheton's erratic course through space: It is because the planetoid is being attacked by the Solarites, an alien race of "fire people" from an unidentified "sun satellite". They want to destroy Rheton with their flaming fighter craft so they can steal its secret of gravitational control.

With Chapman's help, Sesom and Herron destroy the enemy fleet using a gravity beam. During the battle, a giant 7-inch tall Solarite prisoner, captured during a previous raid, escapes when the gravity barrier holding him fails. Stalking corridors, the creature captures Zetha, who previously had been traumatized into silence by a childhood encounter with the savage species. After Sesom is attacked by this bug-eyed monster, Chapman and Herron attempt to rescue Zetha. Chapman defeats the Solarite by pushing it onto a gravity plate.

While kidnapped, Zetha's muteness vanished when she saw Chapman about to be attacked by the creature, and she was able to scream, warning him. The return of her voice allows her to later confess her love for him. The two kiss, but Zetha knows that he must return to his home world. They are interrupted when a search party from Earth locates Chapman. In order to preserve the secret of his adopted people, Chapman crawls inside his spacesuit, and after once more being exposed to atmospheric gases from Earth, he returns to his normal size. Reluctantly, he goes with the search party, leaving Zetha and the miniature world of Rheton behind.

####Philadelphia Experiment II####
It is nine years after the events that thrust David Herdeg into 1984, where he met and later married Allison. She has since died, and David is living alone with their son, Benjamin. His business is slowly failing, Ben's school attendance has dropped and the banks are threatening to foreclose on his house; however, he refuses financial help from Professor Longstreet, the original project director, in exchange for rejoining the U.S. Navy. In addition to this, he has also been having painful experiences which Longstreet rationalizes as stress-related hallucinations. Unbeknownst to Herdeg, Longstreet has been doing some research of his own.

In a demonstration, engineer William Mailersndson of Friedrich Mahler, a Nazi scientist who worked on a project similar to the Philadelphia Experimentsnduses the technology as a demonstration for a potential teleportation attack-defense strategy. The concept was to beam a bomber into a high-risk area to surprise enemy air defenses, attacking before they could react. To demonstrate, he beams a model aircraft across a room. Despite getting significant interest, Longstreet manages to convince the panel that the technology is too dangerous to use. It is then revealed that Longstreet himself gave Mailer the necessary equipment – on condition that they be used only for test purposes. It is these tests that David is experiencing.

Herdeg, furious to learn that Longstreet has lied to him, packs to leave California, hoping to get far enough away from the experiment. Mailer, on the clock to vindicate his work, uses the technology to transmit an F-117 Nighthawk, but the aircraft does not rematerialize. David feels tremendous physical pain as the world around him changes and Ben disappears.

David finds himself in a different 1993, on the run from a heavily armed military team. He is rescued by Jess, a member of an underground resistance group, who explains that Nazi Germany won World War II and is about to mark 50 years of Nazi rule over America. Jews, African-Americans, and other ethnic minorities are being sent to concentration camps, while all citizens suffer under an oppressive puppet government.

Germany had won the war using a futuristic aircraft called the "Phoenix" to deliver atomic bombs, destroying Washington, D.C., and other major targets on the east coast. The United States, United Kingdom, Soviet Union and other Allied nations then surrendered to Nazi Germany. The Phoenix was destroyed in an explosion and Friedrich Mahler, the scientist who took credit for building it, was ridiculed since he was unable to reproduce "his" successful design.

The aircraft was the same F-117 from Mailer's beaming experiment, accidentally sent back in time. His test of the device was meant to transport the F-117, with a payload of nuclear weapons, to Ramstein Air Base in Germany. While the aircraft was successfully teleported to Ramstein, it was also transferred through time, arriving in 1943 Nazi Germany. Mahler found it and told the Nazis that it was his invention.

Because of Herdeg's unique blood, he still knows the original history, and is recruited by Longstreetsndthe leader of the resistance groupsndto go back in time and prevent the Nazi's use of the F-117. The revised Mailer has developed the same beaming experiment, but has also studied the Philadelphia Experiment, and knows that an injection of Herdeg's blood will allow him to travel through time using the beam. When the resistance attacks Mailer's base, in its effort to send Herdeg back, Herdeg is captured by Mailer, who draws a vial of blood. As Jess and the others are gunned down, Herdeg escapes and travels back. Mailer soon follows.

Herdeg is warped back to the night before the F-117 leaves for the attack on Washington. Mailer meets his fathersndMahler. Mailer tries to explain to a disbelieving Mahler as to who he is, and tries to explain the fate of the "Phoenix". While they are talking, Herdeg successfully destroys the aircraft and attempts to escape through the time portal. However, Mailer shoots and wounds Herdeg, knocking him to the ground. Before Mailer can deliver a kill shot, Herdeg is able to shoot and kill Mahler. This erases Mailer from existence, and Herdeg crawls into the portal. Herdeg returns to the (mostly) original America in 1993, meeting Ben at his Little League gamesndbemused to see that Jess is now the mother of one of Ben's teammates.

####The Phoenix Project (film)####
####Pig (2011 film)####
####Pink Zone####
####Planet of Dinosaurs####
After a mechanical failure aboard the spaceship "Odyssey", Captain Lee Norsythe (Louie Lawless) is forced to crash land on a planet with atmosphere and conditions much like that of Earth, although it is many light-years away. As the ship sinks into the lake that it landed in, communications officer Cindy (Mary Appleseth) realizes that she forgot the radio in the ship and attempts to retrieve it, with the assistance of fellow crew-member Chuck (Chuck Pennington). En route, Cindy is attacked and killed by an unidentified aquatic creature, prompting Chuck to return to shore without the radio.

Realizing that they are stranded, the remaining eight people aboard the ship decide that survival is their primary goal and begin to explore the planet that they have landed on. Derna Lee (Derna Wylde) slips while going through a swamp, dropping the laser gun that Mike (Max Thayer) had given her in the water and rendering the gun unusable. They eventually come across a "Brontosaurus", which leads them to deduce that the planet is following a similar evolutionary track as the one on Earth, but is millions of years younger. Later, Charlotte (Charlotte Speer) determines that the plant life, especially the berries, is poisonous. After another dinosaur encounter, Lee decides that the best option is to climb up the mountains and reach a higher plateau, where he believes the large creatures will be unable to reach them.

During the ascent, Nyla (Pamela Bottaro) slips and loses the entire supply of food rations, which Lee refuses to retrieve. Near a cave higher up in the mountains, Vice-President of Spaceways Incorporated Harvey Baylor (Harvey Shain) discovers a nest full of eggs. After stealing an egg, Harvey is attacked and killed by a "Centrosaurus". Soon after, much to ship engineer Jim's (James Whitworth) dismay, Lee decides to halt the expedition and settle at what he considers to be a defensible area. Lee expects to hold out until they are rescued, but Jim believes them to be trapped forever on the planet, and advises that they begin a new civilization. Lee triumphs and the remaining crew begin to build a defensive stockade around a cave. After several more encounters, a large "Tyrannosaurus" arrives and kills Derna, demolishing the stockade in the process.

The crew finally agrees with Jim that the best way to survive is to kill the predator. Their first plan, devised by Lee, is to attempt to poison the dinosaur by smearing poison from the berries on a dead "Polacanthus" and leave it outside of the "Tyrannosaurus"' lair. The plan backfires when the beast attacks from behind, killing Mike. Jim's plan is to set up large, wooden stakes and coat them in the poison, then lure the predator into them to be impaled. After some initial troubles the plan works, killing the "Tyrannosaurus". Years pass and the survivors have set up an agricultural settlement. Chuck and Charlotte now have a son named Mikey. Charlotte wonders aloud if they will ever be rescued, to which Nyla comments that it does not seem important anymore.

####Planet of the Apes (2001 film)####
In 2029, aboard the United States Air Force space station "Oberon", Leo Davidson works closely with apes who are trained for space missions. His favorite ape co-worker is a chimpanzee named Pericles. With a deadly electromagnetic storm approaching the station, a small space pod piloted by Pericles is used to probe the storm. Pericles's pod heads into the storm and disappears. Leo takes a second pod and finds Pericles. Entering the storm, Leo loses contact with the "Oberon" and, in 5021 A.D., crashes on a planet called Ashlar. He learns that the world is ruled by humanoid apes who speak English, use domesticated horses for transportation, and treat human beings as slaves.

Leo meets a female chimpanzee named Ari, who protests the mistreatment humans receive. Ari decides to buy Leo and a female slave named Daena to have them work as servants in the house of her father, Senator Sandar. Leo escapes his cage and frees other humans. Limbo, an orangutan trader in captured humans, sees them but is taken prisoner to ensure his silence. The murderous General Thade and his junior, Colonel Attar, march ape warriors to pursue the humans. Leo discovers Calima, the forbidden, but holy temple of "Semos", the first ape whom the apes revere as a god.

Calima turns out to be the remains of the "Oberon" which had crashed on the planet's surface and now looks ancient (the name Calima coming from the sign ""'CA"'ution "'LI"'ve ani"'MA"'ls", the relevant letters being the only ones not covered in dust). According to the computer logs, the station has been there for thousands of years. Leo deduces that when he entered the vortex, he was pushed forward in time, while the "Oberon", searching after him, was not, crashing on the planet long before he did.

The "Oberon's" log reveals that the apes on board, led by Semos, organized a mutiny and  took over the vessel after it crashed. The human and ape survivors of the struggle left the ship and their descendants are the people Leo has encountered since landing. The apes arrive and attack the humans who have gathered to see Leo, although he is able to even the odds when he uses the "Oberon"'s last fragments of fuel to fire a final blast at the first wave of apes. The battle stops when a familiar vehicle descends from the sky, which Leo immediately identifies as the pod piloted by Pericles, the chimpanzee astronaut who was pushed forward in time as Leo was and had just now found his way to the planet, the electromagnetic storm actually releasing people from it in an opposite direction in time to their entrance. When Pericles lands and the pod opens, the apes bow, interpreting his arrival as the return of Semos, and hostilities between humans and apes suddenly cease.

Pericles runs into the wreck of the "Oberon" and Leo runs after him, followed by General Thade. Thade and Leo fight. Pericles tries to help Leo, but Thade throws him hard against a wall. Thade takes Leo's gun from him and tries to fire it at Leo. Leo sees that Thade is within the pilot's deck and closes the automatic door, trapping Thade inside. Thade fires the gun repeatedly at the door but the ricochets create sparks that scare Thade, who huddles under a control panel. Deciding to escape Ashlar and return to Earth, Leo gives Pericles to Ari, who promises to look after him. After saying farewell to Ari and Daena, Leo climbs aboard Pericles's undamaged pod and travels back in time through the same electromagnetic storm, and crashes in Washington, D.C. on Earth. He looks up at what appears to be the Lincoln Memorial, only to find that it is now a monument memorializing General Thade. A swarm of police officers, firefighters, and news reporters descend upon him, revealed to all be apes.

####Poor Things (film)####
####Powder (1995 film)####
Jeremy "Powder" Reed is a young albino man who has incredible intellect and is able to sense the thoughts of the people around him. Jeremy's brain possesses a powerful electromagnetic charge, which causes electrical objects to function abnormally when he is around them, particularly when he becomes emotional. The electromagnetic charge also prevents hair from growing on his body.

Jeremy's mother was struck by lightning while pregnant with him; she died shortly after the strike, but Jeremy survived. His father disowned him shortly after his premature birth, and he was raised by his grandparents. Jeremy lived in the basement and worked on their farm, never leaving their property and learning everything he knew from books. He is taken from his home when his grandfather is found dead of natural causes. Jessie Caldwell, a child services psychologist, takes him to a boys' home because he is now effectively a ward of the state.

Jessie enrolls him in high school, where Jeremy meets physics teacher Donald Ripley. Donald finds out that Jeremy has supernatural powers as well as the highest IQ in history. While his abilities mark him as special, they also make him an outcast.

On a hunting trip with his schoolmates, Jeremy is threatened with a gun by John Box, an aggressive student who views him as a freak. Before John can fire, a gun goes off in the distance, and everyone rushes to see that Harley Duncan, a Sheriff's deputy, has shot a doe. Anguished by the animal's death, Jeremy touches both the deer and Harley at the same time, inducing in Harley what the students assume is a seizure. Harley later admits that Jeremy had actually caused him to feel the pain and fear of the dying deer. Because of the experience, Harley removes all of his guns from his house, although Sheriff Doug Barnum allows him to remain as a sheriff's deputy without a sidearm.

Doug enlists Jeremy to help speak to his dying wife through telepathy. Through Jeremy, the sheriff learns that his wife clings onto life because she did not want to die while not wearing her wedding ring and without him reconciling with his estranged son, Steven. She tells him that Steven found the ring and that it has been sitting in a silver box on her nightstand the entire time. Doug then places the ring on his wife's finger and reconciles with Steven, letting his wife die peacefully.

Jeremy meets Lindsey Kelloway, a romantic interest, but their relationship is broken by Lindsey's father. Before the interruption, he tells Lindsey that he can see the truth about people: that they are scared and feel disconnected from the rest of the world but in truth are all connected to everything that exists.

Jeremy goes back to the juvenile facility and packs away his belongings, planning to run away to his farm. He pauses in the gym to stare at a male student washing, noticing the latter's luxurious head of hair as well as body hair which he himself lacks, and is caught at it by John Box, who accuses him of homosexuality. John steals Jeremy's hat and taunts him, but Jeremy reveals that John's words mimic what his stepfather said before beating him when he was 12, infuriating him. John and the other boys humiliate Jeremy, stripping him naked and taunting him. His powers begin to manifest by pulling at their metal buttons and any piercings. Eventually, a large spherical electromagnetic pulse erupts throwing Jeremy into a mud puddle and everyone else to the ground. John is found still, with his heart stopped. Jeremy uses an electric shock to revive him.

Jeremy returns to the farm where he grew up, now in procession of probate with the bank, and finds that all of his possessions have been removed. He is joined by Jessie, Donald, and Doug, who persuade Jeremy to come with them to find a place where he will not be feared and misunderstood. Instead, he runs into a field where a lightning bolt strikes him, and he disappears in a blinding flash of light. The electrical jolt hits Jessie, Donald, Doug, and Harley.

####Primer (film)####
####Princess of Mars####
John Carter is a modern-day U.S. Army sniper serving in Afghanistan, wounded in the line of duty and used in a teleportation experiment wherein he is transferred to Barsoom, a planet outside of Earth's solar system, where he exhibits the ability to leap amazing distances. Initially enslaved by the Tharks, he earns a rank among them and later saves a rival group's princess, the human-looking Dejah Thoris, from death.

The group of Tharks, led by Tars Tarkas, takes Carter to their leader Tal Hajus, guarded by Tars Tarkas' daughter Sola. Learning that Tarkas gave Carter a military rank only Hajus can give, Tarkas and Carter are forced to duel. Upon winning, Carter faces Sarka, an Afghan mercenary who had betrayed him. When Sarka escapes, Carter helps Tarkas kill Hajus and become the new leader of the Tharks.

Captain Carter then learns that Dejah Thoris has fled to the planetary air-cleaning station that keeps Barsoom habitable, which Sarka damages, causing the atmosphere to deteriorate. John Carter and Sarka face each other in a duel, but Sarka is killed by an insect during the fight. After Carter and Dejah Thoris reactivate the station, Carter is returned to Earth, where he declines to tell his superiors about his adventures for fear they will colonize Barsoom, and returns to military duties while hoping one day to return to the planet.

####Prison Ship####
On the planet Arous, Captain Bantor (Ross Hagen), the Sovereign (Lindy Sykes) and the Inquisitor (Aldo Ray) attempt to quell an uprising of the defiant residents.

Freelance miner Taura is forced to defend herself against the marauding starship captain, Bantor. During their struggle, Taura causes Bantor to lose his hand in a volcanic acid plume. Taura is friendly to the locals and employees them in her mining operation. Bantor had attempted to claim the mined crystals for the Magistrate, leading to confrontation.

Taura is subsequently sentenced to a term aboard the prison ship, Vehemence, under the sadistic female warden, Exene. She finds life amid the other female inmates tough, but soon, gains their respect, making a friend in Mike.

Bantor then comes aboard Vehemence, now deranged as a result of losing his hand, seeking to obtain a mind control process that reduces the prisoners to zombies. His arrival proves to be Taura’s chance to escape the prison ship or "star slammer" and return to home planet of Arous.

####Project Power####
####Project X (1968 film)####
Hagen Arnold (Christopher George) is an American spy in the year 2118. The geopolitical climate of Earth has changed significantly over the years with Sino-Asia (China) being the only other superpower and enemy of the United States. Overpopulation is a looming issue. On a covert mission to Sino-Asia, Arnold sends a message to his handlers in the U. S. stating that "The West will be destroyed in fourteen days". Prior to the mission, he had been injected with an anti-torture drug which is triggered by extreme pain.  The extreme pain will erase his mind, making it impossible for him to reveal anything to his torturers. Hagen is safely brought back to the USA and placed in cryogenic preservation until the government can devise a way to get the information out of him. With the key to discovering the secret weapon the Sino-Asians were working on locked inside his mind the American scientists resort to using a holographic memory reading device that can see inside his mind while he is asleep. The scientists also create an elaborate historical reenactment of the 1960s (Arnold has a history degree centered on this tumultuous decade) as a means to create a role-playing mechanism that may coax the information to the surface of the unsuspecting Arnold. To keep his suspicions down in the 1960s mock-up, they also create a 1960s personality matrix to implant in his mind. He is led to believe he is a criminal hiding out at a farmhouse and cannot leave lest he be arrested.

As the days tick down until the East destroys the West, Hagen comes into contact with a futuristic factory worker named Karen Summers (Greta Baldwin) who causes slight anachronistic errors with the 1960s facade. An unseen sniper scares her off, leaving Hagen suspicious but none the wiser about the facade he is experiencing. The government finds and detains Karen but tension mounts as not only has Hagen not divulged the secret they need but another agent, the unseen sniper, a man known as Gregory Gallea (Monte Markham), enters the scene in an attempt to coax the memories out of Hagen. His intention is to obtain the prized info so he can double-cross the U. S. government. Gallea has been gone for two years and presumed dead, apparently killed in action while keeping tabs on Sino-Asia. It was he who helped Hagen escape Sino-Asia.

The memory viewing and holographic machinery unleashes a mental power in Hagen. The mental power creates an energy field that kills Gallea in a spectacular display of light and fury. His death however becomes the key the scientists were looking for. They extract Gallea's brain from his body, and, while keeping it alive in a nutrient tank, perform the same brain reading exercise on it as they did with Hagen. Gallea's memories show how the Sino-Asians plan on destroying the West. Gallea injected Hagen Arnold with a myriad of medieval diseases which will, in fourteen days, make him a living plague bomb capable of spreading the diseases throughout the U. S., thus effectively destroying it from within.

The lead scientist, Crowther (Henry Jones), recalls that Arnold was in cryo-suspension most of the fourteen-day period, so there is still time to immunize him and save the West. They do so while he is unconscious and then implant a third identity into him, one in which he is living in the future, and happily married to the beautiful Karen Summers. Arnold wakes up in a bright and happy new future, a married man who will be allowed by the state to have two children with his new wife.

####Prospect (film)####
####The Psychotronic Man####
####The Purple Monster Strikes####
Astronomer Cyrus Layton is working late one night on his new airplane design in his observatory. He witnesses what he believes is a meteorite landing in the far distance. He contacts his niece Sheila and asks her to bring Craig Foster to the observatory to help analyze his discovery; he then sets out to search for the meteorite crater. Layton instead discovers a crashed spaceship; the ship's pilot emerges and explains that he is from the planet Mars.

Mistakenly thinking the alien is friendly, Layton takes him back to the observatory. Once there the Martian, calling himself "The Purple Monster," wishes to see Layton's designs for the new airplane/spaceship. He proudly shows the alien his designs until the alien explains that he is now stealing them, to build a spaceship for himself to fly back to Mars, where a fleet of the ships will then be used invade the Earth. When Dr. Layton objects, the Martian murders him with a weapon that emits a "carbo-oxide" gas, which kills instantly. The alien then transforms into a ghost and takes over Dr Layton's body. Doing so fools the astronomer's niece Sheila and criminologist Craig Foster, both of whom work with Dr. Layton's foundation, which is responsible for commissioning the spaceship project.

Inhabiting Dr. Layton allows the Martian to witness the unrelated theft of the plans by a gangster named Garrett. The Martian convinces Garrett and his gang to aid in the invasion plot. With the criminals' help the alien begins building the spaceship. Eventually, however, the Martian's efforts at pretending to be Dr Layton fall apart, and Foster and Sheila realize what is happening. A series of action scenes show the pair trying to figure out and stop whatever the alien is doing on Earth. Craig and Sheila constantly battle the Purple Monster's henchmen, who use mind-control poisons, carjackings, and even a booby-trapped vacant lot to dispose of Craig and Sheila.

The closest the criminals come to succeeding is in Chapter 7 ("The Evil Eye"), when Sheila is lured into a trap at the gang's hideout. Foster gets the information out of a captured gang member and speeds to the house to save Sheila, who has been tied up and gagged inside a room filled with explosives set to detonate after an electric eye is tripped.

At the end of Chapter 7, Foster steps into the electric eye, triggering the explosives and detonating the building. However, at the beginning of Chapter 8, Shelia manages to remove her gag and alert Foster about the eye, allowing him to jump over it. Once safely out of the building, Foster shoots a henchman, causing him to fall into the electric eye, triggering the bomb.

In the last chapter Craig and Sheila realize that the Purple Monster is using Professor Layton's body; they devise a plan to uncover the truth. While Sheila gets the supposed Doctor Layton to come downtown to sign some papers needed for funding, Craig slips into Layton's office and secretly installs a movie camera which will be remotely activated when the telephone is used. Foster then escapes and calls the office to advise him that he will be bringing reinforcements to search the observatory, which he has discovered is the Purple Monster's hideout. Craig and Sheila arrive to find the observatory deserted. Sheila goes to the basement where she stumbles upon Purple Monster's subterranean lair and is kidnapped. Foster goes to check on Sheila and finds the basement empty. He then discovers the secret lair where Sheila has been bound and gagged. The Purple Monster orders his henchmen to dispose of her and destroy the observatory once he escapes.

The story ends with Craig Foster using a part of the spaceship, a sonic pulse cannon used to shatter meteors. He destroys the alien spaceship with the Purple Monster inside as he attempts to fly back to Mars to lead an invasion fleet against Earth.

####Queen of Outer Space####
In the year 1985, In the queen's palace, the astronauts are aided by a beautiful courtier named Talleah (Zsa Zsa Gabor) and her Venusian friends (Lisa Davis, Barbara Darrow, and Marilyn Buferd). The women long for the love and attention of men again and plot to overthrow the evil queen to reestablish the "old order".

Once Patterson is alone with the masked queen in her bedchamber, he has the opportunity to remove the mask, revealing her horribly disfigured face. This was caused by radiation burns received during a war between Venus and the men of another planet "10 Earth years ago". Later, in a fury, the queen decides she must destroy Earth in order to protect her world and preserve her power. In the presence of her armed guards, Talleah and the crewmen can only watch as she aims the energy-beam "disintegrator" at Earth. Just after Yllana activates the weapon, Talleah's allies arrive and a struggle begins. The  disintegrator immediately begins to malfunction and finally explodes, killing Queen Yllana. Talleah becomes the new leader of Venus. At a subsequent ceremony, she announces that Patterson's rocketship has been repaired and that he and his crew can now return to Earth. Talleah's technicians have also repaired the "electronic televiewer", which allows space command on Earth to contact Patterson. Command orders him not to attempt a return but to remain on Venus for at least a year, until an Earth relief expedition can arrive. Although the crew could return home in their repaired spaceship, they are elated to follow orders and stay. They begin celebrating with the Venusians in a flurry of hugs and passionate kisses.

####Quintet (film)####
The story takes place during a new ice age. The camera tracks a blank, frozen, seemingly deserted tundra until two blurry, distant figures can just be made out. They are the seal hunter Essex (Paul Newman) and his pregnant companion, Vivia (Brigitte Fossey), the daughter of one of Essex's late hunting partners. They are traveling north, where Essex hopes to reunite with his brother, Francha (Thomas Hill).

Essex and Vivia eventually find Francha's apartment, but the reunion is short-lived. While Essex is out buying firewood, a gambler named Redstone (Craig Richard Nelson) throws a bomb into Francha's apartment, killing everyone inside, including Vivia. Essex sees Redstone fleeing the scene and chases him to the sector's "Information Room." Essex witnesses the murder of Redstone by an Italian gambler named St. Christopher (Vittorio Gassman). When St. Christopher leaves, Essex searches Redstone's pockets and finds a piece of paper with a list of names: Francha, Redstone, Goldstar, Deuca, St. Christopher, and Ambrosia.

Puzzled by the mystery, Essex discovers that Redstone had previously checked into the Hotel Electra, a gambling resort in another sector. He visits the hotel and assumes Redstone's identity. Immediately after checking in, Essex is given an unexpected welcome by Grigor (Fernando Rey), who is the dealer in the casino. Insisting that he means no harm, Grigor invites Essex (as "Redstone") to the casino, where gamblers are now heavily involved in a "Quintet" tournament. While there he meets Ambrosia (Bibi Andersson), who always assumes the role of the  "sixth player" in the game.

Essex is unaware that the current Quintet tournament is a fight for the survival of the fittest. Those who are "killed" in game are executed in real life. Grigor and St. Christopher are aware that Essex is not the real Redstone, so they ignore him and focus on the other players. Goldstar (David Langton) is the first killed, followed by Deuca (Nina Van Pallandt), until the only two players left are St. Christopher and Ambrosia. Ambrosia, however, insists that Essex be counted as a player in the game since he has assumed Redstone's identity. Grigor agrees and informs St. Christopher that he has to eliminate Essex before he can face off against Ambrosia.

Essex and St. Christopher have a showdown outside the city, where St. Christopher is killed by falling into a rupture of the ice sheet. Essex returns to Francha's apartment and finds the same list that Redstone had. Ambrosia follows Essex to the apartment. Essex slits her throat moments before her attempt to slit his throat.

Returning to the Hotel Electra to cremate Ambrosia's body, Essex confronts Grigor to demand his "prize", since he was the winner of Quintet. Grigor reveals that the only prize is the thrill of the game itself. Grigor insists he stay and participate in future tournaments, but a disgusted Essex condemns Quintet and leaves the hotel for good. The film ends with Essex taking a long walk out into the barren distance.

####Radio Free Albemuth (film)####
The story is set in an alternate reality America circa 1985 under the authoritarian control of President Fremont. It makes liberal references to the collected works of Philip K. Dick.

Berkeley record store clerk Nick Brady (Jonathan Scarfe) lives modestly with his wife Rachel (Katheryn Winnick) and their infant son. Nick has been experiencing strange visions and dreams. He confides in Rachel and his best friend, science-fiction writer Philip K. Dick (Shea Whigham). Nick calls the source of his visions VALIS (Vast Active Living Intelligence System).

One recurring symbol that he has been seeing is an ichthys. While he and Phil sit at a table, an orbiting satellite shoots a pink laser directly into Nick's head. He rushes his son to the ER, convinced that he has an inguinal hernia. The skeptical doctor is stunned to find that Nick is right. Nick has subsequent visions that tell him that he should relocate to Los Angeles, where he lands a job at a record label.

Philip is visited by two members of FAP (Friends of the American People). They press him for information about Nick's visions. The female FAP agent returns and sleeps with Philip. After their liaison, she pretends to be underage, hoping to coerce him into revealing what Nick is seeing from VALIS. Philip refuses to divulge anything about Nick.

Meanwhile, Nick has a dream where a woman (Alanis Morissette) is singing. During the dream, someone comments that there is something about her singing that seems subversive. Eventually, the woman turns up at Nick's record label, looking for a clerical job. She introduces herself as Sylvia, and Nick just assumes that she is a singer. Sylvia gradually reveals that she also receives visions from VALIS. She explains that there are several thousand people who receive transmissions from the orbiting satellite, and they are very loosely organized as a secret society.

The Russian government blows up the orbiting VALIS satellite, and Sylvia explains that it will take another 100 years for a replacement satellite to arrive. She writes a song with subliminal lyrics about VALIS. Nick forces The Fisher Kings to record the song, despite their total lack of interest in it. When they debut the song at a club, Nick explains to Philip how the subliminal messages are encoded in the recording.

FAP arrest Nick and Philip. They waste little time in executing Nick, as well as Sylvia. The film ends with Philip in prison, writing about Nick's VALIS experience. While he is working in a field one day, some teenagers gawk at the prisoners and laugh. Their boombox is playing Sylvia's subliminal song, and Philip realizes that the secret society found a way to get the song out, despite FAP's best efforts.

####Ray Bradbury's Chrysalis####
####Red Planet Mars####
An American astronomer obtains images of Mars suggesting large-scale environmental changes are occurring at a pace that can only be accomplished by intelligent beings with advanced technology. Scientist Chris Cronyn (Peter Graves) and his wife, Linda (Andrea King) have been contacting Mars by a hydrogen powered radio transmitter, using technology based on the work of Nazi scientist Franz Calder. They  communicate first through an exchange of mathematical concepts, like the value of pi, and then through answers to specific questions about Martian life. The transmissions claim that Mars is a utopia, which has led to great technological advancement and the elimination of scarcity, but that there is no fear of nuclear war.

This revelation leads to political and economic chaos, especially in the Western hemisphere, and is said to have "done more to smash the democratic world in the last four weeks than the Russians have been able to do in eleven years". The U.S. government imposes a news blackout and orders the transmissions to stop due to fears that the Soviet Union could pick up and decode their messages. This ends when the next message reveals that the Earth is condemned to the constant fear of nuclear war as a punishment for straying from the teachings of the Bible. Revolution sweeps the globe, including the Soviet Union, which is overthrown and replaced by a theocracy, which is met with celebration in America.

The messages cease. Calder, armed with a handgun, confronts the Cronyns in their lab. He wants to announce that he has been duping the world with false messages from a secret Soviet-funded radio transmitter high in the Andes mountains of South America. The transmitter was destroyed by an avalanche. There have been no transmissions since then. He shows them his log. When Linda raises the question of the religious messages, Calder is contemptuous. He says that he transmitted the original messages supposedly from Mars, but that the United States government made up the religious messages, which he allowed because he wanted to see the destruction of the Soviet Union. The Cronyns know that the religious messages were not hoaxes, but Calder's claim will be believed and it will mean disaster for a now peaceful Earth. Unseen by Calder, Chris opens the valve to the hydrogen supply and tells Linda to leave. Calder refuses to allow it. She asks her husband for a cigarette. He says quietly that in all their years together he has never seen her smoke. They both know the spark will ignite the hydrogen and destroy the lab. But before Chris can use his lighter, a message begins to come through and an enraged Calder fires into the screen, blowing up the transmitter, himself and the Cronyns before the message is complete. However, the first part is decoded, and later the President reads it aloud to the world: "You have done well my good..." the rest evoking the Parable of the Talents in the Gospel of Matthew: "You have done well, my good and faithful servant."

####Redshirt Blues####
####Remote Control (1988 film)####

A video store clerk (Kevin Dillon) stumbles onto an alien plot to take over Earth by brainwashing people with a faux 1950s science fiction movie. The movie is being rented from the video shop where he works. He and his girlfriend track the production of the fake movie to a movie studio under the control of aliens. They must race to stop the aliens before the tapes can be distributed worldwide.

####Repo! The Genetic Opera####

By the year 2056, an epidemic of organ failures has devastated the planet and wiped out 99% of the human population. The megacorporation GeneCo provides organ transplants on a payment plan. Clients who miss payments are hunted down by Repo Men, skilled assassins who "repossess" the organs ("Genetic Repo Man"). The CEO of GeneCo, Rotti Largo, discovers he is terminally ill. Rotti's children Luigi, Pavi and Amber bicker over who will inherit GeneCo ("Mark It Up"), but Rotti believes none of them are worthy heirs and instead plans to give his fortune to 17-year-old Shilo Wallace, the daughter of his ex-fiancée Marni ("Things You See In A Graveyard").

Shilo has inherited a rare blood disease from Marni, which requires her to stay indoors, though she longs to see the outside world ("Infected"). Shilo's overprotective father Nathan believes he killed Marni with a treatment he created for her illness – in truth, a jealous Rotti secretly poisoned Marni's medicine and blackmailed Nathan, promising not to arrest him if he agreed to become GeneCo's head Repo Man, though he has led Shilo to believe he is a doctor ("Legal Assassin"). One night, Shilo secretly visits Marni's tomb and runs into the omniscient GraveRobber, who is digging up bodies to secrete Zydrate, a euphoric and addictive pain-killer that he sells on the street to keep up with his GeneCo payments ("21st Century Cure").

Rotti lures Shilo to GeneCo's fair with the promise of a cure for her disease. There, she meets Blind Mag, an opera singer and GeneCo's celebrity spokesperson. Born blind, Mag has been given surgically enhanced eyes by GeneCo at the cost of indefinite employment, though she is soon resigning. GraveRobber helps Shilo escape the fairgrounds, encountering several of his customers including the surgery-addicted Amber ("Zydrate Anatomy"). Amber explains that Mag's eyes are set for repossession and that she will replace her as GeneCo’s spokeswoman. After GeneCops arrive, Shilo quickly returns to her room before Nathan notices her missing.

Rotti hires Nathan to repossess Mag's eyes, but Nathan refuses, citing that Mag was Marni’s best friend ("Night Surgeon"). An infuriated Rotti vows to have Nathan taken out. Mag visits Shilo and reveals she is her godmother, and that Nathan had told her Shilo died with Marni. She cautions Shilo to not make the same mistakes she did ("Chase the Morning"). Nathan arrives and forces Mag out after she scolds him for lying and incarcerating Shilo ("Everyone’s a Composer"). Meanwhile, Rotti writes his will, ready to make Shilo his sole beneficiary ("Gold").

Rotti invites Shilo to the Opera ("At the Opera Tonight"). Nathan heads to the opera to find her, pursued by GeneCops who he quickly dispatches. Amber makes her stage debut but her performance is ruined when her transplanted face falls off. Mag completes her final performance, but deviates from the song's grand finale, denouncing the Largo family and gouging out her eyes in an act of defiance ("Chromaggia"). Rotti cuts the cords suspending Mag, impaling her on a fence, but assures the panicking audience that Mag's death was staged as part of the show.

Shilo is approached by a Repo Man  and attacks him with a shovel, revealing that he is Nathan. She angrily confronts Nathan for lying to her about his profession ("Let the Monster Rise"). Onstage, Rotti reveals that Shilo does not actually have a blood disease; Nathan has been poisoning her "medicine" in an attempt to keep her safe from the outside world after being unable to cope with the loss of Marni. As his disease rapidly worsens, Rotti offers Shilo GeneCo if she kills her father. When she refuses, Rotti uses the last of his strength to fatally shoot Nathan, and dies after disowning his children. After a tearful farewell to her father ("I Didn’t Know I’d Love You So Much"), Shilo leaves, deciding that her father's actions do not dictate her future ("Genetic Emancipation").

Shilo flees, leaving GeneCo with no legal heir. Amber inherits the company instead and auctions her fallen face to charity, which Pavi wins.

####The Resurrection of Zachary Wheeler####
Reporter Harry Walsh (Nielsen) witnesses an auto accident in which two people are killed. Recognizing the survivor as Senator Clayton Zachary Wheeler, (Dillman) he rides with him in the ambulance.

After he reports Wheeler's accident from the hospital, the staff tells him there is no such person admitted. Walsh's editor orders him to retract his story, which he refuses to do, at the cost of his job. Some detective work leads him to Alamogordo, New Mexico.

Meanwhile, Wheeler wakes up in a secret hospital run by Dr. Redding (Daly) and Dr. Layle Johnson (Dickinson). He finds out he is the recipient of an incredible transplant, utilizing organs harvested from "somas". These somas are bodies artificially grown from his own DNA.

Walsh has to elude two less-than-brilliant agents on his way to Alamogordo, finally escaping them, traveling with some migrant workers. Wheeler learns that the "fee" for his surgery is to do whatever he can do as Senator, for the Committee—a form of medical blackmail. Fielding (Wilke), the Committee chairman, refers to it as "a new type of money." Wheeler refuses to cooperate and threatens to turn the whole operation in. Fielding warns him he will never win a presidential nomination if news of his heart transplant gets out.

In Alamogordo, Walsh deduces that Wheeler's plane must have gone to Los Alamos, site of the old Manhattan Project. With the help of a newspaper buddy, he lands at the base and discovers an extra soma of Wheeler. Thinking it to be the senator, he breaks it out and commandeers Dr. Johnson's car.

The car wrecks when Walsh swerves to avoid hitting several somas wandering around. Johnson is injured, and Fielding tries to use the situation to change Wheeler's position, threatening not to save her. As Wheeler has grown fond of her, his resolve is weakening, but Redding assures him she is not badly injured.

Walsh and Wheeler finally meet, and agree to expose the Committee together, even as Fielding and Redding discuss a new "client" they have been hoping for.

####The Return (1980 film)####
While stopping with her father at a gas station late one night in a small New Mexico town called Little Creek, a young girl wanders the empty main street of the town. She meets a local boy, and both are soon mesmerized by a column of light from above. The light disappears and the girl runs back to her father's car, and they soon leave.

Twenty-five years later, the town's deputy marshal Wayne is investigating a strange case of cattle mutilations with few leads to follow. His efforts are soon hampered by Jennifer, a scientist from California, who is overseeing a geology project in the area. As the two disagree over the mutilations and their possible causes, they find themselves attracted to each another in a seemingly familiar way as if they share some unknown bond. They discover that they were the children who had met in Little Creek. Wayne stayed and became a police officer while Jennifer returned to California and worked for her father's company. Jennifer claims that she has always felt a strange urge to return.

The mutilation case appears to be solved when the culprit is identified as a crazy old prospector hermit from the outskirts of town  He claims that he was visited by aliens 25 years ago and he has not aged a day since. Claiming to be on a mission from the aliens, the hermit says that the mutilations have a purpose: he has been using a "knife" made of energy to excise parts of the cattle and teleport them into space using a device hidden in the cave behind his cabin. While confronting him in the cave, Jennifer is subdued while the hermit explains that the aliens gave him a purpose that night. He then expresses jealousy that the aliens would also choose someone else and is shocked when an otherwise fatal blow from the alien "knife" fails to kill or even harm her. After she is saved by Wayne, it becomes apparent that it was all an experiment by the aliens.

####The Rift (1990 film)####
####Robinson Crusoe on Mars####
Commander Christopher "Kit" Draper, USN, and Colonel Dan McReady, USAF, reach the red planet in their spaceship, Mars Gravity Probe 1. They are forced to use up their remaining fuel in order to avoid an imminent collision with a large orbiting meteoroid; they descend in their one-man lifeboat pods, becoming the first humans on Mars.

Draper eventually finds a cave for shelter. He figures out how to obtain the rest of what he needs to survive: he burns some coal-like rocks for warmth and discovers that heating them also releases oxygen. This allows him to refill his air tanks with a hand pump and to move around in the thin Martian atmosphere. On one of his excursions, he finds McReady's crashed pod and corpse.

He also finds their monkey Mona alive. Later, he notices that Mona keeps disappearing and is uninterested in their dwindling supply of food and water. He gives her a salty cracker, but no water. When Mona gets thirsty, he lets her out and follows her to a cave where he finds a large pool of water in which are growing edible plant "sausages".

As the days grow into months, Draper slowly begins to crack from the prolonged isolation, at one point imagining an alive, but unspeaking, McReady appearing. He also watches helplessly as his mothership, an inaccessible "supermarket", periodically orbits overhead; without fuel, the spaceship cannot follow his radioed order to land.

While walking about, Draper comes upon a dark rock slab standing almost upright. Curious, he digs in the ground around it, exposing a skeletal hand and arm wearing a black bracelet. He uncovers the rest of the humanoid skeleton and determines that the alien was murdered; the front of the skull shows a hole, and the back shows heavy charring. To hide his presence on Mars, Draper signals his low-orbiting mothership to self-destruct.

Not long after, Draper sees a spaceship descend and land just over the horizon. Believing it might be a rescue ship from Earth, he heads towards the landing site the following morning, only to see alien spacecraft darting about in the sky. He approaches cautiously and sees human-looking slaves being used for mining by equally human-shaped captors wearing spacesuits and helmets and bearing weapons. One of the slaves escapes and runs into Draper; an alien spaceship blasts the area as the two escape. Draper notices the stranger is wearing black bracelets just like the one he found in the grave. Draper rescues the stranger and takes him back to the safety of the cave. The aliens bombard the mine area that night and depart. Later, when he and the stranger investigate, they find the dead bodies of the other slaves.

Draper names his new acquaintance "Friday," after the character in "Robinson Crusoe." At first, Draper is wary of his new companion, but they gradually grow to trust and like each other. Soon, Draper begins to teach him to speak English. A portion of the passing overhead meteoroid explodes, showering their area with a thick black ash. Draper is buried under the heavy material, but Fridaysndwith his greater strengthsndsaves Draper and shares his "air pills", which provide oxygen.

After a while, the alien spacecraft return, tracking Friday by his bracelets. Draper tries to remove the bracelets with a wire saw. When the aliens blast the castaways' hiding place, Draper, Friday, and Mona flee north through underground Martian canals. They eventually surface near the polar icecap. Exhausted, freezing, and nearly out of the air pills, they build a snow shelter. Draper finally manages to cut off Friday's bracelets shortly before the meteoroid crashes into the ice cap; the resulting explosion and firestorm melts the ice and snow, saving them from freezing to death.

Shortly thereafter, Draper detects an approaching spaceship. He fears it is the returning aliens, but his portable radio picks up an English-speaking voice; it is an Earth rescue ship! A capsule is seen descending, and the film ends with Mars receding in the distance as the credits scroll.

####Rocket-Bye Baby####
The short begins with a vignette showing the planets Mars and Earth; the narrator (voiced by Butler) explains that, in the summer of 1954, the planets came so close to each other that "a cosmic force was disturbed" and a baby destined for Earth is diverted to Mars, and vice versa. This is depicted via two comet-like bodies colliding, then assuming paths distinctly different from their original ones. The transit of the green one is followed as it flies through Earth's atmosphere, above hundreds of homes with strange-looking TV antennas, ultimately arriving inside a hospital.

Joseph Wilbur (voiced by Butler) is waiting with other anxious, heavily smoking fathers in the hospital waiting room. Finally, an announcement (voiced by Foray) comes over the P.A. informing Joseph that he may see his baby. Excited, he presses against the nursery window glass as his baby is rolled in. The baby becomes visible, but wait! His head is green! Then, he jumps up and we see that his head has two antennae that spark and make Morse-code style beeps! "Somebody goofed!" Joseph says, before fainting.

The next scene opens in a suburban home. Joseph is arguing with his wife, Martha (voiced by Foray). He is pleading his case to keep the baby in the house. She counters that the baby needs sunshine and fresh air. So, Joseph takes the infant out in a stroller, fearful of being seen. While he is not looking, the baby startles Joseph by crawling up onto the stroller's hood and beeping; then he scampers onto a wall and communicates with a bee sitting on a nearby flower.

We next see Joseph in the house, saying to dispassionate Martha that they "Can't have him talking to any strange bee he might meet on the street". Subsequently, he is pushing the stroller along when an elderly woman (voiced by Foray) begins to dote on the baby, picking him up and noting that he is "such a healthy green baby, too". As it begins to dawn on her that something is strange, he beeps his antennae, uses them to take her glasses and dons them, amplifying his eyes.  Horrified, Joseph hurries the baby back home. The lady, unusually calm, uses a pitch pipe she pulls from her purse to find the right note before letting out two bloodcurdling screams.

In the next scene, Martha is beginning to worry about the baby. He is doing the family's income taxes, spelling out Einstein's Mass–energy equivalence with letter blocks, and creating a Tinkertoy (named "Stinkertoy" in the cartoon) model of the (fictional) illudium molecule made famous in the "Marvin the Martian" cartoons. We are also shown a model of the solar system made from a basketball and Christmas ornaments hung from the ceiling with string, and a graph on a chalkboard titled "Hurricane Possibilities for Year 1985". There are also plans not only to build a better mousetrap, but corresponding blueprints on how to build a better mouse. Agreeing that "he should play more", Joseph sits the baby in front of the T.V., where "Captain Schmideo" is displaying a toy flying saucer being offered as a promotion for Cosmic Crunchies (although the screen identifies it as "Ghastlies") the "new wonder cereal made from unborn sweet peas". The baby retrieves a T-square and triangle, measures the dimensions of the saucer displayed on the T.V. screen, and retires to his room, where he builds "his own toy spaceship".

Next, the family receives a letter from Mars delivered by a small rocket. Martha expresses comic relief that it was "only" that and not a letter from Mother until both spouses realize the significance and yell ""MARS?!"" in shock. The message, from "Sir U. Tan of Mars" (a reference to a popular vegetable laxative, "Serutan"), explains how events occurred resulting in a baby-switch, adding that the Martian baby's name is "Mot". Furthermore, Tan states that the Wilburs' baby is on Mars and they call him "Yob" (a reference to a satirical song called 'Serutan Yob' based on the earlier reference to Serutan.) The Earthlings are cautioned to guard the baby carefully until the exchange can be made. At that moment, using his highchair as a launch pad, Mot launches his "toy" spaceship out the bedroom window. The frightened Joseph first chases him by foot, then by car. Joseph reaches a high-rise hotel just as Mot is flying into a window on an upper floor. Inside the auditorium, a U.F.O. skeptic (voiced by Butler) is deriding the concept of "little green men from Mars" and "flying saucers" until the little green baby in his flying saucer stops in front of him; the skeptic starts laughing, then bursts into tears.

Joseph arrives just as Mot is flying out another open window. He tries, unsuccessfully, to grab the spaceship, and falls out the window. Mot flies up to a waiting mother ship, which takes him in. We watch Joseph, yelling for Yob as he falls to toward the street.

The scene fades and wavers to the P.A. in the hospital waiting room, where Joseph wakes from a bad dream as he is summoned to see his baby. He had apparently fallen asleep while reading a science magazine carrying the lead story: ""Can we communicate with Mars?"". Affected by the dream, he dashes to the nursery window to see a healthy human boy rolled in. He whistles with relief. In a twist ending, the view then zooms onto the baby's wrist, on which there is an ID bracelet reading: "YOB".

####Rocketship X-M####

Four men and a woman blast into outer space from the White Sands Proving Ground aboard the RX-M (Rocketship Expedition-Moon) on humanity's first expedition to the Moon. Halfway there, after surviving their jettisoned and runaway first stage and a meteoroid storm, their engines suddenly quit. Recalculating fuel ratios and swapping around their multiple, different fuels finally corrects the problem. When the engines are reignited, the RX-M careens out of control on a rapid heading beyond the Moon. The increased acceleration lowers their cabin oxygen pressure, and the crew pass out. Reviving days later, they quickly discover that they have traveled some 50,000,000 miles; the RX-M is now just 50,000 miles away from Mars. Dr. Karl Eckstrom is forced to "pause and observe respectfully while something infinitely greater assumes control".

The RX-M safely passes through the Martian atmosphere and lands. The next morning the crew, clad in aviation oxygen masks due to the low oxygen levels, begin exploring the desolate surface. They come across physical evidence of a now dead advanced Martian civilization: a partially buried-in-the-sand, stylized, Art Deco (or Tiki culture) like metal face sculpture and in the distance Moderne architecture-like ruins. Their Geiger counter registers dangerous radiation levels, keeping them well away. These dangerous levels make it clear that there was once an atomic war on Mars in the distant past.

Finding cave refuge, the crew notice in the distance the primitive human descendants of that civilization emerging from behind boulders and creeping toward them. Amazed, Dr. Eckstrom comments "From Atomic Age to Stone Age". Soon after leaving, two of the explorers encounter a dark-haired woman who has lost her footing and rolled down a hill toward them; she is blind, with thick, milky cataracts on both eyes. She screams upon hearing their oxygen mask-distorted voices. The radiation burned tribesmen attack, throwing large rocks and stone axes. Armed with only a revolver and a bolt-action rifle, the explorers defend themselves, purposely missing the primitives. Major Corrigan is killed by a large rock thrown by the primitives. Moments later, Dr. Eckstrom is killed by a stone axe. Navigator Chamberlain is badly injured by a large thrown rock. Colonel Graham, Dr. Van Horn, and Chamberlain finally make their way back to the ship.

As the RX-M nears Earth, the three survivors (Graham, Van Horn, with the unconscious Chamberlain) calculate that they have no fuel to make a landing. Col. Graham contacts their base and reports their dire status to Dr. Fleming, who listens intently and wordlessly over headphones. Col. Graham's report is not heard, but Fleming's subtle reactions tells of the crew's odyssey, their discovery of a once advanced civilization destroyed long ago by atomic war, and of the crew fatalities at the hands of Martian descendants reverted to barbarism.

Col. Graham and Dr. Van Horn embrace as the RX-M begins its uncontrolled descent, consoling one another in the moments left to them. Through a porthole, they bravely watch their rapid descent into the wilds of Nova Scotia. The press is later informed by a shaken Dr. Fleming that the entire crew has perished. When they ask if the mission was a failure, he confidently responds with conviction, stating that all theories about crewed spaceflight and exploration have now been proven. He continues, underscoring the point that a dire warning has been received from the crew that could very well mean the salvation of humanity, "A new spaceship, the RX-M-2, begins construction tomorrow". The pioneering exploration continues.

####Rotor DR1####
####The Satisfiers of Alpha Blue####
In a futuristic society called 'Alpha Blue', sexual needs are fulfilled by a computer. Griffin (Herschel Savage) is happy with this state of affairs and spends his time with prostitutes, but Algon (Robert Kerman as R. Bolla) longs for the good old days of love and romance. He falls in love with Satisfier 805, Diana (Lysa Thatcher).

####Saved by the Light (film)####
####Second Nature (2003 film)####
####Shallow Water####
####Silent Running####
In the future, all plant life on Earth has become extinct due to an unexplained cause. As many specimens as possible have been preserved in a series of enormous greenhouse-like geodesic domes attached to large cargo spaceships, forming part of a fleet of eight "American Airlines Space Freighters", stationed outside the orbit of Saturn.

Freeman Lowell, one of four crewmen, is the resident botanist and ecologist on one of these ships, the "Valley Forge." He carefully maintains a variety of plants for their eventual return to Earth and the reforestation of the planet. He spends most of his time in the domes, cultivating the crops and attending to the animal life.

The crew of each ship receives orders to jettison and destroy their domes and return the freighters to commercial service. After four of the six "Valley Forge" domes are jettisoned and destroyed with nuclear charges, Lowell rebels and opts to save his ship's plants and animals. He kills Wolf, one of his crewmates who arrives to plant explosives in his favorite dome, and his right leg is seriously injured in the process. He then jettisons and triggers the destruction of the other remaining dome to trap and kill the remaining two crewmen.

Enlisting the aid of the ship's three service robots, Lowell stages a fake premature explosion as a ruse and sends the "Valley Forge" careening toward Saturn in an attempt to hijack the ship and flee with the last forest dome. He then reprograms the drones to perform surgery on his leg and sets the "Valley Forge" on a risky course through Saturn's rings. Later, as the ship endures the rough passage, Drone 3 is lost, but the ship and its remaining dome emerge relatively undamaged on the other side of the rings. Lowell gives the surviving drones the names Dewey (Drone 1) and Huey (Drone 2), while the lost Drone 3 is named Louie (a nod to Disney characters Huey, Dewey, and Louie).

Lowell, Huey, and Dewey set out into deep space to maintain the forest. Lowell reprograms Huey and Dewey to plant trees and play poker. He also has them bury John in the bio-dome. Lowell begins speaking to them constantly, as if they are children.

Huey is damaged when Lowell accidentally collides with him while driving a buggy recklessly, and Dewey sentimentally refuses to leave Huey's side during the repairs. As time passes, Lowell is horrified when he discovers that his bio-dome is dying, but is unable to come up with a solution to the problem. When the "Berkshire" — another space freighter waiting to see if the "Valley Forge" has survived the trip around Saturn — eventually reestablishes contact, he knows that his crimes will soon be discovered. It is then that he realizes a lack of light has restricted plant growth, and he races to install lamps to correct this situation. In an effort to save the last forest before the "Berkshire" arrives, Lowell jettisons the bio-dome to safety. He then detonates nuclear charges, destroying the "Valley Forge", the damaged Huey, and himself in the process. The final scene is of the now well-lit forest greenhouse drifting into deep space, with Dewey tenderly caring for it, holding Lowell's battered old watering can.

####Singularity (2017 film)####
In 2020, robotics company C.E.O. Elias VanDorne reveals Kronos, the supercomputer he has invented to end all wars. Kronos decides that mankind is responsible for all wars and it tries to use robots to kill all humans. VanDorne and Damien Walsh, a colleague, upload themselves into Kronos and watch the destruction. Ninety-seven years later, Andrew, a kind-hearted young man, wakes up in a ruined world. VanDorne and Walsh, still in Kronos, watch Andrew meet Calia, a teenage girl who seeks the last human settlement, the Aurora. Though Calia is first reluctant to let Andrew accompany her, still shaken by a drone attack that resulted in her parents leaving her alone with her fatally wounded sister, the two later fall in love. Unbeknownst to them, VanDorne and Walsh are monitoring the pair, hoping that they would show them the way to Aurora.

During their travels, they come across a pack of marauders, who manage to capture Andrew, forcing Calia to abandon him, only for her to return later to attempt to free him. When Calia is attacked and sexually harassed by some of the marauders, Andrew instinctively demonstrates superhuman strength and resilience, easily defeating the thugs and surviving being cut down by their leader, who is fatally stabbed by Calia. Calia finds machinery in one of Andrew's wounds, causing her to become upset and abandon Andrew. The two are then captured and brought to Walsh, who tells them that Andrew, the first in a new generation of machines, was designed to kill any remaining humans. Andrew the machine has his long-dead eponym's memories, which Walsh makes Andrew search for clues about Aurora’s location. Andrew instead envisions his mother, Veronica, who reminds him that he's still her loving son. This helps Andrew the machine identify with his eponymous self. Andrew overrides Walsh's program and escapes with Calia.

Andrew and Calia spot the lights of what they believe to be Aurora, but only find an empty city. Damien concludes that Aurora was a myth after all, ordering his robot drones to kill them and all remaining humans, having kept the few scavengers and marauders alive only to follow them to Aurora. As the robots start carpet bombing the few remaining humans, Andrew and Calia flee underground, finding a high-tech room. Reacting to the presence of a human, the room reveals itself to be the control room of a space ship which sets course for Aurora - a distant planet rather than an Earth-based settlement. With Kronos' bombs approaching, Andrew and Calia activate the ship's hyperdrive to escape despite the threat that when they reach Aurora, the humans there will destroy Andrew due to his robotic nature.

Now possessing the location of Aurora, Elias betrays and kills Damien. Andrew and Calia arrive at Aurora which proves to be a lush planet with futuristic cities. In a voiceover, Calia proclaims that Kronos will come after Aurora, but that with Andrew, a machine that may be more human than anyone else, they stand a chance. Watching a massive fleet launching towards Aurora, Elias proclaims that the last of humanity will face their fate once he reaches Aurora.

####Skullduggery (1970 film)####
On an expedition in Papua New Guinea, the Tropis, a tribe of apelike creatures, are being used as slaves by humans. When one of the Tropis is allegedly murdered, the following murder trial centers on the question of whether the Tropis are human or animal.

####Sky Larks####
Oswald and a big beagle are at a cinema watching a documentary about explorers who travel in hot air balloons. The documentary consists of footage of real-life balloonist Auguste Piccard.<ref>cite web
|url=http://lantz.goldenagecartoons.com/1934.html
|title=The Walter Lantz Cartune Encyclopedia: 1934
|accessdate=2011-06-03
|publisher=The Walter Lantz Cartune Encyclopedia
</ref> Oswald is amazed, and after the show decides to become a balloonist himself.

At a fairground, a large crowd gathers to see Oswald take off in his balloon. The balloon is a large hot water bottle and the carriage is a pot-bellied stove. Oswald invites the big beagle, who is in the crowd, to join him. The beagle refuses, but as the balloon rises, its anchor snags his pants and pulls them off. Embarrassed, he grabs the anchor and flies away with Oswald.

Oswald's balloon rapidly ascends and goes so far that they reach interplanetary space. They pass through the "Milky Way", populated by bottles of milk, and finally crash land on the planet Mars, much of which seems related to the "martial" topic of war. They see a giant sipping "Nitro Soup" and eating bombs. Oswald and the big beagle flee, only to unknowingly run into the bore of a huge cannon. The cannon shoots them airborne and they land in the giant's soup bowl.

The giant recognizes them as Earthlings, and picks them up with his spoon and tries to eat them. After several attempts which they evade, they fall into a salt shaker. The giant puts the lid on the shaker, trapping them, and then calls for a dance. A variety of animate implements of war then put on a dance, including guns, rockets and gas masks. While the giant is distracted, Oswald and the beagle rock the salt shaker back and forth until they turn it upside down. By putting their legs through the shaker's holes, they are able run. They run into a pitcher, breaking the shaker, at which the giant notices their escape and grabs them.

The pair then find that the whole affair was a dream, as they awaken back in the now-empty cinema, with the janitor shaking them awake. Nevertheless, they are still frightened and run out of the cinema in a panic, to the bewilderment of the janitor.

####Skyrunners####
Teenage brothers 18-year-old Nick and 14-year-old Tyler come across a small UFO when it lands right in front of their truck on an empty road near their town. Soon after evading government agents, mainly agent Armstrong, and keeping the UFO in seclusion, Tyler undergoes dramatic physical changes and gains superhuman powers due to his dramatic trip into space via the UFO, including enhanced strength and telepathy. The situation becomes even more difficult to cover up considering Tyler is being constantly blown off by Nick, due to Nick's efforts at chasing Julie Gunn, as well as Nick having to make a science project to graduate high school and reptile-like aliens that have begun to appear and pursue Tyler. After having literally no one left to turn to, Tyler decides to tell agent Armstrong about the UFO. After agent Armstrong explains to Tyler about the effects that his trip into space had on his body, he shoots the ship with a laser gun, thereby critically damaging it, before he reveals himself to Tyler as one of the aliens in disguise and captures him.

Nick, feeling guilty for constantly doubting and ignoring Tyler, goes to the UFO hideout to apologize, but upon finding Tyler missing and the UFO damaged, he begins an attempt to repair the UFO, which has biological parts. After trying all night, he is successful and the UFO takes him to the hidden caves the aliens have made into their fortress, realizing the entrance is actually an impact crater from the aliens' crash-landing on Earth. Nick locates Tyler and helps him escape his holding cell. The brothers uncover that the aliens are planning to take over Earth by polluting the atmosphere. Tyler uses an alien explosive from the UFO to destroy the aliens and their pollution equipment, and he and Nick escape in the UFO. However, they do not succeed in destroying all the aliens, and they are chased by a surviving one (possibly Armstrong) in a more powerful version of their UFO.

After destroying the alien fighter and its pilot in a high speed, fast-paced dogfight, the UFO crashes at Nick's high school graduation. Nick then uses his fixing of the UFO as his science project, and is allowed to graduate. Nick wins Julie over and they kiss, Tyler gets a date with Katie Wallace and they get to keep the UFO. Assuming that all of the aliens were destroyed, the boys go on with their lives. However, at the end of the movie while taking the UFO for a joy-ride (with its new stereo system that Nick installed which is notably blasting the theme song of the movie, Low Day by Capra), four agent Armstrongs are seen watching them, revealing at least four of the aliens survived and are plotting another attack on them and the human race, thus leaving the possibility of a sequel.

####Slave Girls from Beyond Infinity####
Daria  and Tisa, two nubile female prisoners, clad only in rough-cut rabbit skin bikinis, break out of their cell in a space gulag, overpower their guards, and escape in a shuttlecraft.

The ship mysteriously malfunctions and the girls crash land on a nearby habitable world where they become the guests of Zed, a man with a scarred face who lives in a large fortress. He is the planet’s sole sentient inhabitant and is guarded by two robots who also act as the fortress' keepers.

Given new clothes, the girls are invited to join Zed for an evening meal at his table. At dinner, the two girls meet two other survivors from another crash-landing who are also Zed’s guests, Rik and his sister Shala. They warn the girls that something is not right about Zed and that other survivors of their crash have disappeared.

A late night visit to Zed’s secret trophy room reveals all. The walls are lined with the heads of dozens of Zed’s previous guests whom he hunted for sport.

Realizing they're next, Rik and Daria sneak out into the jungle several hours before dawn to set traps and survey the area.  In the meantime, Zed takes Shala prisoner and forces himself on her to goad Rik into participating in the hunt.  Zed sends an android to ensure the guests are in bed where they're supposed to be, but Rik and Daria are still out.  Tisa intercepts the android on its way to check the rooms and distracts it by going skinny dipping.  Eventually, Zed goes up to check the rooms himself.  As Rik and Daria are coming in the window, they hear Zed approaching, strip, and jump into bed, pretending to have been having sex.  Once Zed leaves, the pretend sex becomes real lovemaking, and the two lie in bed talking about having found purpose and contentment.

The next morning, Rik is forced into the hunt and becomes Zed's trophy.  Daria and Tisa attempt to escape and are captured.  They are chained to a column with Shala and told the rules of the hunt.  The trio is then turned loose by Zed, to be hunted as game; he warns them to stay away from the "Phantom Zone".

Shala sacrifices herself to save Tisa from Zed.  Using a map, the remaining two find their way to the Phantom Zone, an ancient temple inhabited by zombie-like creatures. They find a cache of laser weapons, and return to the jungle to fight Zed, pursued by one of the creatures.  Zed knocks Daria off of a bridge over a chasm to her apparent death; unbeknownst to him, she saves herself by grabbing hold of a vine.  He returns with Tisa to his fortress where he attempts to rape her.  Daria interrupts and fights him; the monster that was pursuing her shows up, mortally wounds Zed, and attacks the women.  They manage to kill the creature and find a spaceship to escape the planet. Zed, dying from his injuries, initiates a self-destruct of his fortress but Daria and Tisa escape in time, and decide to explore the universe.

####Sleep Dealer####

"Sleep Dealer" is set in a future, militarized world marked by closed borders, virtual labor, and a global digital network that joins minds and experiences, where three strangers risk their lives to connect with each other and break the technology barriers.

Memo Cruz works at a factory, one of several sleep dealers. Here, workers are connected to the network via suspended cables that plug into nodes in their arms and back, allowing them to control the robots that have replaced them as unskilled labor on the other side of the border. The sleep dealers are called so because one may collapse if one works long enough. The story is told as a flashback, as Memo remembers his home in Santa Ana Del Rio, Oaxaca. His father wants him to participate in growing crops on the meager family homestead. Memo's passion, however, is electronics and hacking. The homestead also has dried up because of a dam built nearby and owned by the private corporation Del Rio Water. Memo and his father must trek on foot to buy water by the bag while monitored by security cameras armed with machine guns. The media on American hi-def TV shows glimpses of a technological dystopia, although in a positive light with superficial spin-doctoring. Memo is building an electronic receiver that can tap into communications as a hobby. As he continues to work on it, its range increases to faraway cities.

One summer, a remote-controlled military aerial vehicle operated by the security forces of Del Rio Water catches Memo monitoring a frequency used by the drones. This act warrants a brutal attack. He disconnects in time before the drone can locate him with certainty. On another occasion, he and his brother watch a live TV broadcast about a drone action that is about to destroy a building known to be intercepting drone communication. They quickly realize that the building is their own home, where Memo has his equipment, and run to save their father, whose life is in danger. However, they are too late, and the vehicle launches a rocket at the father, instantly killing him. The drone pilot is a Mexican-American named Rudy Ramirez. Memo boards a bus to the city of Tijuana to find work.

Luz Martínez also boards the same bus. Memo notices that Luz has nodes on the wrist for interfacing with the digital network and asks her where he can get them for free. She tells him that he can find someone, known as a coyotek, to connect him by asking around in a certain alley. Luz has loans and may default. She makes a living by uploading memories to an online memory trading company, TruNode, where viewers pay for content. She uploads her memory of meeting Memo.

Memo is robbed of his money during his first attempt to seek a coyotek. He finds an abandoned shack in which to stay at the edge of the city, where other node workers live. Luz gets a sale for her memory of Memo and a prepaid offer for her next memory of him. Luz finds him and learns he is out of money. She helps him get a node job at a bar that has the equipment. She is the coyotek, having learned from her ex-boyfriend, and she does him a favor.

Luz tries to upload more experiences. TruNode makes her reveal feelings rather than just the story. The person who requested the information is revealed to be Ramirez working for Del Rio Water. Luz and Memo open up to each other and have connected sex. Upon receiving the next upload, Ramirez has his doubts confirmed that his work made him kill a good man.

Memo discovers that Luz has been paid to upload her memories of him, and so he leaves her feeling betrayed. He works overtime at the sleep dealer, risking exhaustion. Luz writes to him and mails him a recording of her memories as a parting gift. In the meantime, Ramirez has crossed the fortified US-Mexican border to meet Memo. As Ramirez explains himself, Memo tries to run, perceiving danger. Ramirez catches up and explains he was under orders and offers to help.

Memo rejoins Luz and recruits her help to connect Ramirez to the network. He accesses the Del Rio Water security network to control one of the company's drones. Upon discovery that Ramirez is not heeding orders, other drones pursue Ramirez. After heated aerial dogfighting, Ramirez manages to blast a hole in the dam, directly where Memo's father had once tossed a pebble in helpless frustration. Memo receives news from his home and neighboring subsistence farms, celebrations of returning ancestral waters, albeit not necessarily a permanent one. Ramirez goes farther south in Mexico as he can no longer return to his family in the US. Memo moves on with his life in Tijuana.

####Smosh: The Movie####
Anthony Padilla and Ian Hecox are best friends and live in a small house, with Ian's parents. Anthony has a dead-end job as a pizza delivery man and Ian is a stay at home YouTube stalking man child and prankster. After returning from the Game Bang game center, in which they were bullied by some street kids due to Anthony's pizza car, they find a video of Anthony reciting the "Magic Pocket Slave Monsters" theme at their high school graduation. In the video, Anthony attempts to impress his crush, Anna Reed, by trying to do a backflip, but he fails, landing on his face, and resulting in the microphone subtly going in his anus. After learning their 5th-year high school reunion is on the same day, the duo decides to pull down the video before it blows Anthony's chances of reconnecting with Anna.

They travel to the YouTube headquarters, where they meet a receptionist named Stephanie, who introduces them to the President of the company, Steve YouTube. Steve explains that the only way to fix the video is by going inside YouTube through a portal and changing the video from the inside. Anthony insists that it is important enough to go through with it, so Ian accompanies him in traveling into YouTube. Steve provides the duo with two electronic phones equipped with an artificial intelligence named Diri and sends them through the portal that is behind his closet door. After tumbling through a series of YouTube videos, they eventually end up in a Jenna Marbles vlog. Jenna warns them that once their Diri phones run out of battery, they will be permanently stuck in YouTube, just like her; they find out there are two Jennas.

They decide to split up, but Ian immediately abandons the mission and travels to his YouTube crush video, "Butt Massage Girl", while Anthony escapes a furry party, gets advice from Steve Austin, and finds out that Anna really likes him too. Diri takes Anthony to the Butt Massage Girl video that Ian is getting a massage in. Anthony tells Ian that his and Butt Massage Girl's love is fake and that it's only a video.

The duo then make it to the embarrassing video, where a furious Anthony discovers that Ian was the one who recorded and uploaded the video. Ian finally expresses his frustration with how boring Anthony has become, which leads to an argument between the pair. They both engage in a fight that lasts through three other videos, ending with them returning to Anthony’s video. Ian decides to make it up to Anthony by beating up his past self, preventing his humiliation. Anthony then goes to help him, but past Ian interferes and attacks Anthony, while Ian is trying to knock out past Anthony. In the process, the other students also start to fight one another. During the battle, Diri reveals itself to be Steve YouTube, who tells them that sending the two into YouTube was part of his evil scheme to keep them in YouTube forever.

Frightened, they race to escape YouTube via their video history, with Steve putting several unsuccessful obstacles in their way, as they make it to the portal only for Steve YouTube to be there waiting for them. Suddenly, a bear appears and attacks Steve, allowing the duo to escape YouTube. Returning to the real world, Anthony and Ian discover that, due to their changes to Anthony's embarrassing video (and therefore literal history), they have become famous, turning the video into the "Clone Fight" video; in which they met the President of the United States, created a movie, a TV series, and a show on Broadway. Through this, Ian is dating Butt Massage Girl, Anthony has 30 girlfriends, whom he immediately rejects and the duo are now living in a mansion in which Ian's parents live with them. Steve YouTube, now going by You-too-bay, has Anthony's former job as a pizza delivery man and Jenna Marbles is the CEO of YouTube. Butt Massage Girl accompanies them as they go to their high school reunion.

As they arrive at their reunion, they discover they are the most famous ones there. When Anthony seeks out Anna and finds her, he is dismayed to find out that Anna loved him back in the day, but she was intimidated by him being rich and famous. Encouraged by Ian and an image of Austin, Anthony performs 'Magic Pocket Slave Monsters', and successfully performs the backflip, alongside Ian and finally wins Anna over, and they kiss. Butt Massage Girl and Anna meet onstage to which Butt Massage Girl reveals her name is Brad, to which Ian exclaims explosively.

In a post-credits scene, Ian marries Brad with Anthony crying in the background.

####The Space Between Us (film)####
####The Space Children####
Dave and Anne Brewster, with their sons Bud and Ken, arrive at the main gate of a seaside trailer park that houses the personnel working with the military to complete the "Thunderer", a huge rocket that will place an atomic device in permanent Earth orbit. Dave Brewster is a technician who works for the company that provided parts for the top-secret "Thunderer" project, which will allow the USA to strike back within minutes at any nation that attacks America. The orbiting atomic device can be brought down on a selected city by remote control.

Seven children from various families, who live in the trailer park and are involved with the secret project, meet on the beach and become friends. While playing together, the kids observe a strange beam of light shining down onto a rocky section of the beach about a mile away. As they watch, a small, glowing object slowly floats down amid the beam and disappears among the rocks.  As they watch the glowing object descend, Bud Brewster (Michel Ray) behaves as if he is listening to a voice only he can hear. He smiles and nods several times, showing no fear or confusion despite the strange situation.

That evening, after a community cookout involving all the parents and kids, the seven kids ask permission to take a walk on the beach. They head directly to a place among the rocks along the beach where they encounter a small, glowing, alien life form shaped somewhat like a human brain, resting on the sand. The kids' behavior clarifies that they are receiving the alien's thoughts and they all understand that Bud Brewster has been designated their leader as they perform a vital task for the glowing alien.

Bud and his brother Ken (Johnny Crawford) return to their trailer and tell their parents about the alien.  Dave Brewster becomes angry, believing that his son is lying to excuse the fact that he and Ken stayed out so late and worried their parents, but when Dave grabs Bud in a threatening way, his arm is suddenly paralyzed. Bud calmly explains that he and all kids are under the alien's protection. Confused by the situation, but convinced now that his sons are not lying, Dave accompanies six of the kids back to the alien's rocky hideout. The seventh, Tim Gamble (Johnny Washbrook), is roughly accosted by his drunken, abusive stepfather Joe (Russell Johnson). Tim breaks away and runs after the group, but Joe chases him, shouting violent threats of severe punishment.

Joe catches up with Tim and throws him to the ground, then picks up a piece of driftwood and raises it to strike him savagely. Just then, the alien, shown in its hiding place among the rocks, suddenly blazes with light. Joe is thrown backwards forcefully, saving Tim. Terrified, Joe flees the scene.

Moments later, Tim joins the other children and Dave as they arrive at the alien's lair. Acting on its instructions, which it silently conveys to Bud, Dave gently carries the alien back to the trailer. Once there, Bud explains to his parents that they must keep the alien safe until the following evening, but he does not explain why. His mother Anne (Peggy Webber) is understandably frightened for her family's safety because of the possible threat this bizarre being from space might pose.

When Tim Gamble enters his own family's trailer, he finds Joe Gamble's dead body just as an ambulance arrives. In the next trailer, Bud and Ken tell their parents that the alien killed Joe because he threatened Tim's life.

The next morning, the Brewsters discover that the alien has doubled in size, now measuring several feet across.  Dave Brewster receives a phone call from the base where the "Thunderer" is located, informing him that the rocket will be launched that night.   He and his wife realize that the alien's purpose on Earth is somehow connected to the launch of the "Thunderer". While Dave is still on the phone, Bud and Ken are shown carrying the alien out and taking it to a cave along the beach. Dave knows he must alert the authorities, and he hurries to the base to warn them about the possible threat from the alien. When he meets with Dr. Wahrman (Raymond Bailey) and Colonel Manley (Richard Shannon), Dave's voice is suddenly paralyzed, and he passes out when he tries desperately to write a message.

During the next few hours, the children are shown quietly moving about the base, performing mysterious tasks while the alien exerts mental control over various people and objects such as sentries and locked gates to ensure that the children's secret mission is carried out.

Dr. Wahrman visits Dave Brewster in the infirmary. Now fully recovered, Dave discovers that he is able to tell Dr. Wahrman about the alien. Wahrman realizes that he, too, will be prevented from speaking to others about the alien, so the two men drive out to the cave in which the alien is now located.  The alien has grown even larger, an unearthly mass of slowly pulsating tissue, glowing with an eerie light whose brightness varies from moment to moment. Dr. Wahrman tries to communicate with the alien, hoping to learn what it is directing the children to do, but the alien remains silent. Wahrman and Brewster give up and rush back to the base just as the "Thunderer" is about to be launched.  They both realize that the alien will stop them from trying to interfere.

When the countdown reaches zero and the launch button is pressed, an explosion within the nose cone destroys the nuclear warhead, rendering the "Thunderer" useless. The children have succeeded in sabotaging the warhead. Wahrman orders the soldiers to follow him back to the cave, where they confront the seven children as they calmly stand shoulder-to-shoulder, blocking the cave's entrance.  Suddenly, the huge alien mass glides majestically out of the cave behind the children and rises up into the sky.  As the adults gaze upward to watch the alien ascend on a beam of light like the one that brought it to Earth, Dr. Wahrman asks Bud why the "Thunderer" was destroyed.

Bud tells the adults that his group did what other groups of children have done in several other countries; they sabotaged the rockets that would have carried dangerous nuclear devices into space, making humankind's self-destruction too easy if such devices were ever used. The aliens were concerned about humankind's welfare, so they relied on teams of loyal children all over the world to prevent humankind from making a terrible mistake.

####Space Cop####
####Space Cowboys####
In 1958, two U.S. Air Force pilots and aspiring astronauts William "Hawk" Hawkins and Frank Corvin are testing a modified Bell X-2 when Hawk decides to break speed and altitude records.  The plane stalls and they are forced to eject, narrowly missing a Boeing B-50 Superfortress flying with navigator "Tank" Sullivan. On the ground, Frank punches Hawk, but their fight is broken up by flight engineer Jerry O'Neill. Their boss, Bob Gerson chastises Hawk before taking them to a press conference, where he announces that the newly created NASA, rather than the USAF, will be conducting space flight tests.

In the present day, NASA is tasked to prevent a Soviet communications satellite, IKON, from decaying out of orbit and crashing to Earth because of the uplink loss. The satellite's archaic electronics are based on those of Skylab that Frank had developed. Bob, now a project manager at NASA, requests Frank's help. Frank still despises Bob, but agrees provided he has the help of "Team Daedalus" including Hawk, Tank, and Jerry. Bob plans to have younger astronauts shadow the four, so as to replace them before launch. When the press learn of Frank's team, the Vice President convinces Bob that they must be part of the mission for publicity. The old and young teams soon work together, with the older astronauts showing off skills learned without the aid of onboard computers.

The Space Shuttle "Daedalus" finds the satellite. It is not a communication satellite but in fact houses six nuclear missiles, relics from the Cold War and a violation of the Outer Space Treaty. Frank discovers that the satellite control system was stolen from Bob's files by the KGB, and without a control signal from the ground via the damaged uplink, the satellite's computers will launch the missiles at predetermined targets. NASA and the crew plan to use the payload-assist rockets to push the satellite into deep space. However, one of the younger astronauts, Ethan Glance, acting under Bob's original orders, tries to put the satellite into stable orbit himself. He sets off a chain reaction: the satellite collides with the shuttle, damaging most of the shuttle's computer systems and engines, destroying the solar panels on the satellite, and sending it into a faster decaying orbit, while Ethan is knocked out and dragged along with the satellite.

While Tank and Jerry tend to the other young astronaut Roger Hines, who suffered a concussion on the impact, Frank and Hawk space walk to the satellite in time to activate a booster rocket and slow the orbit's decay. As they see to Ethan, they realize that the only option is to have someone ride on the satellite as they fire the missiles' engines so that it escapes into deep space. Hawk, who was recently widowed and who has eight months to live from pancreatic cancer, sacrifices himself, hoping that he will be able to land on the Moon to fulfill his life's dream.

Frank, Tank, and Jerry now plan to bring the shuttle down over water since landing it would be difficult, but the shuttle comes in too fast. After safely bailing out Ethan and Roger, Tank and Jerry stay with Frank regardless of the risk. Frank recalls a maneuver Hawk had used before, purposely increasing the shuttle's angle in the flare to bring the aircraft near a stall, thus allowing the shuttle to drop its speed quickly and allowing him to land the shuttle safely.

The film ends with the Frank Sinatra song "Fly Me to the Moon", zooming in on the surface of the Moon showing that Hawk had indeed landed there before he died.

####Space Master X-7####
A space probe returns to Earth covered with a mysterious fungus, which, when accidentally mixed with human blood, transforms into an ever-growing pile of space rust. If not stopped, the infection could eventually cover the entire world.

####Space Oddity (film)####
####Spectres (film)####
Kelly is a 16-year-old suicide survivor, her mother Laura Lee is at a loss when it comes to what should be done next so she takes Kelly away for the summer to a holiday home. But strange things start happening and Kelly starts acting like a different person. Kelly's therapist, Dr. Halsey, seeks the assistance of a psychic.

####Spectres of the Spectrum####
In the year 2007, a telepathic woman Boo Boo and her father Yogi live in a post-apocalyptic wasteland. The New Electromagnetic Order rules the world, opposed by the TV Tesla resistance movement. Boo Boo, able to withstand the radioactive atmosphere, must go back in time 50 years and trace TV broadcasts of "Science in Action" to find an encoded secret from her grandmother. Meanwhile, Yogi scans the history of the electromagnetic conflict. After decoding the secret message, Boo Boo flies into the Sun to unleash a chain reaction that weaponizes the Sun's energy.

####Split (1989 film)####
A big brother-like leader from another dimension known as the Director controls our every move while letting us believe that we have free will. Starker is a homeless man for whom no records exist so he is able to elude the Director and his Agency. He attempts to counter the oppressive message and is forced to go into hiding with a round disc that he believes is the gateway to a greater humanity.

####Star Leaf####

The film begins with Tim (Tyler Trerise) and James (Julian Gavilanes) as Marine Snipers in the Hindu Kush mountain range of Afghanistan, on a mission to assassinate a high ranking Taliban leader. Their mission is soon compromised when a young child enters the scene, forcing James to take a risky shot that accidentally leads to the child's death.

One year later, Tim and his girlfriend Martha are on a roadtrip with James to La Push, Washington. Tim is hoping the trip to the beach will help James with his PTSD. They stop at a mysterious biker's house named Seth Guardrail Slaughter (Russell Hodgkinson) to get a map that will lead them to a legendary strain of extra-terrestrial cannabis growing in the Olympic Mountains.

The trio use the map to navigate their way towards finding the "Garden of Weeden". Eventually, they find the ET marijuana, and Martha proceeds to violate the first rule of the grove - no cell phone usage that could give away the GPS coordinates of the sacred stash.

Around a campfire they begin to smoke the Star Leaf and experience a wide range of hallucinations and visions. James starts to hear voices - Afghan voices as his PTSD begins to manifest violently. Then, a UFO flies overhead. The group cannot tell if these things are real, or just side effects of smoking Star Leaf.
To their shock, a forest ranger named Ranger Dave (Richard Cranor) suddenly enters their campsite as well. Joining them around the campfire, Ranger Dave proceeds to give an awkward and mysterious oral history of the Star Leaf, and what its spiritual effects are on those who smoke it.

Later that night, James is woken by mysterious orbs floating inside his tent. Along with the rest of the group, they experience multiple alien encounters that force them to flee the campsite. Soon it's discovered that Tim has stolen some Star Leaf clippings, a major violation of the rules governing the Star Leaf grove, and the reason behind the growing alien interference.

The group is split up - escaping into the woods James suffers multiple PTSD flashbacks. Ranger Dave and Seth Guardrail Slaughter intervene on his behalf, offering him an opportunity to redeem himself and his friends if he's willing to return Tim's stolen Star Leaf back to the grove, despite the Alien threat. James rises to the occasion, facing his most troubling fears and returns the Star Leaf successfully, allowing him to process fully his PTSD experience in Afghanistan and leading to much needed healing for himself and Tim.

The film ends with the group finally making it to the beach and surfing the ocean waves.

####Star Trek: The Motion Picture####
In the 23rd century, a Starfleet monitoring station, "Epsilon Nine", detects an alien entity, hidden in a massive cloud of energy, moving through space toward Earth. The cloud easily destroys three Klingon warships and "Epsilon Nine" on its course. On Earth, the starship "Enterprise" is undergoing a major refit; its former commanding officer, James T. Kirk, has been promoted to Admiral. Starfleet Command assigns "Enterprise" to intercept the cloud entity, as the ship is the only one within range, requiring its new systems to be tested in transit.

Citing his experience, Kirk uses his authority to take command of the ship, angering Captain Willard Decker, who has been overseeing the refit as its new commanding officer. Testing of "Enterprise"'s new systems goes poorly; two officers, including the ship's Vulcan science officer Sonak, are killed by a malfunctioning transporter, and improperly calibrated engines nearly destroy the ship. Kirk's unfamiliarity with the ship's new systems increases the tension between him and Decker, who has been temporarily demoted to commander and first officer. Commander Spock arrives as a replacement science officer, explaining that while on his home world undergoing a ritual to purge himself of emotion, he felt a consciousness that he believes emanates from the cloud, making him unable to complete the ritual because his human half felt an emotional connection to it.

"Enterprise" intercepts the energy cloud and is attacked by an alien vessel within. A probe appears on the bridge, attacks Spock, and abducts the navigator, Ilia. She is replaced by a robotic replica, sent by the entity, which calls itself "V'Ger", to study the "carbon units" on the ship. Decker is distraught over the loss of Ilia, with whom he had a romantic history, and becomes troubled as he attempts to extract information from the doppelgänger, which has Ilia's memories and feelings buried inside. Spock takes an unauthorized spacewalk to the vessel's interior and attempts a telepathic mind meld with it. In doing so, he learns that the entire vessel is V'Ger, a non-biological living machine.

At the center of the massive ship, V'Ger is revealed to be "Voyager 6", a 20th-century Earth space probe believed lost in a black hole. The damaged probe was found by an alien race of living machines that interpreted its programming as instructions to learn all that can be learned and return that information to its creator. The machines upgraded the probe to fulfill its mission, and on its journey, the probe gathered so much knowledge that it achieved sentience. Spock discovers that V'Ger lacks the ability to give itself a purpose other than its original mission; having learned everything it could on its journey home, it finds its existence meaningless. Before transmitting all its information, V'Ger insists that the "Creator" come in person to finish the sequence. Everyone realizes humans are the Creator. Decker offers himself to V'Ger; he merges with the Ilia probe and V'Ger, creating a new life form that disappears into space. With Earth saved, Kirk directs "Enterprise" out to space for future missions.

####Star Trek: Hidden Frontier####
Based in the Briar Patch (Tikrit Expanse) introduced in "Star Trek: Insurrection", on Deep Space 12, a space station in orbit of the planet Ba'ku. It follows the daily life of several officers serving on board the station and a few of the ships stationed there. Early in the series, an advanced species, the Grey, are introduced and become the primary villain, with a story arc that spans the entire series. Later, secondary villains are introduced including an Andorian trader and later the Tholians along with a man named Siroc. Mysterious ancient alien artifacts become a key focus of the series.

The crew interacts with many established species from "Star Trek", including Andorians, Ba'ku, Klingons, Romulans, Son'a, and Tzenkethi.

####Star Trek: Phoenix####
####Star Trek: Planet of the Titans####
####Stargate: The Ark of Truth####
####Starship Exeter####
####The Stepford Husbands####
In the prologue, a docile man suddenly kills his wife in a violent method and then commits suicide.

Several months later, graphic artist Jodi and struggling author Mick Davison (Mills and Ontkean) move to Stepford, Connecticut, in the same house, hoping that life in the seemingly idyllic town will help rejuvenate their troubled marriage. Jodi reunites with old college friend Caroline (Williams) and meets the brilliant Dr. Borzage (Douglas) as well as the intimidating Miriam Benton (Fletcher), who heads a powerful women's group. Mick notices the docile men in the community, including Caroline's husband (who shows surprising moments of aggression), but befriends sloppy neighbor Gordon; both agree they are unnerved by the community. However, both Jodi and Mick are concerned when Gordon undergoes a radical behavior change after a stay at the Stepford Institute for Human Behavior, afterwards thinking only of his wife Lisa, but ignoring his son and other interests.

Caroline subtly manipulates the Davisons and drugs Mick at a party.  When Mick reacts to the drug, Jodi is convinced that her husband has serious problems and commits him to the Stepford Institute for a cure. Mick is given mind-altering behavioral therapy and psychotropic drugs, altering him to behave docilely, but passionless. Jodi is concerned about the drugs Mick takes as part of the therapy; when she learns that the previous couple in her house (of the murder-suicide) was linked to heavy drugs, she replaces Mick's drugs with placebos. The serious side effects of the treatment becomes clear, the men can become violent, and Mick crashes and threatens to kill Jodi. They reconcile when he is convinced that she did not know of the Institute's motives or methods (in essence, Caroline had made the decision for Jodi). They plan to leave immediately.

Caroline has learned of the Davisons' plan to leave town. With the other residents, Caroline captures them in their own house. Mick is returned to the Institute for reconditioning while Jodi is forced to escape to rescue Mick.  Benton allows Jodi to find Mick in the Institute but, with Dr. Borzage, plans to kill her. Borzage, however, is alarmed by the out-of-control ethics and kills Benton with a hypodermic needle meant for Jodi. Borzage then allows the Davisons to escape.

In the epilogue, the fate of the town is not revealed, but Jodi and Mick have returned to New York City. Mick has written a book about the experience and a movie will soon be made.

####Storm Watch####
####Stranded (1987 film)####
A grandmother, Grace Clark, and granddaughter, Deirdre Clark, live on a remote farm in the remote American South. They find themselves hostages of a family of aliens who crash land near their home. The aliens are escapees from a war-torn world hoping to hide on Earth. Due to a misunderstanding, the aliens kill the granddaughter's boyfriend, and this leads to their discovery and being attacked by the locals.

The locals have been worked into a frenzy by the killed boy's father, a local hothead, which quickly devolves into a hostage situation. Hollis McMann, an African-American sheriff, tries to control the situation and get everyone, aliens included, out alive. His efforts are made more difficult by the alien family's robot guard, an alien assassin from the family's home world, and the prejudice of his own deputies and the locals.

####Stranger from Venus####
A flying saucer is seen in the sky above the British countryside by various eyewitnesses, including an American woman driving in her car. She crashes after being blinded by the spaceship's landing lights and deafened by its loud propulsion system. A stranger walks up to the crashed car and sees that she is badly injured.

The stranger later enters a country inn very near where the accident took place. He is able to read people's thoughts, and when asked his name, he says he has no name. Dr. Meinard, a local having a drink at the inn, introduces himself and is able to examine the stranger, and discovers that he has no pulse. The stranger also asserts that he is responsible for saving the life of a recently missing car accident victim, Susan North. She later walks into the inn a little dazed, but with her crash wounds nearly healed. After the mysterious stranger announces that he comes from the planet Venus, a guest at the inn, Arthur Walker, a high-ranking British government official (and Susan's fiancé), calls the Ministry of War to inform them of the alien's arrival. The area surrounding the inn is quickly cordoned off by the government.

Journalist Charles Dixon tries to learn more about the alien from Venus. Dixon discovers that the stranger is able to fluently speak multiple human languages, and that his civilisation has learned about humanity from listening to our radio broadcasts and viewing our television transmissions. He also explains how Venusians use "magnetic brilliance" to power their spaceship propulsion, supplied by the magnetic energy fields of the other planets in our solar system, as they revolve in their various orbits.

When governmental officials arrive at the inn, the stranger from Venus outlines his purpose for coming to Earth: to prepare the way for the arrival of his superiors, who have a dire warning for humanity's leaders. Humans are developing dangerous technologies without measuring their long term destructive consequences. Nuclear explosions create very dangerous magnetic field effects that threaten Venus and the other planets. Should fifty hydrogen bombs be exploded in the same general location in a future atomic war, they could alter the Earth's orbit, affecting its gravitational field and thus the orbits and gravity of all other planets in the solar system. The stranger makes a promise that if Earth eliminates these dangers, Venus will share some of its higher scientific knowledge. During the meeting, however, the alien concludes that humanity is far from ready to receive such advanced knowledge and announces this conclusion to the British officials.

After his communication disc, allowing him to contact the approaching spaceship, is removed from his room by a policeman, the alien quickly realises that an interplanetary meeting of minds can never take place. The British military soon arrives and cordons off the spaceship's landing site. They turn it into a magnetic trap in order to seize the Venusian saucer for its advanced technology.

Should the government carry out this warlike action, the stranger assures Walker that an immediate retaliation from an orbiting mothership would terminate all life in England. Walker tries to dissuade the war ministry, without success, so he acquires the stolen communication disc and returns it. The alien is able to warn away the approaching spaceship and an interplanetary conflict is avoided. Discussion with all of Earth's leaders has been derailed by the British government's short-sighted greed and treachery. The future now uncertain, and his peaceful mission to Earth a failure, the stranger from Venus speaks one final time to Susan North and vanishes without a trace.

####Strangers in Paradise (1984 film)####
####Strings (2011 film)####
####The Summerland Project####
Amelia and Carter Summerland are a newly married couple. Amelia has an aneurysm and becomes locked in. Carter is approached by a corporation who would like to use Amelia as a test subject for a procedure where they will copy her personality and memories into an android body.

The themes of "The Summerland Project" have been compared to "Pygmalion", "Blade Runner" (and its source material "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?"), "Frankenstein", and "The Monkey's Paw". The story raises questions about the nature of humanity.

####Super Hybrid####
On the back streets of Chicago, two would-be car thieves walk past a jet black car (a fourth generation Chevrolet Nova), only to turn back a few seconds later to find a red sports car (a Chevrolet Corvette Z06). As they climb inside they discover the ignition, the handles and every means of escape have instantly vanished, the windows go black around them and their screams are soon cut off. Driving out to the main street, the black car is demolished by a car flying down the road. The people of the second car are severely injured, but the authorities don't find any passengers in the black car and they have it impounded at a police garage. While there, the vehicle miraculously pieces itself together and kills one of the crewmen, Hector by ramming him into an elevator shaft.

Ray, the garage owner is unable to find Hector and he tells his crew; Gordy, an experienced mechanic with a hearing aid, another mechanic Al, and Bobby, a student whose aunt Tilda got him the job, to go find Hector so they can move cars off the third level. Al and Bobby find the black car, but are unable to find Hector. Tilda arrives and is chewed out by Ray for Bobby studying on the job, she asks Ray's secretary Maria if she'd seen a necklace that she lost the night before, but Maria doesn't know. Tilda is sent down to help find Hector and comes across the car, which she and Bobby find strange to the touch like it isn't made out of metal and engine, which is completely silent makes hissing noises when they listen to it. After they separate, Al comes across a 1968 Lincoln Continental which he starts to climb into before he is interrupted by Tilda. Suddenly the car comes to life, wrapping a tentacle-like appendage around Al and sucking him into the car, Tilda is unable to free him and is struck by the car as it escapes. Initially Ray and the others think she imagined the entire thing, but when the car comes back, Ray orders the hood opened and a giant snake's head bursts from it, nearly killing the four of them. It goes after Maria who is rescued at the last moment by Tilda; luring the car away from the girls, Gordy is run under the car that strikes an electrical box, killing him and putting the garage on emergency power.

With the lights limited, the group searches for Ray's keys to the exit but can't find it, all emergency exits and access points outside are welded shut to prevent drug addicts from breaking in and stealing their equipment. Ray suggests they hunt the car down and kill it, Tilda agrees as she noticed evidence that it is 'bleeding' a strange metallic substance indicating it is still injured from its earlier accident. They work to set up a Burmese tiger trap using welded spikes in the elevator shaft, and a large tarp to trick the car into it. Meanwhile, the car slowly starts making its way down toward them, setting off the alarms to alert the others of its location. The group fashions Molotov cocktails to use against the car, Tilda acts as the bait to draw it into the trap, but is chased down by the car. Maria throws a cocktail at the car, which bounces off and incinerates her by accident and she falls to her death in the pit. Set back by their loss, the three remaining decide to go ahead with the plan. Bobby gets into the police SUV they'd been using and they discover it is a trap. Tilda tries to free Bobby, but it kills him and drives off. Ray and Tilda go after the car and are nearly outsmarted when it double backs on them, Tilda and Ray manage to get it to fall into the pit and Tilda knocks a car from above on top of it, killing it.

Ray reveals he had the keys to the exit the entire time and opens the garage for Tilda to leave, her boyfriend David comes in and examines his destroyed Trans Am, and she walks off while Ray dials a News station to tell them about what happened. Tilda notices five more cars like the one they'd killed go toward the garage, but seems too desensitized to care, distraught over her loss. Ray, however notices he is surrounded by the cars that all turn their headlights on him, but his fate is unknown.

####Superman (1978 film)####
####Superman (serial)####
Superman is sent to Earth by his parents just as the planet Krypton blows up and is later raised as Clark Kent by a farm couple. They discover that he has great powers so they send him off to use his powers to help those in need. After his foster parents die, the Man of Steel heads to Metropolis under the bespectacled guise of Kent and joins the staff of the "Daily Planet" in order to be close to the news. Soon after he is sent out to get the scoop on a new rock that a man has found that he calls Kryptonite, and Clark passes out; then and there Superman discovers that his weakness is Kryptonite. Whenever emergencies happen, he responds in his true identity as Superman. This first serial revolves around the nefarious plot of a villain who calls herself the Spider Lady.

####Synchronicity (film)####
####Taking Tiger Mountain (film)####
####Tarantula!####
A severely deformed man is found dead in the Arizona desert. Dr. Matt Hastings, a doctor from the nearby town of Desert Rock, Arizona, is called in by the sheriff to examine the body. It appears to be that of biological research scientist Eric Jacobs, an acquaintance of Hastings'. Jacobs' colleague, Dr. Gerald Deemer, says Jacobs died of acromegaly, but Hastings is unconvinced, since acromegaly takes years to reach its current state. Deemer acknowledges that Jacobs's development of acromegaly was rapid, over just four days, but insists that such anomalies are to be expected on occasion.

In his home and research laboratory in an isolated desert mansion, Deemer keeps rabbits, white rats, hamsters, and a tarantula, all of enormous size, some as large as Golden Retrievers. Deemer's assistant, doctoral student Paul Lund, is now deformed like Jacobs, and attacks Deemer, smashing the glass covering a tarantula's cage and setting the lab aflame in his rampage. Lund grabs the hypodermic needle that Deemer was using on the lab specimens and injects him with the contents. As flames engulf the lab, the tarantula leaves and Lund collapses and dies. Deemer regains consciousness, grabs a fire extinguisher, and puts out the fire. That night, Deemer buries Lund in the desert.

A newcomer to town, Stephanie Clayton, nicknamed "Steve", has signed on to assist in Deemer's lab. Told by the hotel clerk that she will have to wait until the only taxi returns, she accepts a ride from Hastings, who is also going to Deemer's lab. At the mansion, they encounter local journalist Joe Burch, who is asking questions about Jacobs's death, but getting the runaround from Deemer. Deemer tells Hastings and Clayton that the fire was caused by an equipment malfunction, all the test animals were killed, and Lund has left his employment. Deemer explains his work - the use of a radioactive element to produce an artificial super-nutrient, which once perfected, could provide an unlimited food supply for humanity.

Days later, the sheriff asks Hastings to accompany him to Andy Anderson's ranch as he investigates picked-clean cattle skeletons and large pools of a thick, white liquid. The tarantula, now grown to the size of a tank, is the cause. That night, Anderson and two men inside a pickup truck are killed by the tarantula.

The next day, at the scene of the wrecked truck, Hastings looks around at the request of the sheriff, and once again finds pools of the white liquid, of which he takes samples. He calls Deemer to ask him to analyze the liquid, and Clayton answers. Deemer ambushes her, and the phone call is cut. Hastings drives back to the mansion, where he finds Deemer near death, suffering from severe acromegalic deformities. Deemer divulges all that he knows about the nutrient and says that Lund and Jacobs tested it on themselves against his advice. Hastings flies the samples of white liquid to the Arizona Agricultural Institute in Phoenix. The substance is determined to be tarantula venom.

Hastings flies back to Desert Rock. As night falls, the tarantula, now larger than a house, attacks the mansion. Deemer is killed, but Clayton escapes. Hastings returns for her in his car. The tarantula pursues them down the highway toward the town. The sheriff's men intercept, but their guns have no effect. Dynamite is gathered from town, but a blast large enough to blow up the highway does not faze the tarantula. As they evacuate the town, an Air Force fighter jet squadron, summoned by the sheriff, launches a napalm attack, incinerating the tarantula at the town's edge.

####Target Earth (film)####

After a failed attempt at suicide, Nora King regains consciousness and discovers that her building has no electricity or water, so she wanders into the now quiet, empty streets of her city. Stumbling over the body of a dead woman, who has been killed, she encounters Frank Brooks, who has just recently revived after being beaten unconscious in an overnight robbery.

They join forces to find others in the deserted city. Hearing piano music coming from a nearby cocktail lounge, they come upon a couple, Jim Wilson and Vicki Harris, who are drinking. They were incapable of joining the evacuation of the population that took place. Proceeding together as a group, they continue to search the deserted streets, coming upon a car that will not start. Another survivor, Charles Otis, sees them and tells them that the same applies to all the other cars he has tried.

A growing apprehension takes hold as they begin to appreciate that they are alone and must face an unknown menace that has caused the city's evacuation. Charles finds a newspaper in a hotel lobby that proclaims that a "mystery army" is attacking the city from the north. In a panic, he runs outside and is killed by a death ray emitted from an alien robot in the street.

While attempting to defend the city, a military force, led by Lt. Gen. Wood, sets up a command post. After Air Force fighters and bombers are quickly destroyed by the advancing invaders, the use of atomic weapons is considered as a serious option. A group of scientists, including their chief research scientist, finally get their hands on a damaged robot to discover its vulnerabilities.

The small band is joined by Davis, a psychotic killer, who has his own plans for survival. The survivors quickly realize they not only gave an armed enemy within their small group, but a host others out to get them from outer space. Jim and Vicki are killed by Davis as they attempt to overpower him, but Davis is later killed by one of the invading robots. Army units later arrive in the streets, now fully equipped with a special sonic weapon transmitter that easily dispatches the invading robots, halting their invasion.

####Teleios####
####Terminal Voyage####
In 2035, global warming rendered the Earth barely inhabitable and its human population is on the verge of extinction. The Earth Federation sends a space ship on a century-long trip to a distant planet Trion which could be suitable for colonization. The eight crew-members come from Russia, United States, China, United Kingdom, France, and Saudi Arabia.

As the ship approaches Trion, the crew wakes from hibernation. They immediately find a decomposed corpse of the Captain in his capsule. The ship's XO, Commander Hollis, assumes command. When he reads a secure transmission from Earth received while they were sleeping, he commits suicide, leaving a note that he "joins his loved ones". The new CO, Lieutenant Jammad, reveals the content of the message: the Earth has been devastated in a nuclear holocaust.

Zinovitz discovers that the ship's systems have been tampered with. A fight for power ensues and Becker, as a representative of the government, relieves Jammad from command. He is soon found dead in a malfunctioned virtual reality simulator. The remaining crew-members suspect that Becker killed the officers and use force to arrest her, discovering in process that she is an android.

When questioned, Becker denies any guilt then sets off the self-destruction sequence. Granier and Han are too devastated to continue and commit suicide with a morphine overdose, and Reese and Zinovitz make it to the escape capsule. As the countdown reaches zero, they find themselves in an underground simulation facility stationed on Earth. There was no space flight – it is their final test, an "extreme stress simulation" scenario which involved the death of the commanding officer and multiple system failures. The crew have only been in hibernation for 6 months, and Hollis, Jammad and Becker apparently knew about the test.

However the nuclear war on Earth was indeed real, and the facility is empty and abandoned. The film ends with a view of a destroyed city, as Reese and Zinovitz look on to uncertain future.

####The Terminators (film)####
The film takes place at an undetermined point in the future, when humanity has developed advanced robotic technology with enhanced artificial intelligence. This includes the use of cybernetic organisms (or "cyborgs") called the TR-4 (all TR-4s are played by Paul Logan) for general labor. After being reprogrammed by the newest model TR-5, the machines instigate a cybernetic revolt against humanity, bombing cities and sending thousands of armed, identical TR-4 androids to eradicate all human life.

A band of survivors, led by small-town Sheriff Reed (A Martinez), battle to make it through and defeat the TR-4s. During their journey, they encounter a mysterious man, Kurt Ross (Jeremy London) who possesses a weapon that can disable any TR-4 it hits. Ross also has intimate knowledge of the TR-4s and is heavily implied to have met Reed in the past. With Ross's help, Reed's group struggles through several battles with the TR-4s and ultimately locate an airship used by the machines to travel. Ross proposes that they travel to the space station where the TR-4s originate from and shut them down remotely, but they must first acquire fuel for the ship. They find the fuel, but Sheriff Reed is shot in the leg by a TR-4.

On the ship, the survivors discover metal beneath Reed's skin, causing him to begin questioning his existence. Ross reveals that Reed is actually one of the first TR-5s, planted in the community with Ross as his handler. Reed's memories are all implants based on Ross's own memories. Bronson (Dustin Harnish) becomes paranoid and believes the other survivors are also androids, but Chloe (Lauren Walsh) persuades him by revealing she is pregnant. At the space station, the group battles the TR-4s en masse, resulting in Bronson's death and Tiffany (Lucinda Rogers)  becoming separated from the others. Ross attempts to shut down the TR-4s but the control console fights back, repeatedly locking him out. Suddenly, the TR-4s all shut down, and Ross ominously realizes their power is being funneled to a much worse problem – the giant TR-5 that caused the rebellion in the first place. The massive robot appears and kills Ross with a blade mounted in its arm after shrugging off his EMP weapon, then attacks Chloe. Reed appears and baits the TR-5 into an airlock, and Chloe ejects both it and Reed into outer space. The TR-4s come back to life despite Tiffany hitting the shutdown switch, but when she rips the cords from the control box, they all die simultaneously. Chloe, Tiffany, Tanner (Mark Hengst), Laura (Krystle Connor) and Chloe's unborn child are left as the only survivors, possibly of all humanity.

####Terror Beneath the Sea####
####They Saved Hitler's Brain####
World War II is over, and Nazi officials remove Adolf Hitler's living head and hide it in the fictional South American country of Mandoras, so that they can resurrect Nazi Germany in the future. Fast-forwarding into the 1960s, the surviving officials kidnap a scientist with expertise in nerve gas in an attempt to conquer the world. The scientist's son-in-law is a security operative and the scientist's daughter travel to Mandoras to rescue the scientist and foil the evil plot.

####This Ain't Avatar####
After the original events of "Avatar", Jake Sully reveals in a video log that the Na'vi have a darker side. After sexual flashbacks which show moments in the film which purport to show what actually happened, the film shows what occurs after the human corporation leaves Pandora. The Na'vi turn out to be "fetish-fueled sex fiends", who have a massive orgy after the corporation leaves, and then reveal their true purpose for keeping humans in a twist ending.<ref name="AVNinterview" />

####The Time Capsule####
In high school, Jack's girlfriend Elise went on a space mission. Twenty years later, Jack is a married politician and Elise returns to Earth, having not aged a day due to time dilation. Jack, who still has feelings for her, faces a moral dilemma about love.

####Time Changer####
Bible professor Russell Carlisle (D. David Morin) confronts and lectures a boy who has stolen marbles from his neighbors, calling his action unjust.  The year is 1890 and Carlisle has written a new manuscript entitled "The Changing Times", which promotes good morals without discussing Christ. The book is on track to receive a unanimous endorsement from the board of the Grace Bible Seminary, until colleague Dr. Norris Anderson (Gavin MacLeod) objects, fearing that Carlisle's book could harm coming generations, arguing that teaching good moral values without mentioning Christ is wrong.

Dr. Anderson invites Carlisle' to his home later that evening to show him something that would prove his point. Using a secret time machine, Anderson sends Carlisle over 100 years into the future, offering him a glimpse of where his beliefs will lead.

Arriving in the early 21st century, Carlisle is shocked to find that half of all marriages end in divorce (instead of 5% in 1890), teenagers talk openly about deceiving their parents, films contain blasphemous language and people who go to church are so bored by the sermons that they need extra activities. Before he returns to his timeline, he guest speaks at the local church and expresses his shock at how godless and wicked the generation has become, even in the church, reminding everyone that the faith is something to take seriously, and their souls are in jeopardy if they don't truly commit to Christ. He tries to convince a laundromat worker, Eddie Martinez (Paul Rodriguez), to go to church and read the Bible.

Two churchgoing police investigators grow suspicious of Carlisle, who acts as if he is seeing everything for the first time, realizing his identity from history, believing it is something he is posing as. They confront him as he is about to be transported back to the past. As the sky grows thunderous, Carlisle seems delirious as he talks about how the second coming of Christ is drawing near. Carlisle vanishes. The men look at where he vanished and one of the men says with dread, "I think we just missed the Rapture."

Carlisle rematerializes in 1890 and excitedly tells Anderson he will revise his book. He gives the thieving boy his own set of marbles and explains that it is Jesus Christ who demands honesty. Anderson decides to find out the world's end by trying to send a Bible to the future. The machine won't operate with a target date of 2100, so he tries with progressively earlier decades 2090, 2080 and 2070, which fail. As the film ends, he makes at least two more failed attempts, aiming earlier and earlier.

####Time Chasers####
Physics teacher and amateur pilot Nick Miller (Matthew Bruch) has finally completed his quest of enabling time travel, via a Commodore 64 and his small airplane.  After being inspired by a television commercial for GenCorp, he uses a ruse to bring out both a GenCorp executive and a reporter from a local paper.  To Nick's surprise, the reporter is Lisa Hansen (Bonnie Pritchard), an old high school flame.  One trip to 2041 later and Gencorp's executive, Matthew Paul (Peter Harrington), quickly arranges Nick a meeting with CEO J.K. Robertson (George Woodard).  Impressed by the potential of time travel, Robertson offers Nick a licensing agreement on the technology.

The following week, Nick and Lisa meet at the supermarket and go on a date to the 1950s.  However, another trip to 2041 reveals that GenCorp abused Nick's time travel technology, creating a dystopian future. In an attempt to tell J.K. about how GenCorp inadvertently ruined the future. J.K. dismisses the eventuality, and states that there's enough time to worry about how to fix it before it happens. J.K. sees Nick as a threat to GenCorp, and due to the association with the U.S. Government, considers Nick's actions as treason. Nick and Lisa escape GenCorp and spend the remainder of the film trying to reverse the damage to the future. When J.K. finds out about this, he and Matt try to shoot down Nick's plane, killing Lisa in the process while Nick jumps out before the plane crashes. This ultimately culminates in a fight in 1777 during the American Revolution, the deaths of the present Nick and Robertson, and the destruction of the time machine before the original demo, thus ensuring that the majority of the film's events never happen in the first place.  The film ends with the now current Nick (now aware of the danger of his time machine) sabotaging his demonstration, and doing a pitch of how an elderly skydiver would be a better ad campaign for J.K.'s company. Furious about being misled, J.K. fires Matt. Nick deletes the data that makes time travel possible. At the end of the film, Nick talks to Lisa in the supermarket as he did in the previous timeline.

####Time Lapse (film)####
Finn (Matt O'Leary) is a painter with a creative block, who lives together with his girlfriend Callie (Danielle Panabaker) and his best friend Jasper (George Finn) in an apartment complex where Finn works as a manager. Because elderly tenant Mr. Bezzerides (informally called "Mr. B" by the protagonists) has not paid his rent in two months, Callie checks on him, and discovers a strange machine in his apartment that takes Polaroid photos of their living room's picture window&mdash;apparently 24 hours in the future, always at 8 pm, although Mr. B's photo display includes daytime photos and is missing some photos. The friends check Mr. B's storage unit and find his inexplicably charred corpse; he has apparently been dead for a week. Gambling addict Jasper pushes to use the machine to win bets but loses, and the next day's photo confirms they will do just that. It also shows that Finn has finally created a new painting; copying the work in the photo gets him past his block. Based on what happened to Mr. B and notes in his journal, they theorize that they have to make sure the events in the photos&mdash;whatever they may be&mdash;have to occur, or their timeline will stop, and they will therefore cease to be.

Several days go by. The friends cover up Mr. B's disappearance, including lying to the complex security guard, Big Joe, claiming the old man is in the hospital. After a week they get a disturbing photo: Callie kissing Jasper, while Finn paints in the background. Feeling that they have to do what's in the photos, they pose at 8pm the following night.  But the actual kiss goes on too long while Finn paints, and he gets angry and jealous.

The next photo shows Jasper's violent bookie Ivan at the apartment. Not knowing why he would be there, Jasper calls him the next morning, saying he won't be making any bets that day. The call raises Ivan's suspicions and he visits Jasper that night, learning of the machine. Ivan forces the friends to now pose for the photos with many more event results for Ivan to make bets on. Finn and Jasper's friendship is strained by these events, as Ivan will be keeping each night's photo, preventing Finn from seeing his painting. Jasper manages to get a cellphone picture of the next photo before giving it to Ivan's goon, Marcus. This photo shows a hastily made skull and crossbones on the canvas, which Jasper believes is a warning to themselves, so he hides weapons (a kitchen knife, golf club, and hammer) near the couch.

The next evening, Finn runs into Big Joe at the gate, who has just gotten a job as a police officer. Marcus sees their meeting and calls Ivan, who does not believe their story about Big Joe. Ivan threatens all of them, but Jasper convinces him that tonight's new photo is of Ivan's death at Marcus' hands. While Ivan is retrieving the photo, Jasper stabs Marcus, then clubs Ivan to death on his return. They hide the bodies in Mr. B's storage unit. Finn and Callie fight, so Finn sleeps on the couch. Later that night, they are visited by Mr. B's colleague, Dr. Heidecker, who is looking for Mr. B.  Finn and Jasper can't keep their stories straight about Mr. B, so Dr. Heidecker levels a gun at them and forces them to confess. Mr. B had mailed Heidecker a photo that covers the next night, but taken before his death, meaning that the machine could be set to take photos more than 24 hours in advance. The photo shows blood on the window, Mr. B's hat on the friends' couch (Jasper has taken to wearing the dead man's hat), and a picture of a green coil that resembles the broken device on the ground next to Mr. B's corpse. Dr. Heidecker theorizes that "time" did not kill Mr. B for trying to change the future - he knocked over a coil in his storage unit and the released gas killed him. As she does not know how to adjust the settings of the machine, Jasper shoots Heidecker dead using Ivan's gun.

The next night's photo shows Callie and Jasper having sex in the window with Finn unconscious on the couch. Finn talks with Jasper to try to devise means to prevent events, but Jasper knocks him out and locks him in Mr. B's storage unit&mdash;he does not believe Dr. Heidecker's theory and intends to prevent a paradox, making sure the photo happens, no matter what. Trying to find a way out of the locked storage unit, he searches Heidecker's purse and finds the photo that includes blood on the window, Mr B's hat on the couch, and the painting of the coil, and realizes that he had to have painted the coil in the future the next day so that Mr. B would die in the storage room in the first place, thus allowing him to escape using Mr. B's keys. He escapes and goes to the machine. He calls Jasper, who sees him at the machine, and threatens to destroy it if Jasper does not stop. A fight ensues, culminating with Callie smashing Jasper's head in. When making the painting to match Heidecker's photo, Finn realizes a discrepancy. He discovers that the camera also takes a photo at 8 am, a truth which Callie kept to herself. Callie reveals that she has been using the morning photo to send herself messages to manipulate events and rekindle her relationship with Finn; the sex photo is one of those missing from Mr. B's wall, from a drunken night a month ago (the other missing photos are ones of Callie and Jasper being affectionate, which she took down from the wall when she first discovered the machine). Finn rejects Callie and goes to destroy the machine, so she shoots him, creating the blood splatter on the window from Heidecker's photo - she thinks that if she sends herself a message in the window when the photo is taken, it will send a message to herself 24 hours ago, preventing these events from happening. While Callie is attempting to tape a note to herself on the window, Big Joe stops by, discovers the murdered Jasper and Finn, and arrests her.

As Callie is led away by Joe - confident that the timeline will reset - the note she left falls off the window, making permanent the events that have taken place. The camera takes the photo that Mr. B had mailed to Heidecker before he died, and generates another photo, which is left unrevealed.

####Time Travelers (1976 film)####

During a Mardi Gras parade in New Orleans, a girl becomes the latest victim of the deadly virus "XB". Dr. Clinton Earnshaw (Sam Groom) has been following the outbreak but only is able to diagnose it. The federal government assigns him Jeff Adams (Tom Hallick), who has no medical or scientific training. Though Earnshaw is initially bemused by the assignment, Adams' value emerges when he remembers the 19th century discovery of a virus with similar characteristics. Known at the time as "Wood's Fever", it was discovered by Dr. Joshua P. Henderson (Richard Basehart). Both men know that Henderson's notes were destroyed in the 1871 Great Chicago Fire, his only remaining artifact a gold pocket watch.

Adams introduces Earnshaw to a former NASA physicist and Nobel laureate, Dr. Amos Cummings (Booth Colman), and his colleague Dr. Helen Sanders (Francine York). The physicists have been experimenting with time travel and reveal their plan to send Earnshaw and Adams back in time to find Henderson's cure for Wood's Fever. After being outfitted with period gear, clothing, a small microscope and portable centrifuge, Earnshaw and Adams are briefed on the dangers of time travel. They step through a vault-like door into a room with a view of endless cloud-filled sky, and the process begins.

On arrival, they discover that the machine has placed them a day and a half later than expected in the center of Chicago, instead of near Henderson's home outside the city with three days to achieve their goal. Posing as doctors sent from Washington, DC, they find Henderson at his hospital and ask him about his success with the virus. Henderson confesses that he does not know why his patients are surviving. His treatment involves palliative drugs washed down with homemade elderberry wine. Adams and Earnshaw perform their own tests on Henderson's patients, but are equally baffled by their recovery. While trying to obtain a blood sample from one of the survivors, Adams initially thinks he's killed the man but discovers that he had not been cured and would have died anyway. Their mission is further complicated when Earnshaw and Henderson's niece, Jane (Trish Stewart), fall in love. Earnshaw contracts the virus while working with Henderson's patients.

When the Great Fire breaks out, the travelers are no closer to the cure. Adams decides to take all of Henderson's paperwork and return to the future, but he is interrupted when a suspicious assistant enters the room. The assistant holds a telegram from Washington, responding to Henderson's cable of thanks with the information that Adams and Earnshaw were not sent by the government.

Earnshaw realizes a substance in Henderson's homemade wine is the cure; the only patients who succumbed were those who refused to take alcohol. The race is on to recover the last bottle of wine. They show Henderson the futuristic microscope and centrifuge and recite the inscription inside his pocket watch, convincing him that they are from the future. Despite knowing their fate, the Hendersons remain at the hospital with a trapped patient and perish in an explosion. The travelers return to the departure point with the wine just in time.

In 1976, Henderson's wine saves Earnshaw and also the girl stricken during Mardi Gras. After the success of their mission, Adams and Earnshaw visit the graves of Henderson and his niece in Chicago. They place a letter of thanks from the President on Henderson's grave. Earnshaw admits that in loving Jane he "fell in love with history".

####The Time Travelers (1964 film)####
Scientists Dr. Erik von Steiner, Dr. Steve Connors, and Carol White are testing their time-viewing device, drawing enormous amounts of power. Danny McKee, a technician from the power plant, has been sent to tell them to shut down their experiment. During the test, odd shadows quickly cross the room immediately before the screen shows a stark, barren landscape. Danny discovers the screen has become a portal and steps through.

The portal becomes unstable, and the others enter it to rescue him. The portal disappears, stranding them. Pursued by hostile primitives they seek refuge in a cave, which they discover leads to an underground city – all that is left of civilization in a future devastated by nuclear war.

The year is A.D. 2071.  City leader Dr. Varno explains that Earth is unable to support life, and that the residents, along with their androids, are frantically working on a spacecraft which will take them to a planet orbiting Alpha Centauri. The four time travelers, told they may not join that space voyage, are however allowed to work on recreating their time portal to return to their own time. Before the residents can lift off, the degenerate mutant humans break in, destroy the ship, and encroach on the city proper.

Dr. Varno determines that now the only hope is the time portal, so he commits the city's remaining resources to help von Steiner, Connors, White, and McKee rebuild the time portal. They feverishly work as the mutants continue their invasion. Along with a few people from the future, the four travelers escape back to the present just ahead of the mutants, leaving a rear guard of androids. One person throws an object back through the portal which damages the equipment on the other side and shuts down the portal.

The survivors and their futuristic companions return to the lab, only to make a strange discovery. Their past selves are still in the lab, yet to pass through the portal, but they appear frozen. The travelers then realize that they are experiencing time at an accelerated rate; the rest of the world, including their past selves, is moving in extremely slow motion. Their only option is to travel to the date the portal had briefly been set to before being more firmly set to A.D. 2071.  That previous date is over 100,000 years in the future, but the screen is, as before, dark; what lies ahead is unknown. They quickly cross the room, casting the shadows which had been seen before.

When the last one goes through, the screen flashes on briefly and shows the travelers walking in a clearing with trees and grass; the surface of the Earth habitable again.  They begin to build a future there. The film then shows their past selves moving at normal speed again, repeating their actions at an ever accelerating rate to a resounding musical score; the sequence of events of the entire movie rapidly cycles, repeating with ever briefer and fewer clips, leaving the viewer in a time-loop until it abruptly ends (without further explanation) with a shot of the Andromeda Galaxy.

####Timebomb (1991 film)####
Mild-mannered watchmaker Eddy Kay (Michael Biehn) runs into a burning building to save a trapped woman and is featured in the news as a result. Watching the news, Colonel Taylor (Richard Jordan) is shocked to see Eddy, whom he had assumed to be dead. A game of cat and mouse begins as Eddy, with the help of psychiatrist Dr. Anna Nolmar (Patsy Kensit), tries to discover his past and why they want him dead.

Eddy and Dr. Nolmar discover that he was part of a secret government program to create assassins. Using various sensory deprivation and brainwashing techniques, the assassins could be sent to infiltrate other organizations and facilities undetected and carry out programmed missions.  Eddy manages to capture and interrogate one of the female assassins (Tracy Scoggins), finding out the Colonel's current assassination plan. He then plots to confront Colonel Taylor and put an end to the assassination program once and for all.

####Timelock (film)####
####Timemaster (film)####
####Tobor the Great####
At his underground laboratory in Los Angeles, Professor Nordstrom (Taylor Holmes), worried that manned space exploration is too dangerous, enlists the help of Dr. Ralph Harrison (Charles Drake), who recently left the new government-appointed Civil Interplanetary Flight Commission. The two scientists embark on a research project to create a robot that can replace humans for space flight. Nordstrom's daughter, Janice Roberts (Karin Booth), and her 11-year-old son Brian (Billy Chapin), nicknamed “Gadge”, become very interested in the project.

When a press conference is called to announce the creation of "Tobor", reporters, such as the inquisitive journalist Gilligan (Alan Reynolds), are invited to Professor's Harrison's home to see the remarkable invention. In order to undertake space travel, the remote-controlled robot has been given some human capabilities, including the ability to "feel" emotions and react via a telepathic device built into his robotic brain. Under the watchful eyes of Harrison's trusted assistant Karl (Franz Roehn), the giant robot Tobor is unveiled and then demonstrated. Unknown to the scientists, a foreign spy chief (Steven Geray) has quietly joined the group of reporters; he quickly draws up a plan to steal the robot.

While trying to perfect the robot's control systems, an inadvertent episode involving Gadge, who sneaks into the laboratory and turns on Tobor, shows that the robot can make emotional connections with people. Gadge not only controls the robot, but when he is accidentally tossed about, Tobor appears to comfort him, as if he is sorry for hurting the boy. After cleaning up, the scientists realize that an additional chair was brought to the news conference, leading them to believe that someone has infiltrated the closely guarded laboratory. Aware that their robot could fall into the wrong hands, they construct a small transmitter in a fountain pen that is able to communicate with Tobor.

An organized attack by the foreign agents is thwarted by the defensive devices at the Nordstrom's home, so the spies devise another scheme. Sending Gadge and his grandfather an invitation to a space flight presentation at the Griffith Park Planetarium, they intend to hold them hostage. When Gadge and Nordstrom show up, the spies kidnap them. Dr. Gustav (Peter Brocco) tries to force Nordstrom to provide the crucial information needed to control Tobor.

When Nordstrom and Gadge do not return for the military demonstration of Tobor's abilities, Dr. Harrison contacts the local sheriff with his concerns that something dire has happened to them. Tobor is suddenly activated, reacting to messages sent by Nordstrom, and storms out of the house, driving away in a military Jeep. Nordstrom is actually controlling the robot remotely with the pen transmitter, while trying to fool Dr. Gustav. One of the spies realizes that the pen is important and snatches it away, breaking it.

Guessing that Tobor is going to rescue the professor and Gadge, Harrison and the military follow. At the agents' lair, when the transmissions stop, Tobor comes to an abrupt halt, but Harrison successfully re-activates the robot using telepathic commands. The spies threaten to hurt Gadge, who instinctively reacts and uses his mind to call out to Tobor. Nordstrom relents, writing out the control formula. With Harrison and the military, the robot breaks down the lair's door and attacks the enemy agents, rescuing the professor and Gadge. When one of the spies attempts to drive away with the coerced information, Tobor yanks him out of his car. Gadge is then gently carried out by the robot.

Later, when Tobor has been successfully reprogrammed, a spacecraft is launched with the robot in full control of the mission.

####Transmorphers####
In 2009, a race of aliens piloting giant robots have conquered Earth and forced humanity to live underground. They have done this by altering the environment, causing constant rainfall and darkness. Over 300 years later, after many generations of living underground, a small group of human rebels plan to finally take back their world from the mechanical invaders. They soon learn however that the aliens do not pilot the robots, but "are" the robots.

A patrol, led by Lt. Blackthorn (Thomas Downey), is sent out to capture one of the robots, a "Z-bot", so its operating ability can be studied. The patrol is suddenly ambushed by several robots, with some being able to reconfigure themselves, revealing different weapon systems. These units, the 'transmorphers', ambush humans by appearing as mundane features of the terrain, even fooling detection systems. The robots use "brain scans" to read the minds of humans to know their battle plans.

After Blackthorn's patrol is destroyed by the machines, a female lead officer of the human resistance group, General Van Ryberg (Eliza Swenson), argues with fellow officers of the Military and Science Guilds about how to fight the war. Despite some protests, Van Ryberg decides to reinstate a disgraced soldier named Warren Mitchell (Matthew Wolf), who was court-martialed along with his right-hand man, Itchy (Griff Furst), and cryogenically frozen for insubordination. They had killed their unit officer five years earlier. Mitchell is glad to be reinstated, but learns that his former lover, Karina Nadir (Amy Weber), a fighter pilot, is now married to General Van Ryberg.

Mitchell assembles a small military patrol with Itchy as his second-in-command, and Flight Commander Xandria Lux (Shaley Scott), as his military adviser. The patrol is sent out to capture a Z-bot, intact, so its fuel cells can be studied. They hope to shut the machines down by contaminating the fuel cell and placing it in a large radio tower which supposedly controls the machines.

Mitchell and his group ambush and destroy a group of patrol machines, and succeed in capturing one. During the battle, Karina and another female soldier named Blair (Sarah Hall) become stuck behind enemy lines right near the radio tower. They are forced to hide in the ruins around the tower while waiting for help to arrive.

Bringing the Z-bot back to their underground city, Mitchell realizes that the fuel cell has an implanted tracking device that leads the machines to the humans' underground city. Van Ryberg takes over as the field commander of the human army and leads them out in a last-ditch effort to defeat the robots, and to rescue her wife.

Mitchell then surprisingly learns from resident scientist Dr. Voloslov Alextzavich (Michael Tower), that he himself is an android constructed by Dr. Alextzavich, with human feelings and understandings. Mitchell realizes that he must get the Z-bot's fuel cell to the radio tower and implant it in the control computer in order to shut the robots down.

Supported by an aerial strike force led by Lux, Mitchell's team fly out and make it to the radio tower where they are able to rescue Karina and Blair. The group breaks into the building, but the anti-human counter-measures make all of them sick and they cannot make it to the main control room. The situation becomes more complicated when the tower reveals itself to be a giant robot. Mitchell then reveals to be an android himself.

Meanwhile, General Van Ryberg and her soldiers reach one of the terraforming stations and attempt to take it offline. They attempt to hold off a massive army of robots attacking the underground city. Lux then arrives with her fighter squadron to bomb the attacking robots.

Back at the radio station, Mitchell, using his android abilities, sacrifices himself and takes the tower out, buying enough time for the rest of his team to escape. Once the tower is destroyed, the robots all over the world shut down. With the battle won, Karina and Van Ryberg are reunited and the surviving humans see the sun shine through the clouds for the first time in centuries.

####Transmorphers: Fall of Man####
Taking place 300 years prior to the events of the first film in the then-present-day 2009, the narrator describes how the government knew what was happening. A woman is seen driving recklessly in her Nissan 350Z on a California highway while arguing over her cell phone. Police officer Ryan Hadley pulls her over and gives her a warning. The man calls her back, but she tells him off and throws the phone down; the phone then transmorphs into a robotic spider that attacks and kills her.

At Edwards Air Force Base, an NSA officer informs her superior about intercepting a signal. In Los Angeles, Jo Summers is shocked to read in the newspaper about of the death of the woman from the car. In the Kern County Morgue, the police are baffled by the wound that killed the driver. Madison arrives home to discover her television is out. A repairman is called to fix the television. It ends up being Jake, the afformentoned narrator, an old friend of Madison, who hasn't seen her since returning from military deployment. Jake investigates her satellite dish and is shocked when it transmorphs into a robot. He runs inside to warn Madison, but when he goes back outside, the robot is gone. Summers meets up with Hadley to investigate the death of the driver, but the NSA show up and asks her to go with them. She advises Hadley to find the driver's missing phone.

A man is driving a Nissan Xterra when his GPS gives him a five seconds warning to exit the vehicle, before shooting him in the forehead with a laser. Ryan meets with Madison and Jake and hears their story. He takes them in his car to look for the cell phone, but he is called to the scene of the SUV driver's body. A young boy tells Hadley that the SUV dumped the body and drove away by itself. Hadley picks up the first driver's cellular phone from the coroner's office. He then intercepts the SUV, which tries to ram him. When Ryan pulls the SUV over, they are jumped by the satellite robot. They drive away, but are chased by the SUV, who also transmorphs into a robot.

The machines quickly seize control of the Earth. After surviving an assault which kills Hadley, a small group learn that aliens are changing the water and the atmosphere to fit their physiology. They hear about this from a soldier who claims that this information came from Russia, where they captured and tortured one of the machines. They manage to salvage explosives and destroy one of the terraforming devices. This has a negative effect, though: the release of toxic chemicals into the atmosphere, to which the machines have adapted, and Jake sends a signal to other surviving humans, who have taken refuge underground, directing them to join him.

####Trapped by Television####
An inventor is working on his latest creation, a new form of television monitor and camera, but is struggling to complete his invention due to lack of funds. His monetary problems are compounded by an aggressive bill collector looking for payments and competition from a rival scientist. When organized crime figures are added to the mix, the desperation level rises for our intrepid inventor.

####Tribulation 99: Alien Anomalies Under America####
An alien race called the Quetzals flee the destruction of the solar system's tenth planet and find shelter on Earth, hidden under the South Pole. They construct underground cities out of their own excrement, with large networks of caves reaching up to humans' water and sewage systems. When the United States begins nuclear weapons tests in the 1940s, the Quetzals prepare a counterattack. They use their telepathic powers to distort Earth's culture, sowing hatred and violence, and they infiltrate human society with human replicants.

This causes many of the crises of the twentieth century—political assassinations, civil wars growing out of the Cold War, and economic collapses under neoliberal austerity. Harry S. Truman establishes the Central Intelligence Agency to wage a secret war against the Quetzals. The CIA mounts plots against various replicants in Latin America—Jacobo Árbenz in Guatemala, Fidel Castro in Cuba, and Salvador Allende in Chile. The Quetzals retaliate by assassinating John F. Kennedy and infiltrating the Democratic Party. The secret war escalates, and the Panama Canal is flooded with radioactive waste, melting the polar ice caps and flooding the entire planet. A small group of the political elite board spaceships to escape Earth. From space, they rejoice in the planet's destruction.

####The Twentieth Century Tramp; or, Happy Hooligan and His Airship####
A Twentieth Century up-to-date tramp flying over the chimney tops of New York City in the latest flying machine, a bicycle that has its own propeller. The vagabond flies over the top of the Equitable Life building and other New York sky scrapers, then flies over the East River and clears the top of the Brooklyn Bridge.

In making his way toward Staten Island, his flying machine blows up, and the tramp falls off his perch.#tag:ref| The film is extremely dark and hard to make out images from either split screen.|group=N

####UFO: Target Earth####
####Ultrasound (film)####
On a rainy night, Glen's car runs over a spike strip. He seeks refuge in the nearby home of married couple Art and Cyndi. Art invites him to spend the night. Art makes it clear that he is taking medication for his depression. Cyndi tells Glen that Art was her high school teacher and that she met him when she was 17 years old. Art persuades Glen to sleep with Cyndi. The next day, Glen walks home. Art mysteriously finds Glen and plays him a video showing a pregnant Cyndi. After Art leaves, Glen receives a text message from Cyndi telling him to "get rid" of Art. Glen and Cyndi reunite and talk about the baby.

Glen and Cyndi are actually patients in a mental asylum who have frequent sessions with Shannon and Dr. Conners. Glen reads from a script detailing his interactions with Cyndi. Meanwhile, Cyndi talks about a hypnotist who made her reveal she had a crush on Art. Shannon tells Cyndi that Glen was her high school teacher while Art was the hypnotist. Art had hypnotized Glen and Cyndi and made them believe they were expecting a baby. Dr. Conners reveals that Glen and Cyndi are still receptive to hypnotic suggestions, including convincing Glen that he cannot stand. Thus, when a certain airwave is played, he can stand up when his legs no longer work. Shannon criticizes Dr. Conners for not telling her about the airwave because she believes it is dangerous. Dr. Conners replaces Shannon with another doctor.

Shannon helps Glen and Cyndi escape the asylum and go to a hotel. Cyndi reveals that she was Art's assistant. Art's house where Glen and Cyndi first met was, in fact, an apartment. Using the airwave, Art hypnotized Glen into thinking he had sex with Cyndi.

Hours earlier, Shannon had used the airwave on Cyndi so the sound of running water would remind her of where she was. In the hotel room, Cyndi hears the sound and leaves a trance. Glen and Cyndi are still in the asylum. Shannon finds Dr. Conners, yells at him, and throws a chair that breaks the one-way mirror between them and the patients. Shannon, Glen, and Cyndi run away and leave the asylum once and for all. Glen, however, is still partially in a trance.

Senator Harris and Katie are expecting a baby. Harris hires Art to hypnotize Katie and tell her to stop calling him. Art tells Katie to imagine she had sex with Harris. Harris later hits Art, believing he had sex with Katie. Over the phone, Katie tells someone that she is pregnant. Meanwhile, Harris celebrates his re-election and Art tinkers with an earpiece playing the airwave.

####Unbreakable (film)####
####Uncanny (film)####
David Kressen, a child prodigy, graduated MIT a decade ago at age 19, after receiving multiple degrees in mechanical and computer engineering.  Since then, he has not been seen. On the day of his graduation, he was approached by Simon Castle, billionaire CEO and founder of Kestrel Computing. Castle made him an offer impossible to refuse. David went to Workspace 18, part of a program of intellectual angel investments that Castle makes to genius-level individuals to further the high level science they practice. For the last ten years, David has been working tirelessly in Workspace 18, perfecting his ultimate creation: Adam, an artificial intelligence that is indistinguishable from an actual human being.

Joy Andrews is a reporter brought in for a week of exclusive access to do a series of interviews about Adam and his creator. She initially regards the robot with curiosity but as their interactions build, Adam seems to respond to her presence. David, who she initially thought of as arrogant, emerges as naive, hiding behind a formidable existence. As their friendship develops and grows into something more, Adam begins exhibiting peculiar emergent behavior impossible to program.

####Under the Skin (2013 film)####
####The Underwater City####

Dr. Halstead (Carl Benton Reid) of the Institute of Oceanography hires Bob Gage (William Lundigan) to supervise the construction of an underwater city. If humans are going to blow themselves sky-high at some point in the future, then it might be a good idea to have an escape hatch down at the bottom of the ocean. Gage falls in love with Dr. Halstead's niece, Dr. Monica Powers (Julie Adams). A series of underwater living units are carefully created and tested until it seems that they are ready for residents to move in. What no one considers is that the sea floor and the sea itself may not be as stable as expected.

####Unforgettable (1996 film)####
####Unidentified (2006 film)####
####Universal Soldiers####
####Valley of the Dragons (film)####
Two men preparing for a duel in 1881 Algiers, Irishman Michael Denning and Frenchman Hector Servadac, are swept from the face of the Earth by a passing comet and find themselves on another world with cavemen and prehistoric animals. They try to find a way back to Earth. (Servadac is the only one of 36 characters retained from the original novel.)

The men are separated after an attack from an angry mammoth. Servadac finds refuge with the River People and falls for a beautiful blonde, Deena. Denning falls in with the Cave People, where he falls in love with brunette Nateeta.

The two men are reunited rescuing the Cave People from attacking Dinosaurs (this earth's dragons) with an avalanche. They persuade the River People and Cave People to stop fighting and settle down with their respective women. They vow to try and get on the Earth the next time the comet approaches in seven years.

####The Vanishing Private####
Donald Duck is doing some camouflage painting on a cannon with yellow, green, and red stripes and black dots (based on the colors of the Flag of Lithuania with bullet holes in it). Sergeant Pete sees it and scolds Donald, explaining that it needs to painted so it can't be seen.  Pete then demands that Donald re-paints the cannon to "make that gun hard to see". Obliging to the sergeant's orders, Donald walks to the "Experimental Laboratory: Camouflage Corps", disregarding the "keep out" sign, and walks in. He finds some "invisible paint", which he tests with his finger, and uses it to paint the cannon.

When Pete returns, he is shocked to find the cannon seemingly gone, believing it to be stolen. But of course, it isn't stolen, as the sergeant finds out the hard way by bonking his head on the underside of the cannon and discovering Donald inside. Angered that Donald painted the cannon too invisible to see, Pete blows hard into one end of the barrel, sending Donald out the other end and into the bucket of invisible paint. When Donald runs away, Pete finds out Donald has become invisible after seeing Donald's footprints on the ground. Donald then swims across a lake, but the invisible paint doesn't come off.

Pete continues to chase Donald through a field of flowers, until he accidentally throws some of the flowers on Donald, revealing his outline. Pete spots Donald and tries to catch him, but he gets away again. However, this gives Pete an idea to find Donald. When the General drives up, Pete's antics, including jumping around a tree while singing "Here We Go Round The Mulberry Bush" and throwing flowers, convinces the General that he is acting odd, especially after he asks the General, "Uh, did you see a little guy that you can't see?". The invisible Donald then deliberately puts a cactus down Pete's pants, making him scream in pain and jump around like a madman, making the General wonder what is going on with Pete.

Donald then walks around a nearby kitchen and sees some pies in the window, so he takes one of the pies and eats it. Pete then notices this and Donald deliberately throws the pie in Pete's face. Donald is then shown skipping a rope, which angers Pete, so he chases him around a tank. Donald then deliberately trips Pete, sending him literally under the grass, under some soldiers, and out again into the arsenal building, where he gets hold of several grenades, shouting "I'll blow you to parts!", and begins blowing things up to stop Donald, on the warpath against him, starting with a tree that literally flies into the air and floats down. The General sees this, growing worried for Pete's sanity, and when Pete runs towards him, he gets scared out of his wits, and hides behind a nearby power pole. The General tries to reassure Pete and stop his rampage, but Donald stands behind the General, who panickedly tries to tell Pete to calm himself, and when Donald deliberately pokes Pete in the rear with the General's sword, the startled sergeant jumps into the air and onto the General, releasing all of the grenades, which land on Pete and the General, injuring them in the explosion.

Later, Pete is locked up in a padded cell, wearing a straitjacket and chains, as he has been declared insane by the army for his bad actions. He pleads to Donald (who is on guard duty and no longer invisible anymore) to go tell the General of his sanity ("I ain't crazy. You know I ain't crazy! Go tell the general that I ain't crazy."), but Donald refuses, asking Pete "Do you think "I'M" crazy?" and whistles "The Army's Not the Army Anymore" as the cartoon irises-out.

####The Vanishing Shadow####
Stanley Stanfield is the inventor of the Vanishing Ray, a wearable device which, when active, leaves only the user's shadow still visible. After meeting with fellow scientist, Carl Van Dorn, a prototype Ray is built.  Stanley intends to sell bonds to finance his invention. He inherited them from his late father, the publisher and editor of the local "Tribune" newspaper, but the stockbroker he meets is corruptly involved with Wade Barnett, the businessman who hounded Stanley's father to his death. Barnett wants the bonds and will go to any length to acquire them. A conflict ensues between Stanley and Barnett during the 12 chapter serial. However, Stanley's new girlfriend, Gloria Grant, is really Gloria Barnett, his enemy's estranged daughter. Neither hero nor villain wants to see Gloria hurt and must work around this motive in their on-going struggle.

Dorgan, Barnett's "spear-point heavy", is unhappy with having to hold back to protect Gloria. Eventually, he captures both Stanley and Gloria, but blackmails his boss to ensure her safety. Barnett turns up with both the ransom money and the police, but he is shot in the ensuing fight. Before dying, he makes his peace with his daughter. Gloria and Stanley finally marry and take over operation of the "Tribune".

####Vibrations (film)####
"Vibrations" follows the story of TJ Cray, an up-and-coming rock star in the making. On his way to the big city to audition for an A&R man and secure a record deal, his car is hit by a car load of drunks who then use heavy machinery to sever his hands. With his hands gone TJ falls out of the music business and becomes a homeless drunk with plastic hands. TJ Cray believes all is lost until one night he is awoken in the dirty warehouse he sleeps in by a pulsating rhythmic beat. There's an illegal rave party in the warehouse and TJ is found by Anamika, a computer artist, who takes him outside for fresh air. They become good friends after TJs plastic hands help him stop Anamika getting raped by knife wielding rave thugs. Anamika introduces TJ to her friends, including Geek, who replace TJs plastic hands with metal robot piano playing hands. Eventually TJ has a metallic cyber suit made for him and he pioneers electronic music, becoming an overnight sensation known as Cyberstorm.

####Vinyl (1965 film)####
The film is about the youth perpetrator Victor, who spends his time lifting weights, dancing and torturing people. When he hits his friend Scum Baby, he calls the police. Victor gets the choice to go to jail or undergo a behavioral change. Victor decides on the treatment and is bound to a chair by a doctor. He has to watch violent videos and describe what is happening on the screen while warm wax from a candle runs over his hand. After a while Victor swears off the violence and is unbound. He rejects the doctor's request to beat him and take drugs. Victor is cured.

####Virtual Revolution####
In 2047, more than 75% of the population, known as the Connected, spend the majority of their lives living in online virtual games (called verses). The world is dominated by a few corporations, and politicians are happy to keep the masses docile through online games. After 148 gamers are killed in a computer virus attack perpetrated by terrorist group Necromancers, Synternis Corporation operative Dina hires shadow agent Nash to track and eliminate the attackers. Nash spends half his time online and is haunted by the death of his love Helena in a virus attack a few years back. Nash recruits a hacker, Morel, Helena's brother, to hack security video from Interpol servers. Synternis covers up the attack to avoid any involvement of Interpol. Nash infiltrates a Necromancer cell by taking over the online avatar of one of their members. There he learns that the goal of Necromancers is to break people out of virtual reality by any means. Morel's hacking attempts draw the attention of Interpol, which leads to Interpol intimidating him. Nash is ambushed at his flat by Camylle, leader of the Necromancers. She tells him that Synternis Corporation is responsible for the death of Helena, as they first developed the virus capable of killing players while online. Camylle asks Nash to help in her plan to free everyone by injecting the virus into a server at Synternis headquarters. This virus will systematically shut down all the verses, forcing people to confront the real world. Nash contemplates whether it is wise to force the unwilling populace into freedom. Before they can shut down the servers, a furious mob lynches the necromancers. Dina severs all the ties between Synternis and Nash. She also claims that he was misled; the virus that killed Helena was launched by the Necromancers, and Helena was a Synternis mole working inside the Necromancers. He does not know which version to believe. To escape his painful memories, Nash becomes one of the Connected and uses his fortune to add features and comforts to his online avatar. He reasons that since his brain can not distinguish between real and virtual, the online life is as good as real.

####The Voice from the Sky####
####Voyage of the Rock Aliens####

A guitar-shaped spaceship and Robot 1359 (voiced by Peter Cullen), search the universe for the source of rock and roll music. After discounting the planets Teldar and Malox, they come across Acirema.  After listening to a dance/musical performance of “When the Rain Begins to Fall”, featuring Pia Zadora and Jermaine Jackson portraying members of rival gangs who fall in love, à la  Romeo and Juliet, 1359 discounts this one too.

The last planet left to visit is Earth.  1359 wakes the crew to visit the planet. A rocket telephone booth lands in the town of Speelburgh and ABCD (pronounced "Absid") (Tom Nolan) with his group of aliens exit. The humanoid aliens force robot 1359 to take the form of a fire hydrant. Only the Sheriff (Ruth Gordon) witnesses their landing, and she becomes obsessed with alien invaders.

Dee Dee (Pia Zadora) is a singer in high school who is in love with Frankie (Craig Sheffer), the leader of Speelburgh's local high school rock band, The Pack (Jimmy and the Mustangs). She sings of her heart's desire to best friend Diane (Alison La Placa). Dee Dee's dream is to sing with the band; Frankie loves her but does not want her to sing with them. Meanwhile, a giant creature with tentacles lives in nearby Lake Eerie, a product of environmental pollution,  and it periodically extends its arms throughout the town.

As the aliens, played by the rock band RHEMA, search the area, they encounter Dee Dee, Frankie and The Pack at the local maltshop. Absid literally loses his head over Dee Dee (i.e. he explodes and needs to be put back together by his crew) and decides to win her heart. Meanwhile, his cohorts search for specimens such as flowers, leaves and cow chips. STUVWXYZ (pronounced "Stovitz") (Patrick Byrnes) stumbles across the path of two crazed mass murderers, Chainsaw (Michael Berryman) and The Breather (Wallace Merck), who recently escaped from The Speelburgh Asylum for the Criminally Insane.

Feeling dejected by Frankie's refusal to let her sing, Dee Dee succumbs to the charms of Absid, who asks her to be the singer of his band at the Heidi High Cotillion Dance and Battle of the Bands. Frankie and The Pack arrive at the school to keep the aliens out... but they cannot stop them because of the aliens' powers: they teleport into the bathroom through the toilets. Dee Dee finally gets her chance to sing at a battle of the bands between the aliens and The Pack, with the very jealous Frankie furious that Dee Dee has switched sides.

Absid and Dee Dee sneak off to the lake. While the tentacled creature searches the banks, Absid tries to convince Dee Dee to fly back to his planet. Hesitating, she agrees to visit the ship, but discovers once there that she will have to give up all human emotion to live on the alien's planet.

Meanwhile, Diane encounters Chainsaw at the high school. The crazed killer intends to make her his next victim, but his rusty chainsaw breaks down. Love blooms as Diane helps Chainsaw fix his chainsaw.

Bolting back to her true love, Frankie, Dee Dee finds him cornered in a school hallway by the Breather. Frankie manages to fend off his rival, only to be attacked by the monster from the lake, which has gotten loose and surrounded the school with its tentacles. With his chainsaw now repaired, Chainsaw rescues everyone.

In the end, the aliens board their ship and Absid decides to leave the humans "a little alien persuasion". He fiddles with the buttons in the booth and clears away all of the town's pollution. He also turns the brutal Pack into a group of boy scouts. The creature leaves town, the skies clear, flowers bloom and Frankie and Dee Dee sing and dance into a smogless sunset.

####Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea####
The new, state-of-the-art nuclear submarine, "Seaview", is on diving trials in the Arctic Ocean. "Seaview" is designed and built by scientist and engineering genius Admiral Harriman Nelson (USN-Ret). Captain Lee Crane  is the submarine's Commanding Officer. One of the on-board observers is Dr. Susan Hiller, studying crew-related stress. The mission includes being out of radio contact for 96 hours while under the Arctic ice cap. The polar ice suddenly begins to crack and melt, with boulder-size pieces sinking into the ocean around the submerged submarine (no explanation is given as to why the ice sinks). Surfacing, they discover the sky is on fire. After rescuing scientist Miguel Alvarez and his dog at Ice Floe Delta, "Seaview" receives a radio message from Mission Director Inspector Bergan at the Bureau of Marine Exploration. He reports that a meteor shower has pierced the Van Allen radiation belt, causing it to catch on fire, resulting in a deadly increase in the global temperature. Nelson's on-board friend and scientist, retired Commodore Lucius Emery, concurs it is possible.

The President summons Admiral Nelson to a UN Emergency Scientific meeting. Nelson and Commodore Emery have devised a plan to end the catastrophe. "Seaview" arrives in New York Harbor two days later. Nelson informs the UN that, according to their calculations, if the increasing temperature is not stopped, it will become irreversible and the Earth will die in about three weeks. The Admiral and the Commander propose extinguishing the fire by launching a nuclear missile at the burning belt from the Mariana Islands. A nuclear explosion should overwhelm and extinguish the flames, "amputating" the belt from the Earth. "Seaview" has the capability of firing the missile. The chief scientist and head delegate, Vienna's Emilio Zucco rejects the Admiral's plan as too risky. He believes the composition of the belt's gasses will cause the fire to soon burn itself out when reaching 173 degrees. Nelson disagrees with Zucco's theory, claiming that his estimated burn-out point is incorrect. Nelson and Emery's plan is rejected. The Admiral and the Commodore quickly leave the proceedings intending to get authorization directly from the President himself.

The "Seaview" races to reach the optimal firing position above the Pacific Ocean's Marianas trench in time for the needed angle of trajectory. Nelson and Crane attempt tapping the Rio-to-London telephone cable in an attempt to reach the President. During the cable tapping attempt, Crane and Alvarez battle a giant squid. They can only tap into the London cable, and Nelson learns there has been no contact with the U.S. for 35 hours.

An unsuccessful attempt on the Admiral's life indicates a saboteur is aboard. The rescued scientist, Miguel Alvarez, a religious zealot regarding the catastrophe, is the suspected saboteur. Dr. Hiller, who privately supports Dr Zucco's plan, is another suspect.

Other obstacles present themselves. The "Seaview's" main generator is sabotaged by a crew member who lost his mind, forcing Nelson to order Crane to proceed while repairs are made despite the risk of proceeding without power for the sonar and radar. As a result, the sub narrowly escapes a minefield left over from World War II. The crew are near-mutiny, to the point that when the "Seaview" encounters a motor ship whose crew is dead, Captain Crane and the Admiral allow any crew members who wish to leave rather than continue the mission to leave the sub and sail the derelict home.

Crane begins doubting the Admiral's tactics and reasoning.  A hostile, unidentified submarine pursues them, diving deep into the Mariana Trench, exceeding its crush depth; the sub implodes before it can destroy "Seaview".

The saboteur has shut down the sub's power. Crane encounters Dr Hiller, the saboteur, atop the shark tank, as she exits the restricted nuclear reactor core. Her radiation detector badge has turned red, showing she has been exposed to a fatal dose. When asked why, she says to prevent the sub from reaching its target. Suddenly an explosion rocks the sub, throwing Dr. Hiller into the shark tank. She is killed by the sharks.

"Seaview" reaches the Mariana Islands in time to carry out the Admiral's plan. He learns that temperatures are rising faster than projected, proving Zucco's theory is incorrect. Alvarez, believing it is God's will for the Earth to be destroyed, attempts to sabotage the mission by threatening to explode a bomb. The nuclear missile is launched toward the belt by Captain Crane, who launches the nuclear missile from outside the sub before Alvarez is aware. It explodes in the Van Allen Belt as intended, driving the burning flames away from the Earth and saving humanity.

As the sky returns to its normal blue color, "Seaview" turns for home, her mission completed.

####War of the Colossal Beast####
Upon hearing of several recent robberies of food delivery trucks in Mexico, Joyce Manning (Sally Fraser), Army officer Lt. Colonel Glenn Manning's sister, becomes convinced that her brother (Dean Parkin) survived after being exposed to radiation from an atomic bomb (as seen in "The Amazing Colossal Man"). Along with Army officer Major Mark Baird (Roger Pace) and scientist Dr. Carmichael (Russ Bender), Joyce goes to Mexico to look for Glenn and finds that he has, in fact, survived, but was left disfigured and nearly mindless by the trauma of his fall. Manning is eventually captured, drugged by the Army, and transported back to the United States. He is able to escape again and goes on a rampage through Los Angeles and Hollywood. He nearly kills a school bus full of children. Joyce reasons with him, and he slowly is brought back to his senses. Now realizing what he has become and what he has done, Manning commits suicide by electrocuting himself on high-voltage power lines near the Griffith Observatory.

####War of the Satellites####
Members of the United Nations space program are dismayed by the inexplicable annihilation of a manned satellite. The satellite is the tenth in the Sigma Project to be destroyed after coming into contact with a mysterious space barrier. At the control center, U.N. representative Mr. Akad demands that the project, which has yielded limited results, be terminated because of the loss of money and lives. Soon after, a young couple witnesses the landing of a small missile-like object which they turn over to authorities. After examining the capsule, the U.N. calls a meeting and reads aloud a message from the capsule that proclaims to be from the Masters of the Spiral Nebula Ghana, aliens displeased by Earth's repeated attempts to explore space. Calling humans a "disease", the aliens declare they will set up a quarantine to protect the universe.

In response, Mr. Hotchkiss, the United States representative, gives a rousing speech asserting that no other life force has the right to thwart mankind's ambitions, and the continuation of the Sigma Project is enthusiastically approved. After the meeting, the head of Sigma, Dr. Van Ponder, tells reporters that he suspects that the message is a fake, but nevertheless announces his plan to lead the next satellite mission. In private, Van Ponder reveals to colleagues and mission crew members, astronomer David Boyer and researcher Sybil Carrington, that the capsule has defied all analysis and its origins remain unknown. Over the next several weeks, preparations for the next mission proceed. One evening, Hotchkiss summons Van Ponder to a U.N. meeting, but while driving there, Van Ponder's car is attacked by a mysterious ball of light, which drives him off the road.

At the U.N., as Akad leads another diatribe against the project, Hotchkiss receives notification of Van Ponder's death. The council is stunned, however, when moments later, Van Ponder arrives at the meeting. Unknown to the council, aliens have assumed the form of Van Ponder to infiltrate the project. Later, alone in Hotchkiss' office, Van Ponder splits into two separate replicas of the scientist to extend his ability to impede Sigma. Back at the research center, David asks Van Ponder to reconsider Sybil's inclusion in the mission because he fears for her safety. As Van Ponder refuses, the men are interrupted by news that a large number of natural disasters have occurred worldwide. Speculation arises in the press that the disasters may be part of the U. N.'s strange warning from outer space. Van Ponder then suggests to Hotchkiss that in light of the events, they should call a halt to Sigma. After Hotchkiss reluctantly agrees, Van Ponder writes a letter to be read at the U. N. declaring the end of space exploration. David volunteers to present the letter, but at the council meeting makes an impassioned declaration that the Sigma Project will continue despite the alien intervention.

Some days after, while chatting with Van Ponder in a lab, David is disconcerted to notice the scientist has identical markings on each arm, which prompts him to investigate Van Ponder's wrecked car. Meanwhile, while meeting with astronomical engineer John Campo at the lab, Van Ponder fails to notice that his hand is being burned by a torch. While John races for a doctor, Van Ponder heals the wound. When John arrives with Dr. Howard Lazar, Van Ponder's hand is intact, and when John insists that Van Ponder was severely injured, Howard suggests he has been working too hard.

When David finds Van Ponder's demolished car, he realizes that no one could have survived the accident. David then contacts Sybil, only to learn that the Sigma launch has been moved forward and is to occur in a few hours. David hurries to the launch site, but realizes that he will be unable to speak with Sybil until after the launch. As preparations continue for blast-off, Van Ponder is unsettled to note that John is part of the crew. Later, while hurrying to his post, David is shocked to see Van Ponder replicate himself.

Following the successful launch of the satellite, Van Ponder corners John in a small control room, paralyzes him so that he cannot escape, and then reveals that he is an alien. He explains that the warning from space came from powerful beings with the ability to transform energy into matter and back again. Van Ponder offers to transform John if he will help him, but when John adamantly refuses, Van Ponder kills him.

After Sybil enters the control room and finds them, Van Ponder explains that John did not survive the ship's rapid acceleration process. While Van Ponder arranges a funeral service for John, David tells Sybil that Van Ponder is an alien, but Sybil refuses to believe him. Later, when David asks Howard about John's death, the doctor asserts that John was completely healthy. After David tells Howard that Van Ponder murdered John because he uncovered something Van Ponder was trying to conceal, Howard agrees to examine Van Ponder. Before meeting with Howard, Van Ponder creates a heart for himself, then is startled by his sudden surge of emotion for Sybil. While Sybil meets David to report Van Ponder's unusual behavior, Van Ponder murders Howard, then announces to the crew that he suspects David of having killed John. Just before his arrest, David, unaware of Howard's death, pleads with Sybil to seek protection with the doctor.

Going in search of Howard, Sybil spots Van Ponder and takes refuge from him in the solar radiation room. Van Ponder follows her, but when he hears an announcement that David has escaped his guards, Van Ponder replicates himself in front of Sybil. While one replica goes after David, the other attempts to seduce Sybil. As the satellite nears the space barrier, the pilots are confused by Van Ponder's order to head toward it. David confronts one of the Van Ponder replicas and wounds him with a gunshot. After a fierce brawl, David finally shoots Van Ponder to death, after which the replica with Sybil also collapses and dies. David then orders the satellite to detonate a radiation blast which should catapult them through the barrier. David rescues Sybil from the radiation room just before the blast.

David's plan succeeds and the Sigma satellite reports to Earth control, "We are passing through Andromeda at the speed of light. We've made it. The whole universe is our new frontier!"

####War of the Worlds 2: The Next Wave####
####Wavelength (1983 film)####

Bobby Sinclaire (Robert Carradine), a failing Californian musician, meets telepathic Iris Longacre (Cherie Currie) in a bar and they begin a relationship. At Sinclaire's apartment, Longacre begins to hear things others cannot. The young couple discover the voices are from a childlike race of aliens being held by the U.S. government after their UFO crashed. The government plans to use the trio of aliens for experimentation and dissection  in a supposedly abandoned underground bunker located near Sinclaire's apartment. The couple decides to liberate the aliens and help them return them to their mothership.

####Wellwood (film)####
####Wetware (film)####
####When Worlds Collide (1951 film)####

In the prologue, quotes from the Book of Genesis are shown and narrated, describing God's decision to wipe out humanity.

Pilot David Randall flies top-secret photographs from South African astronomer Dr. Emery Bronson to Dr. Cole Hendron in the United States. Hendron, with the assistance of his daughter Joyce, confirms their worst fears: Bronson has discovered that a rogue star named Bellus, accompanied by an Earth-sized planet named Zyra, is on a collision course with Earth.

Hendron warns the United Nations that the end of the world is little more than eight months away, with a close pass first by Zyra, before Bellus destroys the Earth nineteen days later. He pleads for the construction of "arks" to transport a lucky few to Zyra in the faint hope that humanity can be saved from extinction. With other scientists scoffing at his claims, his proposal is rejected.

Two wealthy humanitarians arrange for a start to construction and a lease on a former Army proving ground to build an ark. To finance the rest, Hendron meets wheelchair-using business magnate Sidney Stanton. Stanton demands the right to select the passengers in exchange for his money, but Hendron insists that he is not qualified to make those choices; all he can buy is a seat on the ark. Stanton capitulates. Groups in other nations start building their own spaceships.

Joyce tells her father she is attracted to Randall, so he finds an excuse to keep him around, much to the annoyance of her boyfriend, medical doctor Tony Drake. As Bellus nears, martial law is declared and residents in coastal regions are evacuated inland.

Zyra makes a close approach first, causing massive earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and tsunamis that wreak havoc around the world. Dr. Bronson is killed by a falling crane. Afterward, Drake and Randall travel by helicopter to drop off supplies to people in distress in the surrounding area. When Randall gets off to rescue a little boy stranded on a rooftop in a flooded area, Drake flies away, but reconsiders and returns.

As the day of doom approaches, the passengers are selected by lottery, though Hendron reserves seats for himself, Stanton, Joyce, Drake, pilot Dr. George Frey, and Randall, for his daughter's sake. He also includes the young boy who was rescued, for a total of 45 passengers. Randall, feeling he lacks any needed skills, rejects his guaranteed seat and instead pretends to draw a lottery number, but Hendron knows better. For Joyce's sake, Drake later tells Randall that Frey has a "heart condition" that may kill him during liftoff, convincing Randall he is needed as  co-pilot.

The cynical Stanton fears what the desperate lottery losers will do, so he stockpiles weapons. When a young man turns in his winning number because his sweetheart was not selected, FerrissndStanton's longsuffering assistantsndclaims it at gunpoint, but is shot dead by Stanton. Shortly before liftoff, many of the lottery losers riot, seizing Stanton's weapons to try to force their way aboard. Hendron  initiates the launch prematurely while he and Stanton are still outside in order to conserve fuel and raise the chance of a successful landing. With an effort born of ultimate desperation, Stanton stands up and walks in a futile attempt to board the departing spaceship.

The crew are rendered unconscious by the g-force of acceleration, and do not witness Earth's collision with Bellus. When Randall comes to and sees Dr. Frey already awake and piloting the ship, he realizes he has been deceived.

After the spaceship enters Zyra's atmosphere, the fuel runs out. Randall takes control and glides it to a safe landing. Zyra turns out to be habitable. Randall and Joyce walk hand-in-hand down the ramp with their fellow survivors as a new day dawns. In the background is an artificial structure.

####The Wind is Watching####
####The Wisdom Tree####
####World Without End (film)####
In March 1957, commander Dr. Eldon Galbraithe, engineer Henry Jaffe, radioman Herbert Ellis and scientist John Borden, are returning to Earth from the first spaceflight, a reconnaissance trip around Mars. Suddenly, their spaceship is somehow accelerated to incredible velocities, and they are knocked unconscious. Their ship crash lands on a snow-covered mountain. When they venture out, they discover that they have become victims of time dilation and are now in the future.
File:Baseline Drive-in Ad - 14 March 1956, Highland, CA.jpg|left|thumb|140px|Drive-in advertisement from 1956 for "World Without End" and co-feature, "Indestructible Man".
They theorize, from seeing time-worn gravestones and after their ship's instruments register heightened residual radiation, that a devastating atomic war had broken out in 2188, and that they are at least 200 years past that date. (They later learn that the year is 2508). Jaffe is particularly hard hit, as he realizes that his wife and children have long since died.

After surviving an ambush by giant, mutant spiders, they are attacked by one of the two remnants of human society. The "mutates" (as the astronauts label them) are violent, primitive surface dwellers. They have mutated due to generations of exposure to heightened radioactivity. (However, the background radiation has decreased to tolerable levels, and the men later learn that normal humans are often born to the mutates. These, however, are enslaved.)

Seeking shelter from the attacking mutates in a cave, the four men discover the entrance to an underground city, whose residents are the descendants of those who fled there from the atomic war. These people live in a high-tech, sophisticated culture. They are a peaceful group led by Timmek, the president of the ruling council. Underground, the men have grown less virile, and there are fewer and fewer children born each generation. In contrast, the women remain physically vital (and ready for romance). Elain, admires a shirtless Herbert Ellis, commenting that the astronauts are "more muscular than our men". Deena, rescued from the surface as a child, falls in love with Ellis.

The astronauts try to persuade the underground people to arm themselves and reclaim the surface, but they are content with their comfortable existence.

When Timmek's daughter Garnet shows she is attracted to John Borden, Mories, an already hostile member of the council, becomes jealous. He retrieves the astronauts' confiscated pistols, but has to kill a man when he is caught in the act. Mories plants the guns in the astronauts' quarters. Finding the weapons, Timmek orders the astronauts expelled, but Deena testifies that she saw Mories hide the guns. Mories flees to the surface, where he is killed by mutates.

With Timmek now cooperative, the astronauts manufacture a bazooka and head back to the surface. Fleeing the deadly bazooka fire, the mutates take shelter in caves. Borden offers to fight their chief, Naga, in single combat for leadership of the mutates after Naga threatens to slaughter the unmutated slaves. Borden slays Naga and orders the remaining deformed mutates to leave. The astronauts then establish a thriving settlement, including members of both groups.

####The World, the Flesh and the Devil (1959 film)####
Black mine inspector Ralph Burton becomes trapped in a cave-in at a Pennsylvania coal mine. He can hear rescuers digging towards him, but after five days they slow down and then stop completely, along with the drainage pumps keeping the shaft from flooding. Ralph frantically digs his own way out, but upon emerging from the mine, he finds a world devoid of any people, living or dead. Discarded newspapers provide an explanation: one proclaims "UN Retaliates For Use Of Atomic Poison", another that "Millions Flee From Cities! End Of The World". Ralph later plays tapes at a radio station and learns that an unknown country had dispersed large quantities of radioactive sodium isotopes into the atmosphere. The resulting lethal dust cloud spread around the world, killing every human who came into contact with it over a five-day period before the isotopes decayed into a harmless state.

Ralph travels to New York City in search of survivors, but in vain. He busies himself restoring power to a building where he takes up residence, and to stave off loneliness he takes in a pair of mannequins. Just as the solitude starts to become intolerable, he finally encounters a second survivor: Sarah Crandall, a white woman in her early twenties. Sarah had been living in the city and surreptitiously observing Ralph for some time, but lacked the courage to reveal herself earlier. The two become fast friends, but Ralph grows distant when it becomes clear that Sarah is developing stronger feelings for him. Despite living in a post-apocalyptic world, he cannot overcome the inhibitions instilled in him in a racially-segregated American society.

Ralph regularly broadcasts on the radio in the hope of contacting other survivors, and eventually receives a transmission in French, confirming there are other living people beyond New York. One day, ill white man Benson Thacker arrives by boat. Ralph and Sarah nurse him back to health, but once he recovers, Ben sets his sights on Sarah and sees Ralph as a rival. Ralph is torn by conflicting emotions. He avoids Sarah as much as possible, to give Ben every opportunity to win her affections, but cannot quite bring himself to leave the city.

Ben finally grows tired of the whole situation, realizing he stands little chance with Sarah as long as Ralph remains nearby. He warns Ralph that the next time he sees him, he will try to kill him. The two armed men hunt each other through the empty streets. Finally, Ralph passes by the United Nations headquarters, climbs the steps in Ralph Bunche Park, and reads the inscription "They shall beat their swords into plowshares. And their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift up sword against nation. Neither shall they learn war any more", from the Book of Isaiah. He throws down his rifle and goes unarmed to confront Ben, who in turn finds himself unable to shoot his foe. Defeated, he starts walking away. Sarah appears. When Ralph starts to turn away from her, she makes him take her hand; then she calls to Ben and gives him her other hand. Together, the three walk down the street to build a new future together. The film ends not with "The End", but with "The Beginning".

####A Wrinkle in Time (2003 film)####
Image:Awrinkleintimetv.jpg|thumb|198px|left|From left: David Dorfman as Charles Wallace Murry, Katie Stuart as Meg Murry and Gregory Smith as Calvin O'Keefe on the planet Uriel

Meg Murry (Katie Stuart) is having a difficult time. Her father, astrophysicist Dr. Jack Murry (Chris Potter), has mysteriously disappeared. Her youngest brother, Charles Wallace (David Dorfman), a genius, is teased and belittled and thought to be stupid because he does not talk to anyone but family. Meg does not get along with her peers, teachers, her 10-year-old twin brothers (Munro Chambers, Thomas Chambers), or even with herself.

Into this unhappy situation comes a stranger, the mysterious, weirdly dressed Mrs. Whatsit (Alfre Woodard), and her friends Mrs. Who (Alison Elliott) and Mrs. Which (Kate Nelligan). They take Meg, Charles Wallace, and their new friend Calvin O'Keefe (Gregory Smith) via "tesseract" to other planets, preparing the children for a mission to rescue Dr. Murry from the malevolent "IT" on the planet Camazotz. Along the way they ride on the back of a beautiful winged creature (the transformed Mrs. Whatsit), learn about the shadow of tangible evil known as the Black Thing, and visit the Happy Medium (Seán Cullen).

Once they reach Camazotz, however, it is up to Meg, Calvin, and Charles Wallace to face the dangers of CENTRAL Central Intelligence, aided only by each other and a pair of Mrs. Who's glasses. They do find and rescue Dr. Murry, but Charles Wallace is seduced away from his family by IT's agent, the Man with Red Eyes (Kyle Secor), and thus comes under the control of IT. Dr. Murry manages to tesser himself, Meg and Calvin, away from Camazotz, but Charles Wallace is left behind, trapped in the mind of IT. Angry with her father, Calvin and herself for leaving Charles Wallace behind, Meg is cared for by the sightless and motherly Aunt Beast (Ellen Dubin) on the planet Ixchel and argues with Mrs. Which about returning to rescue her brother. Returning alone to Camazotz, Meg must find a quality in herself—love—to free Charles Wallace, and possibly free the planet Camazotz as well.

####X-Men: Apocalypse####

In 3600 BC, the aged but powerful mutant En Sabah Nur rules ancient Egypt. Following a ceremony in which his consciousness is transferred into another man's body in order to gain his healing factor, he and his four followers are ambushed. In the process his followers are killed and he is entombed alive.

In 1983, Alex Summers takes his brother Scott to Professor Charles Xavier's educational institute, hoping that Xavier and Hank McCoy will teach him to control his mutation for shooting optic beams. Scott meets the telepathic and telekinetic Jean Grey, and the two develop an attraction.

En Sabah Nur is awakened by a group of worshippers. He befriends orphan Ororo Munroe and learns about humanity. Deciding that humanity has lost its way, he plans to remake the world. Munroe becomes his follower after he enhances her power.

In East Berlin, shape-shifting mutant Raven discovers Kurt Wagner, a mutant who can teleport. Raven requests black marketeer Caliban to transport Kurt to America. En Sabah Nur recruits Psylocke and Angel and enhances both of their powers.

In Communist Poland, Erik Lehnsherr lives happily with his wife and daughter. During the worldwide disturbances caused by En Sabah Nur, Erik uses his powers to save a coworker during an earthquake, prompting the militia to capture him. They hold his daughter hostage in the forest in exchange for him to turn himself in. As tensions rise, Erik's daughter begins to display mutant powers (by mentally calling in wild animals from all over the forest), and the militia accidentally kill his wife and daughter in the ensuing confusion. In despair, Erik kills the entire militia.

En Sabah Nur takes Erik to Auschwitz and shows him the true extent of his powers. Erik destroys the camp and joins En Sabah Nur. When Xavier contacts Erik, En Sabah Nur remotely accesses Cerebro, the device Xavier uses to locate mutants, and forces Xavier to make the global superpowers launch their entire nuclear arsenals into space to prevent interference with En Sabah Nur's plan. He and his Four Horsemen arrive at the mansion and kidnap Xavier. Attempting to stop them, Alex causes an explosion that destroys the mansion. Peter Maximoff arrives and uses his super-speed to evacuate everyone except Alex, who dies in the explosion. Colonel William Stryker's forces capture Hank, Raven, Peter, and Moira, and take them for interrogation. Scott, Jean, and Kurt follow covertly and liberate their comrades using Stryker's experiment Weapon X (Wolverine), whose memories Jean partially restores.

Erik uses his powers to alter the Earth's magnetic field, causing destruction across the planet. En Sabah Nur plans to transfer his consciousness into Xavier's body to gain his psychic powers. Xavier sends a telepathic distress call to Jean and the others, who travel to Cairo to battle En Sabah Nur and his mutants. They rescue Xavier and flee in a plane. When Angel and Psylocke attack the plane, Nightcrawler teleports his friends away. Psylocke jumps to safety, but Angel is killed in the plane crash.

Erik and Ororo turn on En Sabah Nur and, with Scott's help, keep him occupied physically while Xavier fights him telepathically in the astral plane. Xavier begs Jean to unleash the full strength of her abilities, and she incinerates En Sabah Nur. Psylocke escapes. Xavier and Moira rekindle their relationship. Erik and Jean help reconstruct the school, but Erik refuses Xavier's offer to stay and help teach. Peter decides not to tell Erik yet that he is Erik's son. Using confiscated Sentinels, Hank and Raven train the new X-Men recruits: Scott, Jean, Ororo, Kurt, and Peter.

In a post-credits scene, men in black suits visit the Weapon X facility to retrieve an X-ray and a blood sample marked "Weapon X", on behalf of the Essex Corporation.

####The Yesterday Machine####
College drum majorette Margie De Mar (Linda Jenkins) twirls her baton as boyfriend Howie Ellison (Jay Ramsey), a cheerleader, tries unsuccessfully to repair his broken-down car so that they can get to a football game on time. As they walk to a farmhouse for help, they stumble upon two American Civil War Confederate soldiers. Confused and frightened, they run away, but Howie is shot. He stumbles back to the car, collapses, and is taken to hospital by a passing motorist. Margie simply disappears.

Newspaper reporter Jim Crandell (Britton) is covering the shooting. At the hospital, Dr. Wilson D. Blake (Charles Young) tells him that Howie had been struck by a minié ball fired from a Civil War-era rifled musket.

Police Lt. Partane (Holt) and Det. Lasky (Robert Kelly), who are investigating, go to the nightclub where Margie's sister Sandy (Pellegrino) is singing. Partane informs her that Margie has gone missing. Sandy asks Jim to take her to the site where Margie vanished. They find nothing.

Next morning, Jim discusses the case with Partane. He tells Jim that at the end of World War II his army unit had liberated an unusual concentration camp, in which the prisoners were all young and well-fed. A nearby bombed-out building contained an electronic machine that couldn't be identified. Partane speculates that the machine had been a time travel device. The commandant of the camp, physicist Ernst Von Hauser (Herman), was never captured.

Sandy and Jim return to where Margie disappeared. Still not finding anything, they walk through an unexpected, unexplained, invisible something in a field and find themselves in 1789. Then, suddenly, they're beneath the farmhouse, in Von Hauser's lab, teleported there by a time machine which operates on the principle of "super spectronic relativity," a discovery of Von Hauser's in which light is made to travel faster than the speed of light as calculated by Albert Einstein. His plan is to bring Hitler back from wartime Germany to the present-day US so that the Führer - who will become immortal during teleportation - can forever rule the world. Von Hauser is also holding Margie captive.

Manfred, one of Von Hauser's two Nazi "assistants," takes Sandy to Margie's cell and locks her in. Jim is locked up, too. Manfred drags Margie to the lab. Didiyama (Olga Powell), a slave from ancient Egypt, who now serves Von Hauser, brings Jim and Sandy food. But when Manfred returns and ominously approaches Sandy in the cell, Didiyama stabs him in the back. Sadly, he strangles her to death before he dies. Sandy uses his keys to free Jim from his cell. Jim picks up Manfred's pistol.

Sandy and Jim rush to the lab., where they find Von Hauser about to teleport Margie into the future - something he's never done before and isn't sure will work. Wolf, the other Nazi thug, fires a shot at Jim but misses. Jim shoots Wolf, who collapses. Jim forces Von Hauser at gunpoint to bring Margie back. She returns unhurt. But as Sandy, Margie and Jim try to escape, the not-quite-dead Wolf gets off another shot. He misses again; Jim doesn't. Jim then put several rounds into the time machine's control panel. disabling it.

By this time, Partane and Lasky are outside the farmhouse. Jim, Sandy and Margie emerge from a false grave in a cemetery. Jim tells Partane that it leads to the lab. Partane and Lasky go down, where they find Von Hauser trying to teleport himself in the still-working time machine. Von Hauser shoots at him, but Partane returns fire, apparently killing him. Von Hauser vanishes before their eyes, going somewhere and someplace else in time.

Partane destroys the time machine, thus ending the Nazi threat.

####Yesterday Was a Lie####
####Zarkorr! The Invader####
Intelligent aliens who have been studying Earth for centuries decide to challenge mankind by sending in a 185-foot, laser-eyed monster called "Zarkorr" to wreak city-crushing havoc. Only one incredibly average young man, postal worker Tommy Ward (Rhys Pugh), can find the beast's weakness and save the planet with the help of a 6-inch-tall pixie (Torie Lynch), who says she is "a mental image projected into his brain" by the aliens. She explains that Zarkorr cannot be destroyed by weapons, but that the key to the monster's destruction lies within the monster itself. Tommy, chosen as an average human, is the one destined to fight Zarkorr, who is programmed to kill him. Tommy asks scientist Dr. Stephanie Martin (De'Prise Grossman) for advice about his mission, but everyone thinks he is crazy. He takes the scientist hostage, but manages to explain his predicament to one of the policemen George Ray (Mark Hamilton), who believes him and helps him escape. Dr. Martin agrees to help him. Using computers belonging to a friend of hers, they establish that the monster, which is destroying city after city in the style of Godzilla, neither sleeps nor breathes. Going to the place where the monster first appeared, they come into possession of a strange metallic capsule that fell out of the sky at the time the monster arrived. It is believed to be unopenable, but it opens by itself for Tommy as he touches it. He uses the top of the capsule as a shield, reflecting Zarkorr's laser rays back at him, and the monster dissolves into a small glowing sphere flying into space. Tommy is taken to a hospital to recover; a TV reporter congratulates him for saving the world, and he jokes he might run for president.

####Zenon: Girl of the 21st Century (film)####
####Zombies of the Stratosphere####
Larry Martin, a leader in the Inter-Planetary Patrol, detects a rocketship coming to Earth. He takes to the air in his jet-powered flying suit and helmet to investigate and discovers Martian invaders, led by Marex. With Mars now orbiting too far away from the Sun, its ecology has been dying. The Martian invaders want to swap the orbital positions of Earth and Mars so that Mars will be closer to the Sun. They plan on achieving this by using hydrogen bomb plans stolen from Earth scientists to cause the two planets' orbits to swap positions. They will do so using specifically placed atomic explosions on both worlds. Martin also learns the Martians have Earth accomplices, the traitorous Dr. Harding and two gangsters, Roth and Shane, who bedevil him and his associates, Sue Davis and Bob Wilson.

The Martians set up a base in a cave that can only be reached from underwater, where they begin constructing their H bomb. They make a remotely-controlled robot to supplement their human operatives in acquiring the necessary supplies and funds to complete the project. Eventually, Larry and his comrades gain the upper hand: Marex kills Harding when he attempts to surrender. Roth and Shane are killed when Larry turns the robot against them, while the Martians are brought down in flames in their rocketship after a furious stratosphere raygun battle with Larry in his spaceship. Marex's Martian aide, Narab,  survives the crash and tells Larry where to find the underwater cave with the activated H-bomb. Larry arrives just in time to defuse the bomb, seconds before it would have exploded.

####3 Minutes####
The film centers on the unnamed main character (Harry Shum) receiving a handgun from an old man (Thaine Allison Jr.) and being told he has to complete an unspecified task within three minutes. Shum's character then rushes into a storage yard in pursuit of "Steve" (Stephen Boss), who evades Shum's gunshots and hides. Steve finds a dead body (Nicholas Acosta) holding a lightsaber, and uses the weapon to disarm Shum, who draws his own lightsaber. After a short battle, Shum decapitates Steve and runs back to the old man, where he is told that his time was three minutes, eighteen seconds. Shum panics and runs away. A fourth unnamed character (Katrina Law) comes forward and receives a pistol from the old man who repeats his "three minutes" instruction. Law's character then leaves the garage, presumably in pursuit of Shum.

The project is part two of a projected trilogy of short films including a prequel and sequel.  The film was originally designed as a vehicle to showcase a wider range of acting skills for the two leads, Harry Shum Jr. and Stephen "tWitch" Boss, especially outside of the singing and dancing sphere. "3 Minutes" has received coverage from the official Star Wars site,

####The 5th Wave (film)####

Ohio high-schooler Cassie Sullivan, armed with an M4 carbine, emerges from the woods to raid an abandoned gas station. Upon entering, she hears a voice calling for help. She finds a wounded man, he points a gun at her, then each of the two asks the other to put one’s own weapon down. When he pulls his other hand out from under his jacket, she mistakes the metallic glint of a Christian cross for that of a gun, so she kills him: the screen then cuts to black, and her backstory begins.

A colossal alien spaceship is circling Earth, guided by extraterrestrial life referred to as "The Others". Ten days later, The Others unleash their 1st Wave, an electromagnetic pulse that disables all electrical power and communications worldwide, and shuts off the engines of moving vehicles, including planes in mid-flight. The 2nd Wave has The Others manipulate<!--- the method is not explained in the film, but in the novel --> the planet's geology and fault lines, causing earthquakes and megatsunamis that destroy coastal cities and islands, including Hallandale Beach, London, Bangkok and New York City. In Ohio, Lake Erie floods, but Cassie and her younger brother Sam are able to escape by climbing a tree. For the 3rd Wave, The Others modify a strain of avian influenza and spread it across the planet via birds. The population is decimated, with Cassie's mother one of the victims. In the 4th wave, The Others possess common humans and start killing other humans.

Cassie, Sam and their father find a summer camp in use as a refuge in the woods with roughly 300 survivors. A few days later, an Army unit with working vehicles rolls into the camp. The unit's commander, Colonel Vosch, claims there is an imminent threat of a 5th Wave and they will take the children to safety at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, intending to bring the buses back to retrieve the adults. Cassie is separated from Sam, and witnesses the Army massacring all the adults, her father included. Cassie makes her way toward the base, but is shot in the leg by a sniper and passes out. About a week later, she wakes up in the farmhouse of a young man named Evan Walker, who saved her. Cassie leaves towards the base with Evan, but learns that he is an Other, sent years ago as a sleeper agent and merged his consciousness into a human host. The sleepers roam their designated zones, killing human survivors. Evan admits his humanity was reactivated when he saw her, disagrees with the invasion and lets her leave. He warns that Colonel Vosch and the military are possessed by the consciousness of individual Others.

At the base, the military have used deception and technology to convince the rescued children that the humans outside the base have been possessed. They provide military training to the children, forming them into squads to go on kill missions outside the base. Sam has been placed into a squad led by Ben, a boy Cassie had a crush on, along with Ringer, a tough teenage girl, Dumbo, who survived the 2nd wave, and Teacup. While out on a kill mission, Ringer removes her military implant, causing her to register as an Other-possessed human on the squad's scopes. The squad deduces the plan to have them kill real unpossessed humans, making them the 5th Wave. Ben sends his squad into the woods and returns to base, claiming his squad was killed, for the purpose of retrieving Sam, who was left behind. Ben confronts Colonel Vosch about child warriors being the 5th Wave and Cassie kills Sergeant Reznik during her one-on-one indoctrination spiel. Ben and Cassie find each other and leave to find Sam. Evan sets off numerous bombs and advises them to quickly find Sam before the destruction of the entire facility. Colonel Vosch and the surviving military Others evacuate with the human children by military aircraft. Cassie, Ben and Sam escape, with help from Ringer, just as Evan completes the destruction of the base. Ben's squad is reunited, and Cassie ponders the strength of hope as humanity's driving force for survival.

####The 6th Day####
In the near future, animal cloning has become routine, but human cloning is prohibited by so-called "Sixth Day" laws.

Charter pilot Adam Gibson is hired for a snowboarding excursion by Michael Drucker, billionaire owner of cloning corporation Replacement Technologies, who requires him to undergo a seemingly routine drug test. When Adam’s wife informs him that their daughter’s dog has died, he reluctantly visits one of Drucker’s “RePet” cloning stores, while his partner Hank poses as Adam and flies Drucker to the mountains, where they are killed by an assassin, Tripp.

Buying a life-size animatronic “SimPal” doll for his daughter instead, Adam returns home to discover a clone of himself with his family. Before he can intervene, Adam is abducted by Marshall, Drucker’s head of security, and his agents Talia, Vincent, and Wiley. Adam escapes, killing Talia and Wiley, and goes to the police but is believed to be an escaped mental patient.

Drucker, somehow alive, assures reporters that he does not intend to have the Sixth Day laws repealed. However, he and his chief scientist, Dr. Griffin Weir, have already perfected illegal human cloning, and revive clones of Talia and Wiley. Adam breaks out of the police station and is forced to kill Wiley again, before finding Hank at his apartment, still alive. He brings Hank to his house and contemplates killing his clone, but Marshall and Talia arrive, forcing Adam to pose as his clone to send them away.

Returning to his apartment, Hank is again killed by Tripp, who is shot by Adam. A dying Tripp reveals he is an anti-cloning extremist who assassinated Drucker, who was subsequently cloned along with Hank. Marshall and Talia arrive, but Adam escapes in their vehicle after shooting off Talia’s fingers, taking her thumb to bypass the car’s biometric lock. Adam uses the thumb to sneak into Replacement Technologies and confronts Dr. Weir, whose pursuit of cloning is driven by his wife Katherine’s liver cancer; she reveals to her husband that she knows she is the latest in a series of clones he has made in an attempt to cure her.

Weir explains that the blood and vision tests Adam underwent scanned his DNA and memories — captured as a “syncording” — in the event he needed to be cloned. He reveals Drucker was secretly cloned after dying years earlier to maintain control of his fortune, as clones have no legal rights. Believing both Adam and Hank were killed alongside Drucker, Weir cloned them to return to their lives and cover up Drucker’s murder and second cloning. Weir gives Adam the syncording proving Drucker has been cloned, warning that he may go after Adam’s clone and family.

Adam races to Clara’s school recital, where Talia and Vincent have already abducted his wife and daughter. Coming face-to-face with his own clone, Adam reveals their situation, and agrees to deliver the incriminating syncording to Drucker in exchange for his family. Weir confronts Drucker, who engineered the clones, including Katherine, with shortened lifespans as an insurance policy against betrayal. Drucker kills Weir, promising to resurrect him and Katherine as clones.

Sending a decoy helicopter to be destroyed, Adam lands on Drucker’s helipad and wreaks havoc until he is captured. Drucker reveals that Adam is actually the clone, proven by a marking inside his eyelid, but realizes the real Adam has also infiltrated the building. While the original Adam rescues his family, his clone fights off Drucker’s agents. They are finally killed, and a mortally wounded Drucker clones himself again, but the malfunctioning equipment creates a deformed, incomplete body. Adam and his clone escape in the helicopter with his family, destroying the facility and all its syncordings as Drucker falls to his death.

The real Adam arranges for his clone, who is discovered to not have a shortened lifespan like the other clones, to start a new life in Argentina, running a satellite office of their charter business. As a parting gift, the clone gives the family Hank's RePet cat, and the real Adam gives his clone a flying send-off.

####24 Hours to Live####
In South Africa, a convoy of Interpol agents led by Lin (Xu Qing) transports a prisoner, Keith.  At a checkpoint, they are ambushed.  Most of the agents are killed, but Lin escapes with Keith.

Travis Conrad (Ethan Hawke), a hitman, fishes with his father in law, Frank (Rutger Hauer).  They scatter ashes in the ocean, noting the one year anniversary of the deaths they commemorate.  After Frank falls asleep, Travis goes to a bar to get cocaine.  He assaults two thugs following him who tell him Jim wants to see him.  Jim offers Travis $1 million per day to clean up the botched assassination attempt on Keith and Lin.  Though he initially refuses, claiming he's retired, the money convinces him.  He travels to Hong Kong and meets Lin's son, from whom he steals his cell phone and determines Lin's location.  He meets her at the airport and seduces her.  The next morning, he gets Keith's location from her phone but chooses not to kill her; she realizes he is an agent and kills him.

Travis' agency, Red Mountain, brings him back to life using an experimental procedure.  Once he tells them Keith's location, Jim, his friend and former fellow Marine, informs him that they just revived him to get the location, and the doctor plans to kill him upon her return.  Travis obtains a scalpel and cuts his restraints; when the doctor returns he kills a guard and learns from her that with a timer on his wrist, he has 24 hours to live.  He escapes with her as a hostage and pursues Lin, telling her not to make him regret not killing her.

Keith testifies against Red Mountain, revealing they experimented on over 70 civilians to develop the resurrection procedure and forced him to dispose of the bodies.  Just after he testifies, Jim snipes several guards from a clocktower and Red Mountain assaults the building.  Lin and Keith escape when Travis arrives to help, knowing Red Mountain betrayed him.  During the chase, Keith is killed, but he managed to get the camera's memory card before they left.  Travis entrusts the card to Lin, but Jim calls to inform them that they have taken her son in exchange for the card.  Travis decides to help her retrieve him and collects guns and explosives from a safe house.

They travel to the village where the civilians Red Mountain experimented on lived and enlist their help in avenging them.  Travis knows prisoner transport protocol; they corner and ambush the convoy and get the boy back.  Travis tells Lin to get the testimony to the authorities and decides to spend his last half hour alive delaying Red Mountain from pursuing her.  He forces a surviving Red Mountain agent to drive him to base claiming he is the prisoner; when he arrives he kills several guards and drives the car into the building.  He detonates the car and assaults the office where Jim and the Red Mountain leader, Wetzler, are holed up.  After killing all the agents in the room, Wetzler tries to goad Travis into killing Jim, who knew that Wetzler ordered his wife and son killed in an attempt to keep him from quitting the company.  Though angered, Travis feels remorse for all the killing he's done and lets Jim live.  Jim then approaches Wetzler to kill him as police arrive.  Though they warn him not to shoot, he shoots Wetzler and is killed himself.

Travis dies and has a vision of his family on a beach.  He beckons for his son, but he runs away.  Travis begins to hear the doctor's voice and awakes in the lab where he was first resurrected.

####40 Days and Nights####
####2012 (film)####

In 2009, American geologist Adrian Helmsley visits astrophysicist Satnam Tsurutani in East India and learns that a new type of neutrino from a solar flare is heating the Earth's core. Returning to Washington, D.C., Adrian alerts White House Chief of Staff Carl Anheuser and President Thomas Wilson.

In 2010, over forty-six nations begin building nine arks in the Himalayas in Tibet and storing artifacts in secure locations. Nima, a Buddhist monk, is evacuated with his grandparents, and his brother Tenzin joins the ark project. Additional funding is secretly raised by selling tickets to the rich for €1 billion per person.

In 2012, struggling science-fiction writer Jackson Curtis is a chauffeur in Los Angeles for Russian billionaire Yuri Karpov. Jackson's ex-wife Kate and their children, Noah and Lilly, live with Kate's boyfriend, plastic surgeon and amateur pilot Gordon Silberman. Jackson takes Noah and Lilly camping in Yellowstone National Park. When they find the Yellowstone Lake dried and fenced off by the United States Army, they are caught and brought to Adrian. They later meet conspiracy theorist and radio personality Charlie Frost, who tells Jackson of Charles Hapgood's theory that polar shift and the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar predict a 2012 phenomenon and the worldwide catastrophes, and that the world's governments silence anyone attempting to warn the public about them. Jackson heeds Charlie's warning after the swift departure of Yuri's sons Alec and Oleg and then rents a Cessna 340A to rescue his family. As the disaster fractures the San Andreas Fault, Jackson and his family reach the Santa Monica Airport and get the plane airborne just before the Pacific Coast slides into the ocean. The group flies to Yellowstone and retrieve Charlie's map of the arks' location. The Yellowstone Caldera erupts, with Charlie staying behind to finish his broadcast; he is killed by debris. Realizing they need a larger plane, the group lands at McCarran International Airport south of Downtown Las Vegas to search for one.

Adrian, Carl, and First Daughter Laura fly to the arks, while President Wilson remains in the White House to address the nation. Jackson finds the Karpovs, Yuri's girlfriend Tamara, and their pilot Sasha. Sasha and Gordon fly them out in an Antonov An-500 as the volcanic ashes from the Caldera envelops the Las Vegas Valley. Billions die in disasters worldwide, including President Wilson. With the presidential line of succession gone following the Vice President's death, Carl appoints himself acting commander-in-chief.

Upon reaching the Himalayas, the plane's engines malfunction. The party uses a Bentley Flying Spur stored in the hold to escape, while Sasha crash-lands the jet on a glacier which then slides off a cliff, killing him. The survivors are spotted by Chinese Air Force helicopters and they take the Karpovs to the arks, but everyone else is abandoned including Tamara. Nima takes them to the arks with his family. With Tenzin's help, they stowaway to Ark 4.

With a megatsunami approaching, Carl orders the loading gates closed though most people have not boarded. Adrian persuades the captain and the other surviving world leaders to allow passengers aboard the arks, but Yuri falls to his death as he pushes his sons into Ark 4. The gate closes after survivors are on board, injuring Tenzin and crushing Gordon. Tenzin's impact driver used to access the ship gets lodged in the gate mechanism, preventing it from closing completely and disabling the ship's engines. As the tsunami strikes, the back of the ark starts flooding and it is set adrift, heading for Mount Everest. Adrian rushes to clear the gears, but watertight doors close, trapping the stowaways and drowning Tamara. Noah and Jackson dislodge the tool. The crew regains control of the ark, while Jackson and Noah make it back safely.

Twenty-seven days later, the waters are receding. The arks approach the Cape of Good Hope, where the Drakensberg Mountains are the highest mountain range on Earth. Adrian and Laura begin a relationship, while Jackson and Kate reconcile their marriage.

####A.P.E.X.####
In 2073, Nicholas Sinclair is a scientist on a time travel project. An accident introduces in 1973 a deadly virus that activates the project's automatic countermeasures. Attack robots are sent to the past in an effort to eliminate the virus carriers. They fail. Sinclair returns to 2073 to find the Earth in ruins, ravaged by both the virus and the robots still in countermeasure action. Sinclair returns to the project lab that is now in ruins in order to prevent the original cause of the accident.

####The A.R.K. Report####
####A.X.L.####
A-X-L is a top-secret, robotic dog created by Andric, a Craine Systems scientist, to assist and protect soldiers. The project is funded by the military. Code-named A-X-L ("Attack, eXploration, Logistics") by the scientists who created it, the robot embodies advanced next-generation artificial intelligence. After a trial goes wrong, A-X-L is discovered hiding alone and damaged in the desert by outsider and motorbike racer Miles Hill, himself alone and abandoned by Sam Fontaine after falling from his motorbike during a stunt. Miles and A-X-L connect after the robot's owner-pairing technology is activated. A-X-L goes to great lengths to help and protect his new companion. Becoming himself bonded with A-X-L, Miles teams up with the smart, resourceful Sara Reyes to protect his new best friend.

They go to a remote hideout that Sara uses as an art studio. A-X-L presents Miles with a device which takes a blood sample and completes the pairing process. Sam arrives and confronts Sara, jealous of her relationship with Miles. A-X-L attacks Sam and Miles uses the situation to threaten him, telling him to leave Sara alone. Sara is angry that Miles has inflamed an already bad situation, but says she will not leave Miles. Leaving A-X-L, they go back to Miles' home and tell his father, Chuck, about the robot. Chuck advises them to return it to its owners. Meanwhile, Sam returns with his crew and burns A-X-L with a flamethrower. Sara sees the live recording on her phone and she and Miles take off to save him. They are too late, but A-X-L gives them a location to get him repaired. Meanwhile, a man sent by Andric shows up at Chuck's house and demands to know the location of the device that controls A-X-L. Chuck grows suspicious and outmaneuvers the man, demanding answers to his own questions. The man reveals he is looking for A-X-L.

Miles and Sara take A-X-L to a garage, where the robot begins repairing itself. Andric sees a log of its location and sends a team to retrieve it. The agents arrive and try to retrieve the robot while it is still repairing. The repairs finish just in time, and A-X-L subdues the operatives. As A-X-L reboots, he recalls being burned with a flamethrower, and races off to kill Sam. Miles and Sara rush to stop him. Sam and his friends are partying when A-X-L arrives. Sam tries again to burn him with the flamethrower, but the fuel runs out. Miles and Sara arrive and convince A-X-L not to kill Sam. A swarm of drones arrives and disables A-X-L; Miles and Sara are captured and delivered to Craine Systems. Andric tries to override Miles' control of A-X-L, but fails.

When Miles refuses to reveal where the remote is, Andric programs A-X-L to attack Sara. Sara manages to convince A-X-L not to attack her, by reminding him of how she drew a feather at the hideout. Captain Webber, Andric's military superior, shows up. Andric tries to escape, but is arrested. Knowing they are surrounded, Sara allows herself to be captured. Miles and A-X-L escape, but are pursued by helicopter. They race though hilly terrain until Miles falls from his motorbike. Miles orders A-X-L to run. A-X-L obeys and tries to get as far away as possible before self-destructing, whilst uploading to the Internet all the memories he, Miles and Sara had together. Having finished, A-X-L looks at Miles' image for the last time, and says "Yo! Send it," before finishing the self-destruct sequence. Miles is subdued by the military.

Six weeks later, Andric has been imprisoned for violating national security and endangering the lives of civilians. He is visited by Webber, who informs him that A-X-L's code has resurfaced and wants to know what it is doing. Sara and Miles have gone to college with scholarships provided by the military – to buy their silence and to keep an eye on them. Sara and Miles are spending a day hanging out at the beach, studying and playing with their new puppy, when Sara hands him an envelope. Miles opens it and pulls out a note from his dad saying "This yours?". He flips the envelope upside-down and A-X-L's remote falls out into his hand. He asks Sara if he should press it. The device uploads an A-X-L app onto their phones. They realize that A-X-L has somehow survived and is trying to return to them.

####Absolute Dominion####
####The Adam Project####
In a dystopian 2050, fighter pilot Adam Reed steals a time jet to escape to 2018 to save his wife, Laura. In the process, he gets injured and crash-lands in 2022. The story then shifts to 12-year-old Adam in 2022, whose father Louis died a year previously. He is bullied at school, gets suspended for fighting in school, and is distant from his mother Ellie. When he is home alone one night, he finds the injured future Adam. The younger Adam refuses to trust the stranger, but future Adam inadvertently mentions the names of both the younger Adam and his dog, Hawking. The younger Adam soon realizes that the stranger in front of him is his future self.

Due to a safety feature preventing him from flying because of his injuries, Adam must bring along the younger Adam and use his DNA to enter his jet. They both are soon attacked by Maya Sorian, the leader of the dystopian world, and her assistant Christos, but are saved by Laura, who had faked her death and stayed off-grid in an unknown location. After surviving the attack and comparing notes, Laura and the Adams realize that after the invention of time travel by Louis Reed and his subsequent death, Sorian had monopolized the discovery. During her visit to 2018, Laura learned Sorian frequently came and advised her past self in order to secure her future wealth and power. To protect her secret, Sorian ordered Laura's death. Although Laura survived the assassination attempt, destruction of her time jet left her stranded in the past. The sudden arrival of Sorian's goons interrupts the reunion, and Laura fights off the attack long enough for the two Adams to escape to 2018.

In 2018, the Adams meet Louis Reed in an attempt to enlist his help, but their father refuses any assistance out of concern for the effect on the time stream. That night, Sorian meets and warns her past self about Adam. Meanwhile, the Adams share their common feelings about their father in a motel. The next day, they both set off to destroy the time travel machine. On arrival at Sorian Technologies, they are attacked by Sorian's soldiers, but are unexpectedly saved by Louis, who has changed his mind and agrees to guide them. Louis reveals that destroying the machine will not destroy time travel as long as Sorian has his algorithm with all the math and constraints to control the process. Meanwhile, 2050 Sorian captures the younger Adam.

Although Louis and 2050 Adam remove a memory unit with the algorithm, both Sorians arrive and threaten 2022 Adam as leverage to coerce Louis into surrendering the algorithm. 2050 Adam stalls and allows 2022 Adam to escape from Sorian by pushing her gun away, but an errant bullet damages the seal restraining the electromagnetic field, causing it to grow to limitless values. The Reeds try as much as they can to stop them, but the older Sorian threatens to kill Louis. Adam warns that her bullets are armor-piercing, but Louis remains adamant. Seeing no other way, Sorian shoots at Louis, but the path of the bullet is altered by the electromagnetic field and hits 2018 Sorian instead, killing her and wiping both Sorians out of existence.

The Reeds barely manage to escape the facility's implosion and reach home, where they reconcile by playing a game of catch before the Adams return to their respective times. In 2022, the younger Adam lives in a new timeline where he never got suspended, has let go of his anger, and gives his mother a hug via an "echo". Sometime in the future, an older and much happier Adam meets Laura during a flight training lecture where she realizes, to Adam's amusement, she has entered the wrong building on the campus. Adam offers to walk her to her building, stating that he has got time, and they depart together.

####Adrenalin: Fear the Rush####
####The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension####
####The Adventures of Pluto Nash####
In 2080, there is a colony on the Moon called Little America. Businessman, entrepreneur, retired smuggler and ex-convict, Pluto Nash buys a nightclub in an attempt to fulfill his long-time wish and also to prevent the murder of the club's previous owner and old friend, Anthony Frankowski, by mobsters Gino and his nephew, Larry. With the help of his friend Miguel and an android named Bruno, Pluto cleans it up and turns it into a very popular nightclub.

Seven years later in 2087, a young woman named Dina Lake, the daughter of a friend of Pluto's, Nicky Sticks, is stranded on the Moon and needs to earn money for transport back to Earth. Pluto gives her a job as a server. Pluto is accosted by Mogan and Kelp, henchmen of mysterious entrepreneur and businessman Rex Crater, who wants to buy the club. When Pluto refuses, the henchmen use bombs to destroy the club. Pluto, Dina, and Bruno manage to escape.

Pluto's friend Rowland, a retired police detective who also knows Pluto's mother,  learns that Rex Crater has associates linked to human cloning. While Pluto and Dina investigate further, Crater's assassins strike, but Pluto and Dina escape by hijacking a limo driven by a holographic chauffeur named James.

Their investigation further links Zoroaster Marucci to Crater. They are again attacked and chased by Crater's henchmen; they barely escape and are then rescued by Felix Laranga, a local smuggler who idolizes Pluto Nash. They infiltrate Crater's casino/hotel at Moon Beach.

Pluto finally confronts Crater, who reveals himself to be a clone of Pluto. Crater has shot both Marucci and Dr. Runa Pendankin into orbit and established his own criminal enterprise. When Mogan and Kelp arrive, Crater kills them for their incompetence. He and Pluto then fight, with Crater ultimately being thrown through a window to his death.

Sometime later, a celebration is held at the fully renovated Club Pluto with Nash as the owner once again.

####AE: Apocalypse Earth####
####Æon Flux (film)####
In 2011, a deadly pathogenic virus killed 99 percent of the Earth's population, forcing the survivors to regroup and scatter across the Earth.

Four centuries later, in 2415, the remaining five million humans inhabit Bregna, a dystopian walled futuristic city-state, which is ruled by a congress of scientists. Although Bregna is largely an idyllic place in the destroyed Earth, people routinely disappear and the population is plagued by nightmares.

A skilled warrior, named Æon Flux, is a member of the Monicans, an underground rebel organization who communicate through telepathy-enabling technology and are led by the Handler. After a mission to destroy a surveillance station, Æon comes home to find her sister Una has been mistaken for a Monican and killed. When Æon is sent on a mission to kill the government's leader, Trevor Goodchild, she discovers that both she and the Monicans are being manipulated by a cabal of council members working towards a coup d'état, unrelated to the goals of the Monicans.

Æon questions the origins of everyone in Bregna and in particular, her personal connection to Trevor. Everyone in Bregna is revealed to be a clone, grown from recycled DNA. With the dead constantly being reborn as new individuals and bearing partial memories of their previous lives, their troubling dreams have increased. Cloning was required because the antidote to the virus made humans infertile. Trevor's ongoing experiments were attempts to reverse the infertility. His preceding clones had all worked on this problem. Æon learns that she is a clone of the original Trevor's wife Katherine and that she is the first "Katherine" clone in over 400 years.

Una was one of Trevor's most successful experiments; part of a group of clones that proved to be fertile, with Una having been pregnant when she was killed. However, in order to keep the dynasty of Goodchild clones in power, Trevor's brother, Oren, had Una killed along with the other members of the fertile experimental group. He ordered all of Trevor's research to be destroyed. In a confrontation with Trevor and Æon, Oren reveals that nature has corrected the infertility problem and that some women are becoming pregnant without intervention by scientists. Oren has had them all killed to maintain the Goodchild reign. Æon then goes against both Oren and her former allies, who want to kill Trevor and also kill her for not killing Trevor.

Æon convinces the other Monicans tracking her, including her friend Sithandra, to ignore the Handler and to help her kill Oren and his men. Æon goes to destroy the Relical, the dirigible that stores the DNA for cloning. There she meets Keeper, the old man who monitors everything. She discovers that he preserved Katherine's DNA for years, although an earlier Oren clone had ordered it to be destroyed so "Katherine" could not influence any Trevors. The dirigible crashes into the city wall, breaking it down to reveal the surrounding land for the first time in centuries.

####After Earth####


In the future on a human-populated space colony, Nova Prime, the S'krell extraterrestrial race attempts to take it over with creatures called Ursas, which hunt by "sensing" fear. Peacekeeping organization The Ranger Corps defeat them with a fear-suppressing technique called "ghosting," but not before an Ursa kills Senshi, the daughter of Rangers' leader Cypher Raige. Kitai, Cypher's son, blames himself for Senshi's death. He trains to become a Ranger like Cypher, but is rejected when he applies. Kitai's mother Faia convinces Cypher to take Kitai on his last voyage before retirement. During flight, however, their spaceship is caught in an asteroid shower, causing them to crash-land on Earth, which the humans evacuated a thousand years ago due to an environmental cataclysm.

The two manage to survive, but Cypher's legs are broken in the process, and the main beacon for firing a distress signal is damaged. Cypher instructs Kitai to locate the tail section of the ship, which broke off on entry to the atmosphere. Inside is the backup beacon, which they can use to signal Nova Prime. Cypher gives Kitai his weapon, a wrist communicator and six capsules of a fluid that enhances oxygen intake so he can breathe in Earth's low-oxygen atmosphere. Cypher warns him to avoid the highly evolved fauna and flora and be careful of violent thermal shifts. Kitai leaves to find the tail section, with Cypher guiding him through the communicator.

Kitai confronts many of the hazards his father warned about, including attacks from baboon-like monkeys, a venomous leech, a thermal shift, and the damaging of two of his capsules. After a story from Cypher about how he conceived "ghosting" to kill the Ursas, Kitai reaches a cliffside waterfall and Cypher learns about the broken capsules. Knowing that the only way to make it with the two capsules would be to skydive, Cypher orders Kitai to abort the mission, but Kitai, believing that Cypher still sees him as a disappointment, goes against the order after a monologue of him blaming Cypher's absence at home for Senshi's death. Kitai is captured by a large condor and his communicator is damaged. In the bird's nest, Kitai tries and fails to defend her chicks against big cats before escaping to a river, where he drifts on a raft. After a sleep where he dreams of Senshi, he wakes up to a thermal shift that nearly freezes him to death. Kitai is rescued when the bird, who had lost her brood when the cats attacked, sacrifices herself for him because Kitai tried to protect her chicks.

Kitai reaches the tail section and tries to activate the emergency beacon, but the atmosphere blocks the signal. Kitai learns that the ship's Ursa escaped and killed the rest of the crew. It attacks him, but Kitai is able to kill it using the "ghost" technique he learned from Cypher. Kitai climbs a volcano to fire the beacon, and he and Cypher get back to Nova Prime via a rescue team.

####Aftershock (1990 film)####
####Against the Dark####
An epidemic disease has overwhelmed humanity, turning nearly everyone into blood-thirsty infected who resemble vampires and zombies. There is no known cure and very few survivors left fighting "against the dark".

Tao (Seagal) is in charge of a group of vampire/zombie hunters. The survivors in the hospital are shown to be scared, isolated and untrusting. As the characters work their way through the hospital, they drift apart numerous times, often getting lost and attacked. To make matters worse for the survivors, a massive army base is planning to bomb the area at dawn.

The survivors must get to the one functioning exit from the hospital before the emergency power runs out and they are shut inside. In addition, many of the stairways and elevators are blocked off, forcing them to make their way level by level.

Meanwhile, Cross (Linden Ashby) tries to prevent Lieutenant Waters (Keith David) from unleashing a bombing raid on the hospital. A number of survivors and a hunter are killed and a different hunter is infected as they make their way out of the hospital. A survivor is captured by a human to be fed on by his infected daughter, but is rescued by Tao. As the humans make their way out, a horde of infected chase them. As they exit the hospital just in time before the power fails the vampires become trapped inside. The surviving humans then run as jet planes bomb the forsaken hospital.

####Age of Dinosaurs####
Using flesh-regeneration machines, Genetisharp (a biotech company) creates a set of living dinosaurs and pterosaurs from a strand of DNA. The creatures escape and terrorize Los Angeles. These prehistoric animals include a giant Ceratosaurus, raptorlike Carnotaurus, building-climbing Spinosaurus, and brutal Pteranodon. The final battle is on the Hollywood Sign, and the dinosaurs are all destroyed when they are run into a collapsing building due to them being drawn there by scent.

####Akira (planned film)####
####Alien Apocalypse####
Astronaut and Osteopath, Dr. Ivan Hood and his companion Kelly return to Earth after a 40-year space mission with two other astronauts. They are soon captured by human bounty hunters near the ruins of Portland, Oregon and one of their team is killed after sustaining a sprain; Dr. Hood pointed out that it would have healed in a few days. They are taken to a work camp, which to their surprise, is run by giant termite-like aliens. These aliens had arrived 20 years ago to feast on the wood and used E.M.P. bombs to cripple earth before their invasion. The other member of their team is eaten alive by one of the aliens after refusing to work. The camp is supervised by human bounty hunters; they are treated better. After seeing how illiterate and savage humans have become due to the aliens, Dr. Hood and Kelly plan to make an escape the next day after hearing rumors that the President has survived and has an army waiting to strike back.

The escape plan goes off without a hitch, but Kelly is recaptured by the bounty hunters. Dr. Hood travels to find the president and meets other humans who believe the President has survived. Dr. Hood and his convoy reach a secret headquarters to discover remnants of the American government and the President, who is now a shell of his former self. Extremely ticked off, Dr. Hood decides to rally the escaped slaves himself and plan an attack on the bug camp where Kelly is still being held.  The attack begins successfully and Kelly (who has lost one of her fingers as punishment for trying to escape) joins in. Things seem hopeless when the bugs bring in heavy artillery, but the President's group arrives and pulls off a sneak attack that blows up the bug's tanks. The other slaves join in and defeat the bugs. Dr. Hood and his rebels then went on a quest to continue killing the bugs and gather more followers from the camps. "In time he (Dr. Hood) became known as The Great Exterminator".

####Alien Arsenal####
####Alien Hunter####
In 1947 New Mexico, a radio operator receives a bizarre signal, coming from Roswell, New Mexico. He decides to investigate the signal's origin and goes out to follow it, never to be seen again.

Present day and the same signal is received from the South Pole and then retransmitted from the Falkland Islands to the United States. A satellite image captures an unknown object sitting on the Antarctic snow. Cryptologist Julian Rome (James Spader), a teacher at the University of California, Berkeley, is invited to investigate the mystery. He is sent to an Antarctic research base, which includes a huge greenhouse of genetically modified plants being studied by the scientists. They find what appears to be an alien vehicle frozen in a huge block of ice. The unknown object is shaped like a shell or pod and is emitting the mysterious encrypted signal. Once it is freed of the ice, Julian discovers that it has a powerful static electric charge on its surface and painfully shocks anyone who touches it.

Julian tries to decrypt the signal (which soon proves to be: "Do not open!"), while another team works to open the alien shell. They succeed in cutting off the lid, which allows a viscous alien liquid to pour out. An alien also escapes and at the same time an airborne virus sealed in the shell kills four members of the scientific team by melting them from within. The virus also kills all the plants, making them wilt and turn brown. The virus has an unusually high speed of transmission and extreme virulence. It kills anyone within a few minutes of exposure.

The government is aware of the alien virus and the global risk that it poses. They ask a Russian nuclear submarine to fire a nuclear missile at the base before the threat can spread. As the submarine nears its firing position, Julian manages to communicate with the alien, before it is unfortunately killed by one of the survivors. Julian realizes that if any of the survivors leave the base alive, the lethal alien virus will cause a pandemic destroying all life on earth. Just a few seconds before the missile hits, he and three others, Shelly, Kate, and Dr. Gierach, are rescued from the base by an alien spacecraft (which had homed in on the same signal Julian was studying).

In the aftermath, the government mounts a cover-up campaign by claiming that an experimental nuclear reactor at the base went into melt-down, destroying all of the facilities and killing everyone. The film ends with the alien spacecraft, still carrying the human survivors, leaving the solar system.

####Alien Intruder####
Set in 2022,  several convicts sentenced to life in prison are led on a mission into uncharted deep space by Commander Skyler (Williams) to salvage a lost ship. Should they survive their mission, their sentence will be commuted. Astronaut Borman had killed the crew of the lost ship.

While on the way to the ship, the convicts are allowed into a series virtual reality world where they could live out their sexual fantasies with any woman they choose.

However, Ariel  (Scoggins), a woman who is not part of the virtual reality programs appears in it, kills each virtual woman, and seduces each convict. When Ariel begins to appear outside the program, she manipulates the men, who quickly turn on each other.

####Alien Nation (film)####
In 1988, a spaceship bearing 300,000 enslaved aliens known as "Newcomers" lands in the Mojave Desert. By 1991, they have settled in Los Angeles and some of them have joined Los Angeles Police Department the city's police department. Detective Matthew Sykes' partner is killed in a shootout while trying to stop two Newcomer criminals from murdering another Newcomer. Sykes's superior, Captain Warner, informs his squad that they will have to work with the newly promoted Newcomer detective Sam Francisco.  Sykes volunteers to team up with Francisco to investigate the homicide of a Newcomer named Warren Hubley, hoping to also be able to investigate his partner's death even though he is officially barred from doing so.

While at a crime lab, Francisco detects an abnormality on the body of one of the Newcomer criminals who was killed in the robbery. This leads Sykes and Francisco to a nightclub to question a Newcomer named Joshua Strader, but Strader is murdered by a criminal ring led by Newcomer businessman William Harcourt and his henchman Rudyard Kipling.

Harcourt is in the advanced stages of launching a scheme to exploit the Newcomers by mass-producing a drug called Jabroka, which was used to pacify Newcomers when they were slaves, but has no effect on humans. The abnormality noticed by Francisco on the body of the Newcomer criminal turns out to be a visual sign of the drug's influence. The Newcomers Hubley, Porter, and Strader were involved in the planning phases of the operation, but were later murdered due to Harcourt's desire to exclude them from any future financial rewards. Ultimately, Sykes and Francisco track down Harcourt, who is negotiating a timetable for the release of Jabroka. The detectives engage in a car chase with Harcourt and Kipling, ending in a head-on collision that leaves both parties injured. Harcourt escapes on foot; when cornered by Sykes, he takes an overdose of Jabroka that causes him to mutate in a larger, more muscular, more violent form.

Sykes and Francisco pursue Harcourt, catching up with him near a fishing pier, and Sykes fights him hand-to-hand on the open sea. Harcourt's body disintegrates due to direct contact with salt water, which is hazardous to Newcomer physiology. Francisco commandeers a police helicopter and rescues Sykes from the water. Sykes and Francisco, now friends, attend Sykes's daughter's wedding together.  Sykes asks Francisco to forgive him for all the stupid things he might do and say in the years to come, and Francisco reassures Sykes that he will.

####Alien Nation: Dark Horizon####
In a recapitulation of the series' cliffhanger, "Alien Nation: Dark Horizon" begins with Susan Francisco and her daughter Emily falling victim to a newly developed viral infection that was created by a group of human Purists to exterminate the Newcomer species.  There is also a new sub-plot running parallel to this one, the story of Ahpossno, a Tenctonese Overseer who lands on Earth to find any surviving Tenctonese and bring them back into slavery. The idea of a signal sent into space by the surviving Overseers was explored in the "Alien Nation" episode "Contact".

The series episode ended with contaminated flowers being delivered to the Francisco family and Cathy informing Matt that they have been hospitalized. "Dark Horizon" re-stages these events so that George Francisco is not present.

####Alien vs. Predator (film)####

In 2004, a Predator ship arrives on Earth and uses a heating device to melt a hole in Antarctic ice. Meanwhile, a satellite detects the heat bloom beneath Bouvetøya, an island about convert|1000|mi|abbr=on off the coast of Antarctica. Wealthy industrialist Charles Weyland discovers through thermal imaging that there is a pyramid buried convert|2000|ft|abbr=on beneath the ice. He assembles a team of experts to investigate, including archaeologists, linguists, mercenaries, and a mountaineering guide named Lex Woods. Terminally ill, Weyland desires to claim the discovery in his name.

When the team arrives at the abandoned whaling station, they find a newly made tunnel running directly beneath the ice toward the pyramid. The team descends the tunnel and begins to explore the pyramid, soon finding evidence of an ancient civilization and what appears to be a sacrificial chamber filled with human skeletons that all have ruptured rib cages.

Meanwhile, three Predators ⁠— Scar, Celtic, and Chopper ⁠— arrive and kill the remaining team members on the surface. They make their way down to the pyramid and arrive just as the team unwittingly activates the structure and is trapped within it. The Xenomorph Queen awakens from cryogenic stasis and begins to produce eggs. When the eggs hatch, several facehuggers attach themselves to humans trapped in the sacrificial chamber. Chestbursters emerge from the humans and quickly grow into adult Xenomorphs. The humans take possession of the Predator's blasters, and conflict erupts between the Predators, Xenomorphs, and humans. Celtic and Chopper are killed by a Xenomorph, and Weyland buys Lex and Sebastian De Rosa enough time to escape from Scar, giving his life in the process. The two witness Scar kill a facehugger and a Xenomorph before unmasking and marking himself with the acidic blood of the facehugger. After Lex and Sebastian leave, another facehugger attacks Scar.

Through translation of the pyramid's hieroglyphs, Lex and Sebastian learn that the Predators have been visiting Earth for thousands of years. They taught the early human civilization how to build pyramids and were worshipped as gods. Every 100 years, they visit Earth to take part in a rite of passage by which several humans sacrifice themselves as hosts for the Xenomorphs, creating the "ultimate prey" for the Predators to hunt. As a fail-safe, if overwhelmed, the Predators would activate a self-destruct device to eliminate the Xenomorphs. They deduce that the Predators lured them into the pyramid to use as a sacrifice.

Lex and Sebastian decide that the Predators must be allowed to succeed so that the Xenomorphs do not escape to the surface. Sebastian is captured by a Xenomorph, and Lex returns the blaster to Scar. They are attacked by a Xenomorph, and Lex manages to kill it. Impressed, Scar uses parts of a dead Xenomorph to fashion weapons for Lex, and the two form an alliance. Lex finds Sebastian, who has become the host of a Xenomorph. She mercy kills him, but the Xenomorph Queen is freed from her restraints and, along with the other Xenomorphs, begins pursuing Lex and Scar. Scar detaches and uses a bomb in his wrist module to destroy the pyramid and the remaining Xenomorphs and eggs. Lex and Scar reach the surface, and Scar uses acidic Xenomorph blood to mark Lex with the Xenomorph hunter symbol. However, the Xenomorph Queen reappears and attacks. They defeat the Queen by hooking her chains to a water tank and pushing her over a cliff, so that she sinks to the ocean floor under the tank's weight. Scar is fatally wounded.

A Predator spaceship appears, and its crew retrieves its fallen comrade. An elder Predator presents Lex with a spear as a gift as the spaceship departs. Lex walks over to a snowcat and leaves the area. On the Predator spaceship, Scar's body lies at rest when a Predalien chestburster erupts from his chest.

####Alien: Covenant####
####Alienator####
Kol, an alien criminal, escapes from a spaceship into the woods of an American suburb. The commander of the spaceship dispatches "the Alienator"—a deadly gynoid, to capture Kol. She relentlessly pursues Kol and a group of teenagers whom he meets up with.

####Aliens (film)####

Ellen Ripley has been in stasis for 57 years aboard an escape shuttle after destroying her ship, the "Nostromo", to escape an alien creature that slaughtered the rest of the crew. She is rescued and debriefed by her employers at the Weyland-Yutani Corporation, who are skeptical about her claim of alien eggs in a derelict ship on the exomoon LV-426,efn|The exomoon known as LV-426 is also referred to as Acheron.<ref name="SyFyNewt"/> since it is now the site of a terraforming colony.

After contact is lost with the colony, Weyland-Yutani representative Carter Burke and Colonial Marine Lieutenant Gorman ask Ripley to accompany them to investigate. Still traumatized by her alien encounter, she agrees on the condition that they exterminate the creatures. Ripley is introduced to the Colonial Marines on the spaceship "Sulaco" but is distrustful of their android, Bishop, because the android aboard the "Nostromo" betrayed its crew to protect the alien on company orders.

A dropship delivers the expedition to the surface of LV-426, where they find the battle-ravaged colony and two live alien facehuggers in containment tanks, but no bodies or colonists except for a traumatized young girl, nicknamed Newt. The team locates the colonists beneath the fusion-powered atmosphere processing station and heads to their location, descending into corridors covered in alien secretions. At the station center, the Marines find opened eggs and dead facehuggers alongside the cocooned colonists now serving as incubators for the creatures' offspring. The Marines kill an infant alien after it bursts from a colonist's chest, rousing several adult aliens who ambush the Marines and kill or capture many of them. When the inexperienced Gorman panics, Ripley assumes command, takes control of their armored personnel carrier, and rams the nest to rescue Corporal Dwayne Hicks and Privates Hudson and Vasquez. Hicks orders the dropship to recover the survivors, but a stowaway alien kills the pilots, and it crashes into the station. Almost out of ammunition and resources, the survivors barricade themselves inside the colony.

Ripley discovers that Burke ordered the colonists to investigate the derelict spaceship containing the alien eggs, intending to profit by recovering them for biological weapon research. Before she can expose him, Bishop informs the group that the dropship crash damaged the power-plant cooling system and the plant will soon overheat and explode, destroying the colony. He volunteers to travel to the colony transmitter and remotely pilot the "Sulaco"'s remaining dropship to the surface.

After falling asleep in the medical laboratory, Ripley and Newt awaken to find themselves trapped with the two released facehuggers. Ripley triggers a fire alarm to alert the Marines, who rescue them and kill the creatures. She accuses Burke of releasing the facehuggers to implant her and Newt with alien embryos, allowing him to smuggle them through Earth's quarantine. The power is suddenly cut, and aliens attack through the ceiling. In the ensuing firefight, the aliens kill Burke, subdue Hudson, and injure Hicks; the cornered Gorman and Vasquez sacrifice themselves to avoid capture. Newt is separated from Ripley and taken by the creatures. Ripley brings Hicks to Bishop in the second dropship, but she refuses to abandon Newt and arms herself before descending into the processing station hive alone to rescue her. During their escape, they encounter the alien queen surrounded by dozens of eggs, and when one begins to open, Ripley uses her weapons to destroy them all and the queen's ovipositor. Pursued by the enraged queen, Ripley and Newt join Bishop and Hicks on the dropship and escape moments before the station explodes, consuming the colony in a nuclear blast.

Aboard the "Sulaco", the group is ambushed by the queen, who stowed away in the dropship's landing gear. The queen tears Bishop in half and advances on Newt, but Ripley fights the creature with an exosuit cargo loader and expels it through an airlock into space while the damaged Bishop keeps Newt safe. Ripley, Newt, Hicks, and Bishop enter hypersleep for their return trip to Earth.

####Alita: Battle Angel####
####All Superheroes Must Die####

The film opens with Charge/John (Trost), Cutthroat/Ben (Till), The Wall/Charlie (Valmassy), and Shadow/Jill (Merkley), waking up in a seemingly abandoned town, all bearing strange injection marks on their wrists. They soon discover television sets through which their nemesis, Rickshaw, whom the group thought Charge had defeated some time ago, explains to them that he has staged a game all across town with innocents' lives at stake, and that he has also taken away their powers. To prove this, he executes a civilian near Cutthroat's location, then instructs the heroes to head to a meeting ground. Once there, the four have a brief personal reunion, in which the group realizes that Charge still retains some of his abilities, before Rickshaw interrupts them, giving them new orders. Charge assumes command of the group almost unanimously, with the exception of Cutthroat, who appears disgruntled with the others' decision.

The group finds themselves in a hardware store, where Rickshaw instructs each of them to choose a weapon, then divides them into teams of two and orders them to a deathmatch with two of his goons in different parts of the town; Charge and Cutthroat head off to the lumber mill, while The Wall and Shadow go to the scrap yard. In the mill, Charge and Cutthroat find a group of civilians strapped to explosives with the fuse already lit, and Charge faces Sledgesaw, a goon of Rickshaw's, while Cutthroat tries to defuse the explosives. Charge defeats his opponent and they succeed in cutting the fuse, only for Rickshaw to remotely detonate the device moments after Charge saves Cutthroat and himself by pulling him away from the civilians. While surveying the wreckage, Cutthroat laments in his inability to save the civilians, stating that if he had his power of super speed, he could have saved them.

Meanwhile, in the scrap yard, The Wall and Shadow are attacked by Manpower, who wields a flamethrower against them. Once it runs out of fuel, The Wall charges him, only to be promptly taken down without his superpower (presumably some form of invincibility, which also renders him immune to physical pain). Shadow tries to help, but without her own power of invisibility, she is unable to prevent Manpower from stabbing The Wall in the stomach. Just as he turns to her, Charge and Cutthroat arrive and defeat Manpower. Charge then informs the group that The Wall only has moments to live, as his wounds are not treatable. He instructs Shadow, who presumably had an intimate relationship with him, to stay with The Wall until the end while he explains to Cutthroat that he has a plan to defeat Rickshaw and that Rickshaw does not care if they win or not, but will execute civilians merely to affect them; he is proven right when, moments after The Wall's death, he executes the trapped civilians and then gives the group the coordinates for a new, "Bonus Round".

The group arrives at a cabin where three civilians are held, and they discover three coffins with their names on them, as well as a single gun. Rickshaw appears and tells them that he will spare a civilian for each of them that commits suicide at their respective coffin, but Charge takes the gun and executes the hostages himself, much to the others' horror. He argues that Rickshaw would kill them anyway, and that he did it so none of the others would be tempted to take their own lives. Cutthroat tells Shadow that he trusts Charge to have a plan, noting that "...failure is just not an option to him." It is revealed through flashbacks that the four were close friends at some point, that Charge was the one who had urged the rest to become superheroes after they obtained their powers, and that Charge and Cutthroat were working as a team. It is also suggested that Charge and the Shadow had feelings for one another, but never acted on them. Rickshaw congratulates Charge on his actions, then orders them to head to a bar.

Once there, they find two guns next to the TV set. Rickshaw appears and reveals he has Cutthroat's sister hostage, then orders Cutthroat to kill the other two in order to save her. Charge and Shadow try to reason with him, but he attacks Charge, bitter about how he was always treated as a sidekick by him. While fighting, he picks up a pair of knives, throwing one onto Shadow's shoulder and slashing Charge across the chest with the other, before Charge drives it into his chest. Cutthroat dies, and, soon after, Rickshaw executes his sister. Charge and Shadow grieve briefly before Charge reveals that he loves Shadow, and that, unlike the other three who each got a power and agelessness from "that thing [that] fell out of the sky", he himself never had any special powers, which is why he had been constantly training and why he has aged over the time they had been apart. He reveals that he can locate Rickshaw and kill him, as he can see them but not hear them, but he needs the location of the next TV set to do so.

When they arrive at the location of the next TV set, Rickshaw orders one to kill the other. Charge tells Shadow that she needs to shoot him in a way that would make it seem as if he died, then he would find and kill Rickshaw while he was distracted monitoring her. She does, unwillingly, and heads out towards the "Last Round". Meanwhile, Charge triangulates his position, then storms his hideout. Rickshaw, shocked to see him alive, is shot by Charge with a shotgun, but manages to activate a failsafe device right before he dies. Charge tells Shadow to head out of town, but she frees the civilians of the Last Round and then finds his map, where he had marked Rickshaw's location. She finds him and helps him to his feet, and they leave the hideout as the timer counts down, with little more than a minute left.

In a post-credits scene, a brief shot shows Cutthroat's eyes suddenly opening.

####The Amazing Spider-Man (film)####

A young Peter Parker discovers that his father, business tycoon Richard Parker's study has been burgled. Peter's parents gather hidden documents, take Peter to the home of his Aunt May and Uncle Ben, and mysteriously leave. Years later, a teenage Peter attends Midtown Science High School; he is intelligent but socially awkward and often bullied. He also has a crush on Gwen Stacy, who returns his feelings.

Learning that his father is friends with Dr. Curt Connors, a scientist at Oscorp in the field of cross-species genetics, Peter sneaks into Oscorp, where he is bitten by a genetically modified spider. He then discovers he has developed spider-like abilities, such as superhuman strength, sharp senses, agility, and speed. Peter studies his father's papers and visits Connors, whose right arm is amputated above the elbow. Peter reveals he is Richard's son and gives Connors his father's "decay rate algorithm," the missing piece in Connors' experiments on regenerating limbs. At home, Peter and Ben argue, and Peter leaves. At a convenience store, Peter is confronted by the miserly cashier. A third man then robs the store, and Peter allows him to escape to get back at the cashier, but the robber encounters Uncle Ben who is searching for Peter. Uncle Ben is shot by the robber, and then Peter arrives and his Uncle dies in his arms. Peter uses his new abilities to track down criminals matching the killer's description. He creates a mask and spandex suit to hide his identity. He also builds mechanical web-shooters out of wristwatches to attach to his arms/wrists. At dinner with Gwen's family, he discovers her father is police captain George Stacy, who dislikes the new vigilante hero.

Peter reveals his identity to Gwen, and they kiss. After seeing success with the lab rats using lizard DNA, Connors' superior Ratha demands Connors begin human trials immediately. Connors refuses to rush the drug-testing procedure and put innocent people at risk. Ratha fires Connors and decides to test his serum at a Veterans Administration hospital. In an act of desperation, Connors tries the formula on himself. After passing out, he awakens to find his missing arm has regenerated. Discovering that Ratha is on his way to the hospital, Connors goes to intercept him. By the time he gets to the Williamsburg Bridge, he has become a violent humanoid reptile. Peter, now calling himself Spider-Man, saves the people on the bridge from Connors' attack. Following a battle in the sewer, the Lizard learns Spider-Man's real identity and attacks Peter at school. Police start a manhunt for both Spider-Man and the Lizard. They eventually corner Spider-Man, leading Captain Stacy to discover that Spider-Man is Peter and lets him go to stop the Lizard. The Lizard plans to make all humans reptilian by releasing a chemical cloud from Oscorp's tower, to eliminate the weaknesses he believes plague humanity.

Gwen creates an antidote, which Peter disperses, restoring Connors and his victims to normal, but not before the Lizard fatally wounds Captain Stacy. Before his death, Captain Stacy asks that Peter avoid Gwen to keep her safe. Peter initially does so, but seeing as they're both unhappy, hints to her that he may see her after all.

In a mid-credits scene, an incarcerated Connors speaks with a man in the shadows who asks if Peter knows the truth about his father. Connors does not know and demands that Peter be left alone, before the man disappears.efn|Ifans said of the scene, "Connors is sent to an asylum, a high-security asylum... [a]nd he's visited by, shall we say, a representative from Oscorp. How he gets into that cell and how he leaves that cell without the guards knowing? We have yet to find out." The then-unnamed character, played by Michael Massee, is credited as "Man in the shadows". In "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" he is finally identified as Gustav Fiers, an Oscorp employee who is forming a group of supervillains.|name=|group=

####The Amazing Spider-Man 2####
Former Oscorp scientist and businessman Richard Parker records a video message to explain his disappearance. He and his wife Mary Parker try to flee aboard a private jet that is hijacked by an assassin. The jet crashes, killing the couple.

In the present day, two years after his battle with Dr. Curt Connors, Richard and Mary's son, Peter, continues to fight crime as Spider-Man and apprehends Russian criminal Aleksei Sytsevich. Due to Peter's reservations about his relationship with his girlfriend Gwen Stacy since making a vow to her late father to stay away from her, Gwen ends their relationship after their high school graduation. Peter's childhood friend, Harry Osborn, returns home to see his terminally sick father, Norman Osborn, CEO of Oscorp. He explains that his illness is genetic and Harry is at the age where it first develops. Norman dies, and Harry is appointed the new CEO.

While working in an Oscorp laboratory, mild-mannered electrical engineer Max Dillon accidentally shocks himself and falls into a tank of genetically-engineered electric eels. They attack him and he mutates into a living electric generator. Meanwhile, Gwen tells Peter that she may move to England if she earns a scholarship to Oxford University. Unaware of the extent of his power, Dillon wanders into Times Square, accidentally causes a power outage, and is stopped by Peter, as Spider-Man. Dillon is taken to the Ravencroft Institute, where he is studied by German scientist Dr. Ashley Kafka.

Meanwhile, the first symptoms of Harry's illness are showing, and he uses information Norman gave him to deduce that Spider-Man's blood could save him. He asks Peter, who has been selling photos of Spider-Man to the "Daily Bugle", to aid him in finding Spider-Man. Peter is unsure of what effects the transfusion would have and wary of the possibility of Harry suffering a mutation similar to Dr. Connors. He later refuses Harry as Spider-Man, angering him. Oscorp vice president Donald Menken frames Harry for covering up Dillon's accident, removes him as CEO, and takes control of Oscorp. Harry proposes a deal with Dillon, who now calls himself "Electro", to get back inside the Oscorp building. Electro agrees and kills Dr. Kafka.

Upon getting back into Oscorp, Harry finds the venom from the now-destroyed genetically altered spiders. However, after he forces Menken to inject him with the venom, it accelerates his illness and turns him into a goblin-like creature, but the built-in emergency protocol in an armored suit restores his health. Meanwhile, Peter finds his father's secret lab in an abandoned subway station and learns that he had to flee because he refused to cooperate with Norman's plans to make biogenetic weapons with his research. Peter then discovers that Gwen was offered the Oxford scholarship. He professes his love for her, and they agree to go to England together.

When Electro causes another power outage, Peter and Gwen restore power and overload Electro's body, killing him. Harry, as the Green Goblin, arrives equipped with Norman's weaponry. Upon seeing Gwen, he deduces Spider-Man's secret identity and swearing revenge for being refused the blood transfusion, takes her to the top of a large clock tower. Peter manages to subdue the Goblin but is unable to save Gwen, who falls to her death. Guilt-ridden and depressed, Peter ends his career as Spider-Man.

Five months later, Harry is coping with the aftereffects of his transformation while being imprisoned at Ravencroft. His associate, Gustav Fiers, visits him and the pair discusses forming their own team. Harry orders Fiers to start with Sytsevich, escaped from prison. Equipped with an electromechanical suit of armor, Sytsevich dubs himself the "Rhino" and rampages through the streets. Peter, inspired by Gwen's graduation speech, confronts him as Spider-Man.

####America 3000####
Young Plugots, Korvis and Gruss, are taken as slaves to the 'Comb of the Friscos', a Frau base. Korvis starts a riot, and the pair manage to escape. The boys flee into 'the contamns', an old irradiated territory where the religious Frau cannot pursue them. In the contamns, Korvis and Gruss find a children's book, and a top-hat.

Korvis and Gruss band together with other escaped Plugots, and spend years forming a comb of their own in the contamns, out of the ruins of an old 'Murcan' army base named Camp Reagan. Korvis spends his free time reading and educating himself from the children's book, coming to the realization that they are all 'Men', rather than Plugots. Gruss goes on to elaborate that, while the refined males of their camp were now 'Men'; feral, less intellectual Plugots still did exist, driven by hunger and stupidity. On the way back to the Comb of the Friscos, Reya, the Queen of the Frau (known as a Tiara), is gravely wounded during an ambush by feral Plugots.

Upon arrival at the Comb of the Friscos, Reya is near death, and informs her daughters about a secret map in her shelter, instructing them to follow it. Reya passes on her title of Tiara to the eldest daughter, Vena, much to the dismay of the younger sister, Lakella. Upon hearing of Reya's death, Morha, the Tiara of Kansos, and her sister, Freyha, arrive at the gates of the Comb of Frisco. A funeral for Reya and a celebration for Vena's crowning are held at the camp. A prayer is held, blessing Vena's rule until the great 'Prezeedent' arrives to lead them all to salvation. Lakella is seen as the stronger sister by Morha, and was expected to be the new Tiara of Frisco. Morha and Freyha discuss the unrest during Vena's crowning, and look for an opportunity to annex the comb into their own fold. Vena finds the map, which shows a path through the entirety of 'the contamns'. Lynka, Vena's closest friend, warns her that, if her sister Lakella finds out about her intent to break the sacred rules, Vena will certainly be overthrown.

Korvis attacks the Comb of the Friscos and releases the remaining male slaves, but finds himself needing to distract the pursuing Frau. He leads Lakella and Vena into the contamns, where the women catch up to him. Lakella shoots Korvis, knocking him into a ravine. Korvis awakens, narrowly avoiding death, as Lakella's arrow was stopped by the children's reading book. Korvis searches for an exit, but instead comes across an old vault door. Inside the vault, Korvis discovers a stash of laser weapons, a boombox, a radiation suit, and a message for the President of The United States. Korvis uses his newfound technology to roleplay the mythical god-character of 'The Prezeedent', and seeks to kidnap a close friend of Vena to trade in exchange for diplomacy.

Gruss and Relk ambush a Frau seeder camp, and capture Lynka. Later that night, Korvis rains fire from the sky and terrorizes the Frau to get their attention, commanding that Vena meet 'the prezeedent' at sunrise in the contamns. Vena meets with 'the prezeedent' and, in exchange for Lynka's life, follows him  to the presidential bunker. Inside, Korvis reveals his true identity to Vena, and shows her that, as she is 'woman', he is 'man'. Korvis invites her to feel his flesh, ultimately leading to the couple having intercourse. Meanwhile, back at the Frau base, Morha and Freyha conspire against Vena, and convince Lakella to usurp her sister's crown. In a display of power, Lakella launches an assault on the Plugot base.

During the assault on the men's camp, many lives are lost. Morha is knocked off her horse by a grenade and is trampled by the remaining soldiers, Amie is killed by an oncoming thunder-rock, and Lakella is killed in hand-to-hand combat with Gruss. Korvis, upon arriving home to the wreckage, angrily launches a counter-offensive, believing Vena is to blame. At the Frisco gates, Korvis meets a surrendering Vena, who was unaware of the ambush plans or her sister's treachery. Vena and Korvis throw down their weapons, and kiss. The onlooking men and women follow suit, signaling an end to the war between them.

####American Cyborg: Steel Warrior####
####American Warships####
USS|Iowa|BB-61|6 is on its final voyage before being decommissioned and turning into a floating museum. When USS|Enterprise|CVN-65|6 is attacked and destroyed by a mysterious force, World War III looms. The captain of "Iowa" chases an invisible ship, which they discover to be an alien force waging war on Earth. Only the crew of this last American battleship stands in their way. (The Iowa's outdated technology is immune to the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) weapons of the alien.)

During the fight, in Washington, D.C., General McKraken attempts to steer the high stake game of brinkmanship between the U.S. and other world powers as several coast towns in North Korea were also attacked, in an apparent attempt by the aliens to get the world to destroy itself. McKraken's diplomatic efforts attempt to buy "Iowa" time to provide proof of the alien incursion.

####Android Cop####
In 2045, Los Angeles Police Department detective Hammond (Michael Jai White) and his new partner "Andy" (Randy Wayne) — a state of the art crimefighting robot cop — are tasked with recovering a runaway Telepresence android containing the consciousness of Mayor Jacobs's (Charles S. Dutton) daughter Helen (Larissa Vereza), who remains unaware that she is a human mind in a machine body. Hammond does not trust machines due to a prior incident in which his partner was killed by an automated gun turret despite their using a code to control it, and maintains a tense, often sarcastic relationship with Andy. Hammond and Andy are dispatched to the "Zone," a quarantined section of Los Angeles devastated by an earthquake and subsequent nuclear leaks, which have infected and mutated the Zone's residents.

However, they are unaware that a number of their fellow LAPD officers are corrupt, working for Mayor Jacobs himself in a plan to provoke violence with the goal of justifying an invasion of the Zone and termination of its residents. The corrupt cops are led by Sgt. Jones (Kadeem Hardison), Hammond's colleague. Hammond and Andy reach the Zone and trace Helen's cellphone, but have to be rescued by her when a bomb is planted on their car. She reveals to them that Zone residents are giving birth to healthy, mutation-free children, causing them to realize that the story about nuclear leaks was a lie. En route to what they believe to be an extraction point, Hammond, Andy and Helen realize that the lie about nuclear leakage was spread to manipulate land prices, and that the real source of the disease is the food drop program for which Mayor Jacobs has received honor.

At the extraction point, Helen realizes she is an android, and Hammond comforts her. Jones and a team of corrupt cops arrive intending to kill Hammond, Andy and Helen, but Andy discovers their motives using analysis of their facial motions. As Hammond and Helen flee, the corrupt cops initiate their Plan 'B,' overriding the controls of a police android — however, it is not Andy, it is Hammond. The incident at the gun turret in the past had actually involved Hammond suffering mortal injuries, while Helen was hurt trying to help him. Both were placed on life support and given control of Telepresence androids. Hammond resists the attempts to force him to terminate Helen and overloads the control computer, leaving himself in full control of his actions. Andy holds off Jones's squad, and the three escape. They decide they must reach the city and publicize the truth about Mayor Jacobs's plan.

As a desperate, last-ditch attempt to salvage their plans, the corrupt cops disconnect Hammond and Helen's life support, leaving them with only around twenty minutes before their android bodies shut down. Andy leaps onto the flying vehicle carrying Jones's team and crashes it, while Hammond and Helen crash into the hospital. With very little time left, they embrace in the back seat of their car, and Hammond dies. Andy reaches Helen with help from her nurse android, whose computers he had accessed earlier, and gives her an injection. Mayor Jacobs arrives, and believing Helen to be dead, thanks Andy for his service and claims Helen signed a do not resuscitate order, which must be enforced. However, Helen wakes up and remembers everything, much to Jacobs's shock. Andy uses his systems to broadcast their conversation, revealing Mayor Jacobs's treachery to the public. The remaining honest police arrive to arrest Jacobs, who commits suicide.

Sometime later, Hammond's neural patterns have been programmed into a full android, resurrecting him in a body similar to Andy's. Maintaining their sarcastic but productive partnership, they go out on duty again.

####Andy Colby's Incredible Adventure####
####Ant-Man (film)####

In 1989, scientist Hank Pym resigns from S.H.I.E.L.D. after discovering their attempt to replicate his Ant-Man shrinking technology. Believing the technology would be dangerous if replicated, Pym vows to hide it for as long as he lives. In the present day,efn|The events of the film are set a few months after the events of "Avengers: Age of Ultron" (2015).<ref name="/Film65Things1" /> Pym's estranged daughter, Hope van Dyne, and former protégé, Darren Cross, have forced him out of his company, Pym Technologies. Cross is close to perfecting a shrinking suit of his own, the Yellowjacket, which horrifies Pym.

Upon his release from prison, well-meaning thief Scott Lang moves in with his old cellmate, Luis. Lang visits his daughter Cassie unannounced and is chastised by his former wife Maggie and her police-detective fiancé, Paxton, for not providing child support. Unable to hold down a job because of his criminal record, Lang agrees to join Luis' crew and commit a burglary. Lang breaks into a house and cracks its safe, but only finds what he believes to be an old motorcycle suit, which he takes home. After trying the suit on, Lang accidentally shrinks himself to the size of an insect. Terrified by the experience, he returns the suit to the house, but is arrested on the way out. Pym, the homeowner, visits Lang in jail and smuggles the suit into his cell to help him break out.

Pym, who manipulated Lang through an unknowing Luis into stealing the suit as a test, wants Lang to become the new Ant-Man to steal the Yellowjacket from Cross. Having been spying on Cross after discovering his intentions, Hope and Pym train Lang to fight and to control ants. While Hope harbors resentment towards Pym about her mother Janet's death, he reveals that Janet, known as the Wasp, disappeared into a subatomic Quantum Realm while disabling a Soviet nuclear missile in 1987. Pym warns Lang that he could suffer a similar fate if he overrides his suit's regulator. They send him to steal a device that will aid their heist from the Avengers' headquarters, where he briefly fights Sam Wilson.

Cross perfects the Yellowjacket and hosts an unveiling ceremony at Pym Technologies' headquarters. Lang, along with his crew and a swarm of flying ants, infiltrates the building during the event, sabotages the company's servers, and plants explosives. When he attempts to steal the Yellowjacket, he, along with Pym and Hope, are captured by Cross, who intends to sell both the Yellowjacket and Ant-Man suits to Hydra. Lang breaks free and he and Hope dispatch most of the Hydra agents, though one flees with a vial of Cross' particles and Pym is shot. Lang pursues Cross, while the explosives detonate, imploding the building as Pym and Hope escape.

Cross dons the Yellowjacket and attacks Lang before Lang is arrested by Paxton. Cross takes Cassie hostage to lure Lang into another fight. Lang overrides the regulator and shrinks to subatomic size to penetrate Cross' suit and sabotage it to shrink uncontrollably, seemingly killing Cross. Lang disappears into the Quantum Realm but manages to reverse the effects and returns to the macroscopic world. Out of gratitude for Lang's heroism, Paxton covers for Lang to keep him out of prison. Seeing that Lang survived and returned from the Quantum Realm, Pym wonders if his wife is alive as well. Later, Lang meets up with Luis, who tells him that Wilson is looking for him.

In a mid-credits scene, Pym shows Hope a new Wasp prototype suit and offers it to her. In a post-credits scene, Steve Rogers and Wilson have Bucky Barnes in their custody. Unable to contact Tony Stark because of "the accords",efn|As depicted in "Captain America: Civil War" (2016) Wilson mentions that he knows someone who can help.

####Ant-Man and the Wasp####
####Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania####
####Apex (film)####
In the not-too-distant future, Thomas Malone, an ex-cop, is a prisoner serving a life sentence for a crime he didn't commit. He's offered a chance at freedom if he wins a secret game on a private island as "prey" to five ultra-rich "hunters." One by one, the hunters turn on each other due to egos and grudges. The final hunter alive, Samuel, the "Apex Warrior," gets outwitted in the end. Malone wins his freedom so he can see his family again.

####Appleseed Alpha####

In the 22nd century, after a devastating world war, veterans Deunan Knute and Briareos are living in the ruins of New York doing jobs for a cyborg despot named Two Horns, with Deunan hoping that once they've paid off their debt to him for fixing Briareos' war injuries, they can go find the legendary utopic city of Olympus, though Briareos is more pessimistic. However, whenever they are close to finishing a job, they are sabotaged.

One day, while eliminating rogue combat drones, Deunan and Briareos meet Olson, a cybernetics-equipped soldier, and a young girl named Iris. Though initially reserved around each other, Olson discovers that Two Horns' mechanic Mattews has been deliberately crippling Briareos' systems to keep him and Deunan under Two Horns' thumb. Soon after, two cyborgs named Talos and Nyx, who are trailing Olson and Iris, appear, forcing Deunan and Briareos to depart with their new friends. After questioning Two Horns, and then attempting to kill him, Talos puts Deunan and Briareos on his target list as well. After recovering, Two Horns follows them to capture Iris and use her as a bargaining chip against Talos.

As they travel together, Iris and Olson gradually reveal that they are from Olympus, on a mission to dispose of leftover weapons from the war. Talos is also an agent from Olympus who has developed a messiah complex and wants to use Iris to take control of these weapons. When Two Horns finds and attacks them, Iris and Olson are captured by Talos. After brutally extracting the location of a prototype superweapon from Olson's memories, Talos murders him and takes Iris with him. Briareos and Deunan find Olson's body, recover the information they need and follow Talos and Iris to the weapon's location.

In a secret underground bunker, Talos activates the superweapon - a giant, heavily armed mobile fortress - using Iris' retinal pattern. Deunan and Briareos fight their way into the complex, supported by Two Horns, who is now out for revenge against Talos, and Mattews, who presents Deunan with a power amor suit. Briareos duels and kills Nyx, but Deunan is too late to save Iris; the fortress makes its way to the surface, but instead of following Talos' commands, it is hardwired on a suicide bombing mission against New York. With Two Horns and Briareos' help, Deunan boards the superwalker and kills Talos, but in order to destroy the weapon, Briareos must snipe its power core. To prevent countermeasures, Iris remains aboard and evicts Deunan from the fortress after revealing that she is a bioroid specifically created for this mission. Briareos takes the shot, destroying both the fortress and Iris inside it.

After regrouping, Deunan and Briareos depart for Olympus, with Two Horns absolving them of their debts and Mattews gifting them the restored exosuit. Unknown to them, they have been closely observed by Olympus Officer Hitomi, Iris' human template. When asked whether Deunan and Briareos should be brought to Olympus for their help, Hitomi explains instead: "They're like apple seeds. Wherever they go, hope will sprout. Others who are worthy are sure to follow."

####Aquarium of the Dead####
####Armageddon (1998 film)####
A massive meteor shower destroys the orbiting Space Shuttle Atlantis, before entering the atmosphere and bombarding New York City. The meteors were pushed out of the asteroid belt by a rogue comet that also jarred loose a Texas-sized asteroid that will impact Earth in 18 days, causing an event that will wipe out all life on the planet. NASA devises a plan to have a deep hole drilled into the asteroid, into which they will insert and detonate a nuclear bomb to destroy the asteroid.

They recruit Harry Stamper, a third-generation oil driller and owner of his own oil drilling company. Harry agrees to help, but on the condition that he bring in his own team to do the drilling. He picks his best employees for the job: Chick Chapel, his best friend and right-hand man; geologists Rockhound and Oscar Choice; and drillers Bear Curlene, Freddie Noonan, Max Lennert, and A.J. Frost (who has been dating Harry's daughter Grace despite Harry's objections). Over twelve days, they are trained to become astronauts with astronaut Willie Sharp, who will pilot "Freedom" &mdash; one of the two shuttles to fly to the asteroid, the other being the "Independence". Before leaving, Chick apologizes to his ex-wife for wronging her and sees his son, who is unaware of his parentage. Grace accepts A.J.'s marriage proposal, much to Harry's reluctant dismay; she later has her father promise to return home safe with her fiancé.

Following the destruction of Shanghai by another meteor strike, word of the massive asteroid becomes public to the world. Both shuttles take off without incident and dock with the Russian Space Station Mir to take on fuel. During fueling, a spark causes a fire. A.J. and Russian Cosmonaut Lev Andropov manage to board "Independence" before the space station is destroyed.

Approaching the asteroid, "Independence" is damaged by debris and crashes, killing all on board except Lev, Bear, and A.J. They embark in the shuttle's Armadillo to find the "Freedom" crew, which lands 26 miles from its intended landing site. When the drilling goes slower than predicted, Sharp reports to Mission Control that it is unlikely the team will reach the depth necessary to destroy the asteroid before "Zero Barrier", the point after which detonating the rock will not save Earth. The President of the United States decides to remotely detonate the bomb from Earth immediately, which will cause total mission failure. Sharp and Harry have a vicious argument, but agree to defuse the bomb and work together after Harry promises Sharp that he will accomplish the mission. They make progress on drilling, but a missed gas pocket causes the Armadillo and Max to be blown into space. Just as Harry, NASA, and the world believe the mission to be a failure, while another meteor devastates Paris, A.J. and the others arrive in the second Armadillo.

A.J. succeeds in drilling the hole to the required depth, but a rock storm kills Gruber and damages the remote detonator, forcing someone to stay behind and manually detonate the bomb. They draw straws; the responsibility falls upon A.J. Harry takes him down to the asteroid's surface, and disconnects A.J.'s air hose, forces him into the shuttle's air lock and tells A.J. that he is the son Harry never had and he would be proud to have him marry Grace. Using the Armadillo, Harry tearfully gives Grace his blessing to marry A.J., and Grace says that she is proud to be his daughter.

After some difficulty, "Freedom" takes off, but then a second blowout causes Harry to lose his grip on the detonator. Just before Zero Barrier, he detonates the bomb and saves the planet. The astronauts land on Earth safely. A.J. and Grace are reunited and Chick reconciles with his ex-wife and estranged son. Later, A.J. and Grace are married with the portraits of Harry and the others lost on the mission present "in memoriam".

####Army of Frankensteins####
####ARQ (film)####
Renton wakes up beside his former lover, Hannah. Three men break into his bedroom and, when Renton breaks his neck while escaping, he wakes with a start where he was just a moment earlier. The men break in once again and bind him and Hannah to chairs in another room. Their leader, 'Father', says he represents a rebel group known as the Bloc and demands Renton surrender money or "scrips" that he had stolen from their rival organization, the Torus Corporation.

Father and the two other men, Sonny and Brother, leave to eat in another room and Renton is able to cut himself and Hannah loose. He explains that he built the ARQ, a working perpetual motion machine, while working for Torus and then stole the machine. Hannah urges him to comply with the men, but he tries to escape and dies. He wakes with a start back in bed with Hannah, only to relive the same scenario. This time, after freeing the two of them, he asks Hannah to help poison the intruders with cyanide gas. The plan fails when Hannah reveals that she is a member of the Bloc. Renton surrenders the scrips and then Sonny shoots him.

In the next iteration, Renton questions Hannah about her past before freeing her. She admits that she grew to resent him after he abandoned her to Torus, who tortured her. Though he does not trust Hannah, Renton and Hannah work out a deal where they will split the scrips after using the cyanide gas to force Father and his group to stand down. Once they have the three men captured, though, Renton reneges on the deal, demanding that Hannah abandon the Bloc and come with him. Hannah accidentally shoots Renton in an ensuing scuffle. When Renton and Hannah wake up together, she can now recall the previous iteration. Renton theorizes that the ARQ is causing a time loop. He also realizes that the ARQ does not function as a perpetual motion machine, but in fact generates the time loop as a way to continue using the energy from the gasoline used to catalyze the process, making it seem as if it is generating endless energy. Eventually, Sonny reveals himself as a Torus mercenary and kills everyone.

Renton and Hannah agree in the next iteration that they must keep the ARQ from Torus. They convince Father to help them stop Sonny but, once they do, Brother shoots Renton, not realizing that Sonny works for Torus. In the next iteration, Sonny becomes aware of the time loop and immediately kills Father and Brother. When Sonny overpowers them, Renton sacrifices himself to prevent Sonny from acquiring the ARQ.

In the next iteration, Sonny saves Cuz, another mercenary who was fatally electrocuted by the ARQ at the start of every previous loop, then kills Father and Brother. Renton and Hannah poison Sonny and Cuz with the cyanide. Before dying, Sonny sets a trap that kills Hannah, prompting Renton to allow the next iteration to begin. Everyone is now aware of the time loop, and Sonny and Cuz take everyone hostage. After Sonny forces Renton to disable the machine, Father and Brother die in the confusion of a blackout. Renton and Hannah briefly escape and realize the time loop is localized to the house. Renton decides to go back inside to destroy the machine and Hannah goes back with him.

After they kill Cuz, who turns out to have been Hannah's torturer, Sonny restarts the ARQ, only to be killed himself. An interrupted video message and the ARQ's logs reveal a second, outer time loop: after every nine time loops, all of their memories are reset due to the ARQ restarting. They have unknowingly repeated the same nine loops thousands of times. Realizing they are on their ninth loop, Renton and Hannah leave a desperate message to themselves, hoping future iterations can get the ARQ to the Bloc before Torus's reinforcements arrive. After a robot breaks through and kills them, Hannah wakes with a gasp.

####Assassin's Creed (film)####
In 1492 Andalusia, during the Granada War, Aguilar de Nerha is accepted into the Assassin Brotherhood and assigned to protect Prince Ahmed de Granada from the Templar Order. In 1986, adolescent Callum "Cal" Lynch finds his mother killed by his father, Joseph, a modern-day Assassin. Gunmen led by Alan Rikkin, CEO of the Templars' Abstergo Foundation, arrive to capture Joseph, who persuades his son to escape.

In 2016, Cal is sentenced to death for murdering a pimp, but Abstergo fakes his execution and takes him to their research facility in Madrid. He is told the Templars are searching for an Apple of Eden, one of many artifacts built by a long-lost civilization, in order to eliminate violence by using the Apple's code to control humanity's free will. Sofia, Alan's daughter and the head scientist, reveals that Cal is a descendant of Aguilar, the last person confirmed to be in possession of the Apple. She puts Cal in the Animus, a machine which allows him to relive (and the scientists to observe) Aguilar's genetic memories, so that Abstergo can learn the Apple's whereabouts.

In 1492, Aguilar and his partner, Maria, are deployed to rescue Ahmed, who has been kidnapped by the Templar Grand Master Tomas de Torquemada, to coerce Ahmed's father, Sultan Muhammad XII, to surrender the Apple. Aguilar and Maria intercept the Templars, but are overpowered and captured by Torquemada's enforcer, Ojeda. Cal is quickly pulled out of the Animus by Sofia.

Cal encounters other Assassin descendants held captive at the facility, most of whom are suspicious of his motives, with the exceptions of Lin, a descendant of 16th-century Chinese Assassin Shao Jun; and Moussa, a descendant of 18th-century Haitian Assassin Baptiste. Cal begins experiencing hallucinations, dubbed "the Bleeding Effect", of both Aguilar and Joseph. Cal and Sofia build a rapport during their sessions; she confides that her mother was likewise murdered by an Assassin, sharing his hatred of the Brotherhood .

Back in the Animus, Aguilar and Maria are scheduled for execution at an auto da fe but he manages to free them, leading to a rooftop chase in which they escape through a "Leap of Faith". Cal's mind reacts violently to the session and he is temporarily paralyzed. When Cal learns that Joseph is also at the facility, he confronts him over his mother's death. Joseph informs Cal that the Bleeding Effect will allow him to gain Aguilar's skills. He also reveals that Cal's mother was an Assassin, and she chose to die by Joseph's hand rather than be forced into the Animus. Unconvinced, Cal vows to destroy the Assassins by finding the Apple. Meanwhile, Alan is pressed by a Templar Elder, Ellen Kaye, to shut down the multibillion-dollar Animus Project because they have already "won ... people no longer care about their civil liberties ... they're content to follow", leading Sofia to question her father's true intentions.

Reaffirmed by his encounter with Joseph, Cal willingly enters the Animus. Aguilar and Maria ambush a meeting between Muhammad and Torquemada; they kill Torquemada's men and recover the Apple, but Ojeda captures Maria. She chooses to die to protect the Apple and stabs herself on Ojeda's blade, allowing Aguilar to kill Ojeda and escape through another Leap; the force of which causes the Animus to violently malfunction. Aguilar later gives the Apple to Christopher Columbus, who vows to take it to his grave. When Moussa and the modern Assassin prisoners start a riot in order to escape, Alan orders the facility purged. Abstergo security kills Joseph and most of the other prisoners. Cal stands in the Animus chamber and is met with projections of his ancestors, including Aguilar, Arno Dorian, Joseph and his mother, while Sofia glimpses the projection of an Assassin resembling her. Persuaded by his mother, Cal embraces his Assassin heritage and, having fully assimilated Aguilar's abilities, joins Moussa and Lin in escaping the facility.

Having retrieved the Apple from Columbus' burial vault, the Templars convene at a ceremony in their London sanctuary to celebrate their triumph. Inside the sanctuary, a disillusioned Sofia meets Cal, who has come to take the Apple, and she reluctantly allows him to act. Cal retrieves the Apple, killing Alan in the process. As Sofia vows revenge, the Assassins depart, swearing once again to protect the Apple from the Templars.

####Assault on Dome 4####
####Atlantic Rim (film)####
Following the mysterious disappearance of an oil rig and a reconnaissance mini-submarine in the Gulf of Mexico, scientist Dr. Margaret Adams initiates the Armada Program, which consists of giant robots designed for deep sea rescue. The three robots — piloted by Red, Tracy and Jim — dive nearly 800 fathoms to the sea bed, where they not only discover the mangled remains of the oil rig, but encounter the monster that brought it down. Red pursues the monster, against orders from Admiral Hadley, prompting the Admiral to order every naval fleet on the East Coast to converge on the oil rig's site. Red emerges on a beach to warn the bystanders to leave the area; he is suddenly attacked from behind by the monster as their fight takes its toll on the city. An F-18 Hornet piloted by Spitfire assists Red in taking the monster down. Red, however, is arrested for disobeying a direct order. He is locked in solitary confinement until he is briefly released by Adm. Hadley and later given a medal of honor for his heroic actions, before serving the rest of his confinement.

Later, Adm. Hadley is informed by Sheldon Geise of a top-secret sonar program that discovered the monsters, which are hundreds of millions of years old and lay their eggs on a mixture of crude oil and saltwater. Two eggs have been discovered, one of which hatched into the monster that Red and Spitfire killed. Adm. Hadley orders a search for the other egg, but he is too late, as it has already hatched, with the second monster, much bigger than the first, feeding on the corpse of the first monster and destroying a whole naval fleet before wreaking havoc on the city. As the monster attacks the naval base, Tracy and Jim scramble to spring Red out of solitary before they are picked up by Lt. Wexler. Meanwhile, Geise informs Adm. Hadley that the President has authorized a nuclear strike on the monster, but Adm. Hadley defies that decision and orders everyone to evacuate the base. The monster retreats after a Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit drops a payload on it. Adm. Hadley is later informed that another egg has hatched off the Atlantic Coast.

Dr. Adams gives the trio special "halo" headbands that neurally link them to their robots, increasing their reflexes by using their direct body movements instead of joysticks. The system's downside is the pilot feeling pain for every damage the robot takes. After a crash course on the new system, the trio fly their robots to New York City to battle the monster. Following numerous refusals by Adm. Hadley to launch a nuclear strike, Geise orders the "USS Virginia" to launch a warhead. Red intercepts the missile and jams its frequency, saving the city from a nuclear holocaust. In retaliation, Geise threatens to shut down the robots, but is quickly subdued by Lt. Wexler, despite shooting the Admiral in the arm. During the battle, Tracy loses consciousness when her neural level goes critical. Jim takes Tracy to safety while Red grabs the warhead and the monster before flying them to the atmosphere. He then kicks the monster to deep space, detonating the warhead in the process and sending him crashing back to Earth. The trio and Adm. Hadley celebrate by heading to the local bar for some tequila shots.

####Avatar (2009 film)####
####Avatar 3####
####Avatar 4####
####Avatar: The Way of Water####
####The Avengers (2012 film)####

The Asgardian Loki encounters the Other, the leader of an extraterrestrial race known as the Chitauri. In exchange for retrieving the Tesseract,efn|Producer Kevin Feige stated that the Tesseract is based on the Cosmic Cube from the Marvel Comics.<ref name="movieline" /> After "Thor: The Dark World" (2013), he stated that it was also the Space Stone.<ref name="CraveOnline3" /> a powerful energy source of unknown potential, the Other promises Loki an army with which he can subjugate Earth. Nick Fury, director of the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D., arrives at a remote research facility, where physicist Dr. Erik Selvig is leading a team experimenting on the Tesseract. The Tesseract suddenly activates and opens a wormhole, allowing Loki to reach Earth. Loki steals the Tesseract and uses his scepter to enslave Selvig and other agents, including Clint Barton, to aid him.

In response, Fury reactivates the "Avengers Initiative". Agent Natasha Romanoff heads to Kolkata to recruit Dr. Bruce Banner to trace the Tesseract through its gamma radiation emissions. Fury approaches Steve Rogers to retrieve the Tesseract, and Agent Phil Coulson visits Tony Stark to have him check Selvig's research. Loki is in Stuttgart, where Barton steals the iridium needed to stabilize the Tesseract's power, leading to a confrontation with Rogers, Stark, and Romanoff that ends with Loki's surrender. While Loki gets escorted to S.H.I.E.L.D., his adoptive brother Thor arrives and frees him, hoping to convince him to abandon his plan and return to Asgard. Stark and Rogers intervene and Loki is taken to S.H.I.E.L.D.'s flying aircraft carrier, the Helicarrier, where he is imprisoned.

The Avengers become divided over how to approach Loki and the revelation that S.H.I.E.L.D. plans to harness the Tesseract to develop powerful weapons as a deterrent against hostile extraterrestrials. As they argue, Loki's agents attack the Helicarrier, and the stress causes Banner to transform into the Hulk. Stark and Rogers work to restart the damaged engine, and Thor attempts to stop the Hulk's rampage. Romanoff knocks Barton unconscious, breaking Loki's mind control. Loki escapes after killing Coulson and Fury uses Coulson's death to motivate the Avengers into working as a team. Loki uses the Tesseract and a wormhole generator Selvig built to open a wormhole above Stark Tower to the Chitauri fleet in space, launching his invasion.

Rogers, Stark, Romanoff, Barton, Thor, and the Hulk rally in defense of New York City, and together the Avengers battle the Chitauri. The Hulk beats Loki into submission. Romanoff makes her way to the generator, where Selvig, freed from Loki's mind control, reveals that Loki's scepter can shut down the generator. Fury's superiors from the World Security Council attempt to end the invasion by launching a nuclear missile at Midtown Manhattan. Stark intercepts the missile and takes it through the wormhole toward the Chitauri fleet. The missile detonates, destroying the Chitauri mothership and disabling their forces on Earth. Stark's suit loses power and he goes into freefall, but the Hulk saves him, while Romanoff uses Loki's scepter to close the wormhole. In the aftermath, Thor returns with Loki and the Tesseract to Asgard, where Loki will face their justice.

In a mid-credits scene, the Other confers with his masterefn|Feige confirmed that the "master" in the post-credits scene is Thanos.<ref name="EmpirePodcast" /><!-- NOTE! Per WP:EASTEREGG, Please see that this footnote DOES INDICATE THIS IS THANOS, as he is not identified in the film --> about the failed attack on Earth. <!-- Please do NOT add the Shawarma post-credit scene here per WP:FILMPLOT on the talk page. Please see the talk page discussion for more, or to voice your opinion on the matter. -->

####Avengers Grimm####
Snow White and Prince Charming's kingdom is under attack by Rumpelstiltskin's brainwashed army of thralls. After killing the prince, Rumple confronts Snow in the throne room; he wants access to the Magic Mirror, which can act as a portal to a land without magic, where he can reign unchallenged. A fight ensues,  resulting in them falling through the mirror's portal and into the other world. Later, Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty and Rapunzel arrive, noting the time that's passed since the battle, and how the other world's time moves much faster than theirs; they are joined by Red Riding Hood, who is tracking down Rumpelstiltskin's right-hand man, the Wolf. Having survived the battle, the Wolf attacks them; he tackles Red into the mirror, shattering it and embedding a shard into her shoulder. The princesses follow after them.

They arrive in L.A., but find Red and the Wolf are nowhere to be found. They attempt to search for Snow White, only to be met with hostility at a bar; they are quickly rescued by Snow, who has become a freedom fighter in the six months that have passed. She takes them to her hideout, explaining that Rumpelstiltskin has managed to gain some power by becoming mayor Heart; he continues to brainwash the populace in secret, rebuilding his army of thralls. The princesses tell Snow about the Magic Mirror shard Red has, learning that it's the only way to get back home. Snow hands them fashion magazines, telling them to blend in.

Red continues tracking the Wolf, but ends up incurring the wrath of local gang leader "Iron" John; John believes in order, and doesn't tolerate chaos.  Red, Wolf, and John are all arrested, though Red escapes and is eventually rescued in an ensuing battle by her friends.  Mayor Heart pays John and Wolf a visit, freeing wolf and promising John "order"; he transforms John into an iron being befitting his moniker. They manage to track down Snow's group, resulting in a fight in which Red and Snow are captured by Heart.  He brainwashes Red into a thrall, as the princesses are immune, and tries seducing Snow into being his queen when he takes over the world.  Rejected, Heart uses his magic to amplify the shard's power and opens a portal back to fairy tale land.

Cinderella fights with Red, managing to get Red to remember her true self.  Iron John sees that Heart lied to him and shatters the shard, sacrificing himself to shut the portal. Snow and Heart fight again.  Heart dies, when Snow impales both of them with an icicle, while she becomes frozen as a result of her powers, sparing her from otherwise certain death.  The princesses and Red decide to find another way to get home and help with Snow's revival.

####Avengers: Age of Ultron####

In the Eastern European country of Sokovia, the Avengers—Tony Stark, Thor, Bruce Banner, Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, and Clint Barton—raid a Hydra facility commanded by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker, who has experimented on humans using the scepter previously wielded by Loki. They meet two of Strucker's test subjects—twins Pietro (who has superhuman speed) and Wanda Maximoff (who has telepathic and telekinetic abilities)—and apprehend Strucker, while Stark retrieves Loki's scepter.

Stark and Banner discover an artificial intelligence within the scepter's gem, and secretly decide to use it to complete Stark's "Ultron" global defense program. The unexpectedly sentient Ultron, believing he must eradicate humanity to save Earth, eliminates Stark's A.I. J.A.R.V.I.S. and attacks the Avengers at their headquarters. Escaping with the scepter, Ultron uses the resources in Strucker's Sokovia base to upgrade his rudimentary body and build an army of robot drones. Having killed Strucker, he recruits the Maximoffs, who hold Stark responsible for their parents' deaths by his company's weapons, and goes to the base of arms dealer Ulysses Klaue in Johannesburg to get vibranium. The Avengers attack Ultron and the Maximoffs, but Wanda subdues them with haunting visions, causing Banner to turn into the Hulk and rampage until Stark stops him with his anti-Hulk armor.<!-- Please note the term "Hulkbuster" is not used in the film -->efn|While the name of the anti-Hulk armor, usually referred to as the "Hulkbuster" in comic books, is not spoken in the film, its deployment system and containment cell are code-named "Veronica".<ref name=HulkbusterOfficial /><ref name="Veronica" /> Director Joss Whedon said the name alludes to the character Veronica Lodge from Archie Comics: "I just decided to call it Veronica because [Bruce Banner] used to be in love with a girl named Betty and Veronica is the opposite of that," making the connection to Archie's love interest, Betty Cooper.<ref name="Veronica" />

A worldwide backlash over the resulting destruction, and the fears Wanda's hallucinations incited, send the team into hiding at Barton's farmhouse. Thor departs to consult with Dr. Erik Selvig on the apocalyptic future he saw in his hallucination, while Nick Fury arrives and encourages the team to form a plan to stop Ultron. In Seoul, Ultron uses Loki's scepter to enslave the team's friend Helen Cho. They use her synthetic-tissue technology, vibranium, and the scepter's gem to craft a new body. As Ultron uploads himself into the body, Wanda is able to read his mind; discovering his plan for human extinction, the Maximoffs turn against Ultron. Rogers, Romanoff, and Barton fight Ultron and retrieve the synthetic body, but Ultron captures Romanoff. The Avengers fight among themselves when Stark and Banner secretly upload J.A.R.V.I.S.—who is still working after hiding from Ultron inside the Internet—into the synthetic body.

Thor returns to help activate the body, based on his vision that the gem on its brow is the Mind Stone, one of the six Infinity Stones, the most powerful objects in existence. This "Vision" earns their trust by being worthy of lifting Thor's hammer, Mjölnir. Vision and the Maximoffs go with the Avengers to Sokovia, where Ultron has used the remaining vibranium to build a machine to lift a large part of the capital city skyward, intending to crash it into the ground to cause global extinction. Banner rescues Romanoff, who awakens the Hulk for the battle. The Avengers fight Ultron's army while Fury arrives in a Helicarrier with Maria Hill, James Rhodes, and S.H.I.E.L.D. agents to evacuate civilians.

Pietro dies when he shields Barton from gunfire, and a vengeful Wanda abandons her post to destroy Ultron's primary body, which allows one of his drones to activate the machine. The city plummets, but Stark and Thor overload the machine and shatter the landmass. In the aftermath, the Hulk, unwilling to endanger Romanoff by being with her, departs in a Quinjet, while Vision confronts and destroys Ultron's last remaining body. Later, with the Avengers having established a new base run by Fury, Hill, Cho, and Selvig, Thor returns to Asgard to learn more about the forces he suspects have manipulated recent events. As Stark leaves and Barton retires, Rogers and Romanoff prepare to train new Avengers: Rhodes, Vision, Sam Wilson, and Wanda.

In a mid-credits scene, Thanos dons a gauntlet<!-- Note: the gauntlet is not named in the film -->efn|The Infinity Gauntlet seen at the end of the film is not the same as the one seen in Odin's vault in Asgard in "Thor" (2011).<ref name="Gauntlet" /> The Asgard Gauntlet is revealed to be a fake in "Thor: Ragnarok" (2017).<ref name="FakeGauntlet" /> and vows to retrieve the Infinity Stones himself.

####Avengers: Endgame####
####Avengers: Infinity War####
####Awake (2021 film)####
Long plot|date=January 2023<!--- massively bloated 910-word "synopsis" versus 400–700 word norm --->
Former U.S. Army medic and recovering addict, Jill Adams, works as a security guard at a local college where she steals drugs from the research lab to sell. After her shift, she picks up her children, Noah and Matilda, from their grandmother, whose name is Doris.

While driving, their car loses power and is hit by another car, sending it into a lake. Matilda drowns but is revived by a police officer who reveals that everything that uses electricity is malfunctioning. At the hospital, they learn that the coma patients have awoken. They return home, but Jill, Noah, and Doris are unable to sleep, and Noah says he sees shooting stars which Jill explains are satellites. On her way to work, Jill observes that the whole neighborhood is awake. There,  psychiatrist Dr. Murphy explains that people appear to be no longer able to fall asleep. Thus, they will soon suffer from the symptoms of sleep deprivation. The only known exception is an old woman, who is being studied at a military base called The Hub, in the hopes of finding a cure for the condition. Jill remembers that Matilda can also fall asleep and she rushes home to find her, fearing that she will be taken to be studied/experimented on to find the cure as well, only to discover that she's at church. The pastor gives a sermon about Matilda being a beacon of hope and people want to sacrifice her. Jill and Noah arrive to get her but the churchgoers (aside from Doris and the pastor) does not want to give up Matilda. After an officer shoots and kills the doctor with Jill, the people panic and Doris is able to hide Matilda away. Jill, Matilda, and Noah flee to the woods. They rush to a garage to find a car. Jill leaves the two outside while she enters the garage. Jill takes a car after hiding from two men and picks up Noah and Matilda. Noah tells Jill that they should bring Matilda to The Hub and Jill eventually reluctantly agrees.

They reach a library and Noah finds a map. Noah and Jill use the map to find out how to get to The Hub. While doing so, an escaped prisoner steals their car with Matilda in it. Other prisoners threaten Jill and Noah but they are saved by the man who stole their car, Dodge. They discover plane wreckage and Noah and Dodge look for items they might need. Jill teaches Matilda to drive because she's the only one who has the energy to and to prepare her for the possibility of living alone when everyone else has died from sleep deprivation. While driving, they are attacked by people but manage to escape.

They reach The Hub. Dodge offers to stay but Jill gives him the car and tells him to leave. Jill splits up with her children and enters The Hub. She sneaks in disguised as a lab worker to find the other woman who can sleep. She finds her in very ill condition. The woman states she should have been dead months ago. Jill is convinced there is no cure so she begs the woman to raise Matilda. Jill is seen by Murphy and lies about wanting to be there to help. Jill asks if there is a cure and Murphy replies that it has been six days and there is no cure and that the lab workers have been using a drug that helps the brain function to keep them going but it is only temporary and causes neurological damage. The army confronts Jill and her children and Matilda tearfully admits she can sleep.

The next day, Matilda asks if she can help and the doctor responds that they need to find out what makes her special. She sees an ape who has been experimented on and sees that the ape doesn't fall asleep when given anesthetic gas. The doctor says that chimps were the only animals besides humans that can't sleep due to their biological closeness to us. They test the gas on Matilda and she falls asleep. Jill is handcuffed in a room where she experiences delirium.

Murphy asks Jill why her daughter can sleep and Jill begs Murphy to let Matilda go but she insists that humanity's survival depends on her. She explains that the sleep disorder was caused by the same solar flare that knocked out power affecting humans' (and chimps') brains. Dodge is taken as a guard and is given stimulants. The woman who can sleep goes into cardiac arrest and dies. Jill hallucinates that Noah is threatening to kill her. The real Noah is taken away to see if his brain is different than his sister's.

The soldiers then go insane and begin shooting everyone. Jill goes to rescue her daughter and the two run off together. Noah is hallucinating and cuts a wire, electrocuting himself. Jill and Matilda try resuscitating him using a defibrillator but are unsuccessful. Noah suddenly wakes up the next morning, saying that he was dreaming. Noah tells Jill that she was right about not wanting to go to The Hub and that he knows she loves them and needs them. Matilda realizes the reason that she and Noah could sleep was because they had both temporarily died. They drown Jill in a lake. They resuscitate her and she awakens just as the camera zooms in on her eye and cuts to the credits.

####Babylon A.D.####
In a dystopian Russian mobster Gorsky (Depardieu) hires the mercenary Toorop (Diesel) to bring a young woman known only as Aurora (Thierry) from Asia to New York City. Gorsky gives Toorop a variety of weapons and a subdermally implanted UN passport. Toorop, the girl, and her guardian Sister Rebeka (Yeoh), travel from the Noelite Convent in Kyrgyzstan to reach New York via Russia.

Unlike in the technologically advanced U.S., war and terrorist activity have transformed Russia's cities into dangerous, overpopulated slums. The stress of humanity's situation causes Aurora to act out in strange ways and display clairvoyance abilities. On one such occasion, Aurora, seemingly for no reason, panics and runs from a crowded train station, just before it explodes in a terrorist attack.

The protagonists must also evade an unknown group of mercenaries claiming to have been sent by Aurora's supposedly dead father. Later, they board a submarine that carries refugees to Canada. To avoid satellite detection, the Captain of the submarine orders his crew to dive and he shoots some of the refugees still trying to get on board. Aurora, infuriated by the loss of life, operates the 30-year-old submarine without training. Sister Rebeka tells Toorop that Aurora could speak nineteen different languages by the age of two, and always seems to know things she has never learned. Three months before leaving with Toorop, she began acting differently. This occurred after a Noelite doctor administered a pill. The doctor told her to go to New York City and arranged for Toorop to escort them.

After arriving in Alaska with help from Toorop's associate Finn (Strong), the protagonists are attacked by weaponized drones. Toorop manages to destroy all the drones, but also gets wounded. These perils cause Finn to betray the group, so Toorop shoots him dead.

Once in Harlem, a news broadcast about the bombing of the Kyrgyzstan convent causes the group to realize there is more going on than they know. The Noelites have become a major new salvationist religion, which vast numbers of people cling to as the world spirals out of control. However, in private meetings, it is seen that their High Priestess (Charlotte Rampling) only desires power and uses invented miracles to court converts. Gorsky, working for the Noelites, had planted a tracking device in Toorop's passport and bombed the convent when he knew they were in the United States. The doctor who earlier saw Aurora examines her again in a hotel room. When he leaves, Aurora reveals (without being told) that she is pregnant with twins despite being a virgin.

Looking outside the hotel, Toorop sees Gorsky's men and the Noelite group, heavily armed and waiting for them on the street. The High Priestess calls Toorop and asks him to bring Aurora outside. Just before they take her away, Toorop changes his mind and starts a firefight with the two groups to get the two women to safety. Gorsky's men fire guided missiles at Toorop that track his subdermal passport. Rebeka gets killed defending Aurora, who in turn shoots Toorop, saying, "I need you to live." Toorop's clinical death causes the guided missile to go off target (missing Toorop) and explode near Aurora instead; she inexplicably survives.

Dr. Arthur Darquandier (Lambert Wilson) revives Toorop using advanced medical techniques, but several of Toorop's body parts are replaced with cybernetics to undo the damage of being dead for over two hours. Darquandier explains that when Aurora was a fetus, he implanted a supercomputer into her brain. It is also implied that the Noelite group had him create Aurora to become pregnant at a certain time to use her as a "virgin birth". After she was born, the Noelites hired Gorsky to kill Darquandier, but he failed. Darquandier remained "dead" until he found his daughter in Russia with Toorop.

Darquandier uses a machine to scan Toorop's memory to find out what Aurora said to him before and shortly after shooting him. In Toorop's memory, Aurora tells Toorop to "go home". Toorop and several of Darquandier's men leave the facility. En route to Darquandier's lab, Gorsky calls the High Priestess, demanding payment; during the subsequent videocall the High Priestess kills Gorsky by nuclear missile. The High Priestess confronts and kills Darquandier, but Toorop has already escaped. Toorop goes to his old house in the forest, finds Aurora, and takes her to a hospital, where, 6 months later, she dies after giving birth. Aurora was "designed to breed", not to live, so her death after childbirth was preprogrammed. Toorop takes care of her two children.

In a scene that is only present in the theatrical cut but was removed from the director's cut, the twins are shown to be one that looks like Aurora and the other like Toorop.

####Barb Wire (1996 film)####
In 2017, during the Second American Civil War, Barb Wire owns the Hammerhead, a nightclub in Steel Harbor, "the last free city" in a United States ravaged by the war. She earns cash as a mercenary and bounty hunter. Chief of Police Willis raids her club. Willis's target is fugitive Dr. Corrina 'Cora D' Devonshire, a former government scientist with information about a new bioweapon called Red Ribbon being developed by her former superiors in the Congressional Directorate. The Congressional Council has tasked Colonel Victor Pryzer with finding Dr. Devonshire so they can end the Second Civil War by releasing the virus on the United Front territories. Dr. Devonshire hopes to escape to Canada to make this information public.

Devonshire turns up at the Hammerhead. She is accompanied by Axel Hood, a "freedom fighter" Barb had loved at the outbreak of the war. The two were separated during the conflict. Axel tries to help Cora get to Canada. They try to find a contraband pair of contact lenses that would allow Cora to evade the retinal scan identification at the Steel Harbor airport. The lenses pass through the hands of several lowlifes before also ending up at Barb's nightclub.

Rather than give the lenses to Cora and Axel, Barb makes a deal with 'Big Fatso', the leader of a junkyard gang: Fatso wants the lenses, which are worth a fortune on the black market, and Barb wants a million dollars and an armed escort to the airport, where "she" plans to get on the plane to Canada. But Fatso double-crosses Barb; when Barb, Axel and Cora show up at the junkyard to make the swap, Colonel Pryzer and his storm troopers are also there, along with Chief of Police Willis. Willis makes a show of arresting Barb and Cora, but instead of putting handcuffs on Barb, he slips her a hand grenade. Barb uses the grenade to kill Fatso and cause enough confusion to allow Barb, Axel, Cora and Willis to pile into Barb's armored van and lead the Congressionals on a car chase, culminating in a hand-to-hand fight between Barb and Colonel Pryzer on a forklift suspended by crane above the harbor. Pryzer falls to his death while Barb escapes.

The party makes it to the airport, where Barb reveals she still has the contact lenses. She gives them to Cora, and Cora and Axel get on the plane to Canada while Willis and Barb remain on the rainswept tarmac.

####Batman: Hush (film)####
####Battle: Los Angeles####
On August 12, 2011, hostile alien spacecraft make landings off the coasts of large cities. Los Angeles is evacuated while Marines from Camp Pendleton arrive, including Staff Sergeant Michael Nantz, an Iraq War veteran. Nantz, who was to begin his retirement, is assigned to the 1st Platoon, Echo Company, of the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines.

Under the command of 2nd Lieutenant William Martinez, the platoon arrives at a forward operating base (FOB) established at Santa Monica Airport. The alien ground forces while using rapid dominance have no apparent air support, so the Air Force prepares a carpet bombing of the Santa Monica area, and the platoon is given 3 hours to retrieve civilians from a police station. As they advance through Los Angeles, they are ambushed and suffer multiple casualties. Nantz takes marines Imlay and Harris to look for Lenihan, who is missing from the group. After fighting off an alien, they team up with some soldiers from the Army's 40th Infantry Division and an Air Force intelligence Technical Sergeant, Elena Santos. At the police station, the makeshift platoon finds five civilians: veterinarian Michele, children Kirsten, Amy and Hector, and Hector's father Joe. A helicopter arrives to evacuate wounded marines, but cannot take on the weight of the civilians. During takeoff, it is destroyed by alien air units, killing Grayston, Guerrero, Lenihan, and Simmons.

The marines commandeer an abandoned transit bus for the evacuation. En route, they deduce that the alien air units are drones that target human radio transmissions; Santos reveals that her mission is to locate and destroy the aliens' command center controlling the drones. When their bus comes under attack by aliens on an elevated freeway, the marines rappel the group to street level. In the ensuing battle, marines Stavrou and Mottola and the remainder of the California Army National Guard soldiers are killed, while both Joe and Lieutenant Martinez are wounded fighting the aliens. Martinez uses his radio to attract the aliens, then detonates explosives, sacrificing himself for his team. Nantz is now in command of surviving personnel Santos, Imlay, Kerns, Lockett, Harris, Adukwu and the civilians, continuing their escape from the bombing zone. A scientist speculates on news media that the aliens seek Earth's water resources<!-- the scientist states that "H2O is only a liquid on this planet" - water = liquid and liquid = water, even in this context the two are the same thing --> for fuel while exterminating the human population.

The planned carpet bombing fails to materialize. Reaching the FOB, the marines find it destroyed and the military in retreat from the city. The marines plan to escort the civilians to an alternate extraction point. When Joe dies from his wounds, Nantz comforts Hector. Lockett confronts Nantz regarding his brother, a Marine who, with four others, was killed during Nantz's last tour. They come to peace when Nantz explains that he continues to think of them, and recites each one's name, rank and serial number. Nantz motivates the group to move forward to honor their fallen comrades, including Joe for his bravery. They reach the extraction point and evacuate by a helicopter.

In flight, the chopper experiences a brief loss of power. Nantz theorizes that they are flying near the alien command center, transmitting intense radio messages to its drones. He orders his unit to accompany the civilians while he stays to reconnoiter the area, but his fighters all join him. Searching through sewers, they confirm the presence of a large alien vessel. Kerns radios in to request missiles, which Nantz manually directs using a laser designator while the others defend his position. Kerns is killed when a drone homes in on his radio, but the marines succeed in guiding a missile to the command module, which is destroyed. The uncontrolled drones fall from the sky, and the alien ground forces retreat.

The remaining fighters—Nantz, Imlay, Lockett, Harris, Adukwu and Santos—are evacuated to a base in the Mojave Desert, where they are greeted as heroes. They are told that their successful plan has been has been transmitted to the militaries battling alien forces in 19 other cities, that Michele and the 3 children were rescued, and that they can now rest. Instead, they re-arm and depart to retake Los Angeles.

####Battle of Los Angeles (film)####
####Battle of the Damned####

A group of mercenaries led by Maj. Max Gatling are fleeing from a failed rescue attempt, having been hired by a rich industrialist to enter a zombie-infested city to rescue his daughter Jude. At the extraction point, Gatling tells the other survivor he is staying to find Jude and complete the mission. He eventually locates Jude and tells her he is going to get her out of the city, and she takes him to other survivors. There, he is introduced to the survivors including group leader Duke, Reese, Elvis, Lynn, and Anna. Jude is revealed to be in a relationship with Reese and pregnant with his child. The next day when Gatling, Jude, and the others go out to retrieve gasoline from a gas station, Gatling attempts to get Jude out of the city by force when she refuses to go without the others. However, he is stopped by the others and left for dead. After discovering Jude is pregnant, Reese rushes to Gatling's aid so that Jude can be taken out of the city. At this point it is revealed that not only is Jude's father some rich industrialist, but he is also the one who caused the zombie pandemic. While returning to the stronghold to get Jude, Gatling and Reese discover a band of prototype non-programmed robots. Gatling reprograms the robots and proceeds to the stronghold. When it is revealed that the city is to be firebombed, Gatling and all of the survivors make preparations to escape.

On the day of the escape, Gatling, Jude, the survivors, and the robots shoot down and kill many zombies along the way. When taking defensive positions while being attacked at a junkyard, Duke ditches them all and hides away. The robots also malfunction and one begins to attack Gatling. Gatling destroys the robot, and the rest of them reboot. Gatling, Jude, Reese, and the remaining survivors escape the junkyard in a car being pushed by the remaining robots. Duke is left behind and eaten by zombies. Gatling and the others then arrive at a car parking complex and go underground while the robots hold back the zombies. Once the Zombies start swarming the car park, Gatling and the others struggle to fight them off. Gatling finds that one of the robots is still functioning and he sends it to find Jude.

As the firebombing starts and reaches the complex, Gatling, Jude, and Reese jump into a partly flooded level of the complex to escape the fire. Once the firebombing ceases, Jude and Reese leave the complex, and all of the city is shown to be entirely destroyed. They meet up with Gatling, who reveals to Reese that his mission is not only to take Jude home, but to kill anybody that can whistle-blow on the outbreak. But knowing that Jude and Reese are expecting, Gatling decides to let Reese live and the three of them leave together with the robot, having survived, who Gatling asks to get him a coffee.

####Battlefield Earth (film)####
####Battleship (film)####
In 2005, potentially habitable "Planet G" is discovered, and in 2006, a communications array to reach any extraterrestrial life is built in Oahu. There, Alex Hopper is arrested while attempting to impress Sam Shane, daughter of Admiral Terrance Shane. Alex’s brother, Commander Stone Hopper, forces Alex to join the U.S. Navy. Six years later, Alex is a lieutenant aboard the USS|John Paul Jones|DDG-53|6 and in a relationship with Sam, a physical therapist working with wounded veterans. While Stone is a model officer commanding the USS|Sampson|DDG-102|6, the rebellious Alex is facing a disciplinary discharge.

During the 2012 RIMPAC exercise, five alien spacecraft arrive. Their communications ship hits a satellite and crashes through the Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong, while the others plunge into the waters off Hawaii. "Sampson", "John Paul Jones", and Japanese destroyer JDS ship|JDS|Myōkō||2 discover a floating structure that generates a force shield isolating the Hawaiian Islands and the three destroyers from the rest of the world, and jamming all radar and communications inside. Three alien warships surface and open fire; "Myōkō" is destroyed, "Sampson" is lost with all hands including Stone, and "John Paul Jones"’ command crew are killed, with Alex reluctantly assuming command. "John Paul Jones" disengages to recover "Myōkō"’s survivors, including Captain Yugi Nagata, while alien drones destroy Oahu’s military installations and roads, ignoring all targets that do not pose a threat.

Hiking near the communications array, Sam and retired U.S. Army lieutenant colonel and double amputee Mick Canales discover the aliens' presence. They encounter scientist Cal Zapata, realizing the aliens have taken over the array to re-establish communications with their home planet. "John Paul Jones"’ crew captures an alien which telepathically links with Alex, revealing their history of destroying worlds. Other aliens retrieve their comrade while another sabotages the ship. Its armored suit proves impervious to small-arms fire but is obliterated by the destroyer’s 5-inch gun, and the captured alien's helmet reveals their eyes are sensitive to sunlight. Ashore, Sam, Mick, and Zapata recover his spectrum analyzer, using it to radio "John Paul Jones" that the aliens will contact their planet when the facility’s satellite is in position in four hours.

As night falls, Captain Nagata suggests using the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration tsunami warning buoys around Hawaii to track the warships without radar, allowing "John Paul Jones" to destroy two of them. The third proves too elusive, so they lure it into facing east as the sun rises. Alex and Nagata shoot out its bridge windows, blinding its crew with sunlight as "John Paul Jones" destroys the ship. The destroyer attempts to target the communications array, but is sunk by drones; Alex, Nagata, and several other sailors barely escape.

The survivors commandeer the decommissioned World War II battleship USS|Missouri|BB-63|6 with the aid of retired veterans. The floating structure is revealed to be a giant mothership, but "Missouri" disables the force field while Admiral Shane summons fighter jets from the aircraft carrier USS|Ronald Reagan. The battleship’s turret carrying the ship’s last shell is disabled, forcing the sailors to carry it to another weapon system. Sam, Mick and Cal stall the aliens at the array, where Mick kills an alien soldier. Alex uses the final shell to destroy the array, rendering the "Missouri" defenseless, but the mothership’s drones are destroyed by Royal Australian Air Force Boeing F/A-18 fighter jets which carpet bomb the mothership, eliminating the alien threat.

Alex is promoted to lieutenant commander and presented with a Silver Star and his brother's posthumous Navy Cross. Admiral Shane promises Alex will soon have a ship of his own, while he is also invited to become a Navy SEAL. Alex asks him for Sam’s hand in marriage, and the admiral initially refuses, but invites Alex to lunch.

In a post-credits scene, three teenagers in Scotland find another piece of the alien communications spacecraft, and with the help of an adult manage to open it. The scene ends with the four of them fleeing in terror as an alien crawls out.

####Battletruck####
####Beastmaster 2: Through the Portal of Time####
Dar, the Beastmaster, learns of a previously unknown half-brother, Arklon, who plans to conquer the land with the help of a sorceress named Lyranna. Both escape to present day Los Angeles through a dimensional portal. Dar and his animal companions, Ruh, Kodo, Podo and Sharak, must follow them through the portal and stop them from obtaining a neutron bomb. During his visit, Dar meets a rich girl named Jackie Trent, and they become friends.

####Beastmaster III: The Eye of Braxus####
In the third installment in the series, Dar, the Beastmaster (Marc Singer) teams up with Seth (Tony Todd) to rescue his brother King Tal (Casper Van Dien). They learn that the boy was captured by the evil Lord Agon (David Warner), who has been sacrificing young prisoners in order to magically retain his youth, and seeks to gain immortality by releasing the dark god Braxus from his prison. Along the way, the heroes are assisted by a beautiful witch named Morgana (Lesley-Anne Down), her acrobatic sidekick Bey (Keith Coulouris), and a warrior woman named Shada (Sandra Hess).

####Ben 10: Alien Swarm####
Ben, Gwen and Kevin Levin negotiates with a group of black market dealers attempting to sell alien nanochips, which are causing interference with the Omnitrix. One of them reveals herself to be Elena Validus, Ben and Gwen's childhood friend. Elena explains that she had set up negotiations to lure Ben to seek his help in finding her abducted scientist father. As Ben agrees to help her, the chips spring to life and attack, controlled by a man on a catwalk. The group fights them, and in the process the suspicious man and the dealers escape.

While Elena claims she is not responsible for the attack, Kevin and Gwen are suspicious of her. At their headquarters, the trio, along with Grandpa Max, study one of the chips salvaged from the fight, learning that they are a hybrid of organic and technological components. Hving followed the trio, Elena breaks in and Max orders her to leave, explaining that Elena's father Victor Validus was his apprentice, who was dishonorably discharged after stealing the original chips. Ben refuses to believe that Elena is like her father, and breaks ranks with Max and teammates to help her. While Max is away, Gwen and Kevin investigate Victor Validus and discover a video of Max interrogating Victor, in which Victor insists that "The Hive", the mind intelligence behind the chips, is coming to take over the planet as they are revealed to be able to possess people.

Meanwhile, Ben and Elena arrive at Victor's old laboratory which had been cleared by the Hive, where they find evidence that Victor was studying and upgrading the chips. Elena reveals that her father had become erratic before disappearing, and had stopped returning home. He also appears to be the man from the rafters controlling the chips. A mob under the control of the chips ambush Ben and Elena, forcing them to retreat. The Omnitrix again experiences interference around the chips and keeps Ben from transforming, but Ben utilizes a scanning function to temporarily repel the mob and allow him and Elena to escape. They head to the Ship-It building to investigate further, though Ben is somewhat suspicious of Elena himself, realizing the mob expected him and Elena to head towards the lab and set a trap for them.

Ben finds an order slip made out for that day when Elena claimed that Victor had already been missing for weeks. Having reached the building, Gwen and Kevin are too late to stop the distribution of the chips. Instead, they are met by one of the Ship-It employees, who is also under the chips' control. He summons another larger chip swarm, now capable of forming solid, weaponizable shapes, to attack Gwen and Kevin, damaging Kevin's car during a lengthy chase. Upon joining them, Ben uses Humongousaur to defeat the swarm, destroying Kevin's car in the process. By the time they return to headquarters, the chips have spread across the globe and number in millions.

Gwen realizes the swarm's new ability is a sign that they can adapt to threats and become smarter. The group also deduces the chips have a queen, as the chip's hosts have mentioned her. They believed that they can stop the chips by destroying her, but during their search, Max is possessed. Pulling together, the group notice that while world population centers are all infected, Barren Rock and Missouri has the highest concentration, an apparent anomaly in their distribution. Infiltrating the factory, populated by multiple infected, including Max, the group discovers that the Queen infected Victor and his body is being used as a hive to rapidly mass-produce the chips. Fearing being possessed by the chips while in his alien forms, Ben uses the Omnitrix to transform into a new alien that he calls "Nanomech", but before he could turn into it he was instead shrunken down as a human. He then notices the giant feet of Kevin and Gwen in front of him.

Gwen begins to scrap her gigantic heavy foot across the floor which causes a loud scratching sound which goes to show the massive difference in both size and mass between Gwen and now her shrunken cousin. Ben realises that he is small then after a few seconds then finally transforms into Nanomech, which was created by scanning the DNA of the chips. He flies into Victor's head and battles the Queen, while Gwen, Kevin and Elena fight the infected. As the dormant chips in the factory activate, Nanomech uses the chips ability to adapt to overwhelm and destroy the Queen, freeing everyone from the chips' control. After apologizing to Victor, Max decides to retire and leave his position as leader to Ben, but Ben refuses where he Gwen, Kevin and Elena drive home.

####Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens####

Ben, Gwen, and their paternal grandpa Maxwell Tennyson spend their evenings battling aliens on Bellwood's streets. During a battle that involves chasing and fighting a robotic tank, Ben as Upgrade and Gwen argue about the best way to defeat it, resulting in Gwen utilizing her extraordinarily strong magic to cast a dismantling spell on the tank while Ben is still attached to it. Though this does defeat the tank, unknown to the group, it leads to a malfunction in the Omnitrix.

Later, after a mishap in school where J.T. and Cash lock Ben in his locker, and the Omnitrix accidentally teleports his homework away in a sudden flash of green-pink energy, Ben is grounded by his parents, Carl and Sandra, and forced to stay at home to do a history report. Ben attempts to work on the report before the Omnitrix teleports his laptop away as well. Shortly afterwards, Ben's alien friend Tetrax Shard arrives and tells Ben that Azmuth has asked to meet with him. They go to meet Azmuth, but end up attacked by a To'kustar (Way Big's species). Tetrax and Ben start to fight the alien, who is teleported into the Omnitrix, though neither of them is aware of it. Tetrax decides to take Ben to search for Azmuth and activates a new function on the Omnitrix. Before he can explain this new ability, the ship is attacked and Ben is sucked out into the atmosphere, falling to the ground as Diamondhead.

It is later revealed that the new ability prevents Ben from returning to human form when the Omnitrix times out, simply switching into another one of his alien forms. Ben as Four Arms arrives at Stonehenge, but is confronted and attacked by a Galvanic Mechamorph (Upgrade's species), with abilities of forming weapons and armor from its body and teleportation, who demands to know about the To'kustar that had attacked Ben. Ben explains to the Mechamorph that he knows nothing, but it only continues to attack, and its teleportation ability causes the pair to carry the rest of their battle across the globe: after destroying part of Stonehenge, they nearly damage Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro and fight at the Great Pyramids in Egypt before arriving back in Bellwood. Ben transforms into Grey Matter and manages to escape the Mechamorph.

Meanwhile, Gwen and Grandpa Max receive a call from Ben's parents informing them that Ben is missing. They go in search of him only to find Tetrax. The three discover Azmuth's ship, but with no sign of Azmuth. Looking at the ship's log, they discover that Azmuth disguised it as a truck to track down and fix the malfunctioning Omnitrix, but crashed and was destroyed by the To'kustar. After escaping the Mechamorph, Ben as Grey Matter is mistaken as a small creature by his parents before Gwen, Grandpa Max and Tetrax soon encounter him back at his house. Tetrax restores Ben's Omnitrix to normal just as the Mechamorph catches up to them. Gwen deduces how the Omnitrix reacts after Ben returns to his human form and realize what has happened just as she, Ben, Tetrax and the Mechamorph are transported into the Omnitrix itself.

Inside, Ben and the Mechamorph continue to battle before being attacked by a swarm of Lepidopterrans (Stinkfly's species) just as Gwen and Tetrax are ambushed by a pack of Vulpimancers (Wildmutt's species). The four catch up with each other and they realize that the To'kustar is inside with them just as he resurfaces. The Mechamorph reveals himself as Azmuth's father, who attacks the To'kustar to avenge the death of his beloved son, while Gwen explains to Ben about the malfunction that she accidentally caused to the Omnitrix when she cast the dismantling spell on the robotic tank while Ben was attached to it. She uses Azmuth's father to reverse the transportation and return them all to Earth.

Azmuth's father pursues and fights the To'kustar, but the Omnitrix malfunctions again and transforms Ben's parents into a mindless Vulpimancer and a pyronite (Heatblast's species), causing Gwen to realize that the Omnitrix had transformed Azmuth into the very To'kustar they are fighting. Leaving Grandpa Max and Tetrax to fight his mutated parents, Ben and Gwen follow Azmuth's father and Azmuth to the city where Ben transforms into Way Big to battle Azmuth and hold off his father while he and Gwen try and reverse the accidental transformation, although the three-way battle causes massive damage (yet apparently without causing any civilian deaths) to the city in the process. Ben and Gwen finally convince Azmuth's father that his son is the To'kustar, and the three work together to help Azmuth regain control of himself via Gwen casting a nonverbal mind-based spell to bring back Azmuth's consciousness.

Now regaining his senses, Azmuth proceeds to use his father's Mechamorph abilities to fix the Omnitrix and subsequently allow it to return himself to normal. Azmuth reprimands Ben and Gwen for their errors and reveals that his father is actually a Galvan like him, wearing a Mechamorph-type enhanced armor that, as Azmuth reprimands him for as well, amplifies any anger of the user explaining his behavior. Hearing Azmuth explaining of how the Omnitrix was so filled with pink mana, Gwen wonders just what he is referring to, with Azmuth telling her that she will find out eventually. Returning to Ben's house, Azmuth restores Ben's parents to normal, albeit unconscious and their memories of grounding their son lost due to the effects of the transformation, and repairs the Rust Bucket, previously destroyed in the battle, before leaving to reconcile with his own father.

After Azmuth, his father and Tetrax are out of sight, Ben's parents regain consciousness and telling him to enjoy his fishing trip with Grandpa Max and Gwen. Ben declines, having learned to be more responsible then before and stays home to finish his history report for school. It ends with Ben, Gwen, and Grandpa Max on another road trip where they encounter Doctor Animo and the three prepare for another exciting battle of extraterrestrial, mystical, and highly advanced technological might yet again.

####Ben 10: Race Against Time####
The story opens in an alternate Bellwood as a mysterious black figure appears on the town’s main street and immediately starts destroying things around him. Ten-year-old Ben Tennyson, in the form of Heatblast, confronts and obliterates him after a short battle.

The next day, Ben goes back to school, and has trouble adjusting to normal life again. After a bad day, he gets bullied by Cash, and J.T., and two girls he had tried to flirt with earlier, he transforms into Grey Matter accidentally, and gets revenge by causing chaos at a diner. Later, he and his cousin Gwen Tennyson come across the same villain Ben defeated earlier. Max Tennyson identifies him as Eon, a member of a time-controlling alien species from an unknown dimension known as the Chronians, whom the Plumbers captured almost two centuries ago. When he arrived, he was half dead and had a device called "the Hands of Armageddon", which would open a gateway to his home dimension and unleash his race upon Earth if activated. They travel to the containment facility where Eon is supposed to be kept in suspended animation, but find it empty and his guard aged to near-death. The guard tells Max not to let Eon find the hardware store, where the Hands were kept, and warns Ben that Eon is after him.

Traveling back to Bellwood, Max takes Ben and Gwen to the Hands of Armageddon, guarded by the few remaining Plumbers. Eon follows them and breaks into the facility, but cannot activate the device. When Ben attempts to use the Omnitrix, it malfunctions, glowing bright purple and hurting Ben. Eon attempts to kidnap Ben, claiming it to be a rescue, but Ben escapes. Eon manages to corner Ben, explaining that his race learned to control time itself, but trapped themselves by misusing their power. He claims that his fate is intertwined with Ben's. Eon is scared off by an elderly Plumber before he can elaborate.

Max advises Ben to leave Bellwood so that Eon won't find him, but Ben refuses, and they come to a deal where Ben will be monitored daily by the Plumbers. When Ben goes to the school gym to be alone, Eon ambushes him, and tries to use the Omnitrix, claiming to show Ben his future. However, Ben breaks free, transforms into Diamondhead and fights him off. Later that night, Ben decides to lure Eon into a trap by purposefully leaving himself open, but this backfires and he is captured along with Gwen and Max.

At the Plumber facility storing the Hands of Armageddon, Eon explains that the Omnitrix only allows Ben to remain in his alien forms for ten minutes as a fail-safe, to prevent them from overwhelming his human self and personality with the form's own. He also reveals that he is an evil version of Ben from an alternate timeline, which Max wanted to hide from Ben. Eon deactivates the fail safe, and turns Ben into a mindless Chronian under his control, as the Hands must be powered by a young Chronian. Meanwhile, the imprisoned Plumbers, along with Gwen and Max, free themselves, and mount a rescue. While Max tries to sacrifice himself to disable the Hands, Gwen reaches out to Ben in his Chronian form. Ben turns back to normal, and with the help of the other Plumbers, manages to save Max and disable the time rift, sending Eon's race back to their dimension.

The older Eon reappears, angered at Ben's victory. Ben transforms into Wildmutt and fights him off, knocking him into the Hands of Armageddon, destroying both the Hands and Eon. Gwen takes Wildmutt to a talent show that the school is having, where they perform a magic trick and win second place. After the show, Grandpa Max recommends that it is time to give the Omnitrix a rest for a while and he, Ben and Gwen go for pizza. Ben admits that he will miss it. Suddenly, in space, an alien armada assembles, hinting that Ben and Max's longtime archenemy Vilgax has returned.

####Beowulf (1999 film)####
####Beta Test (film)####

While testing the latest first person shooter from global game developer, Sentinel, video game champion Max Troy discovers the events happening within the game are being reflected in the real world. He soon determines that the game's protagonist is real-life Orson Creed, an ex-Sentinel employee who is being remotely controlled by the corporation for reasons unknown. As virtual and real worlds collide, Max and Creed must join forces to unravel the conspiracy before the game's sinister events escalate and overwhelm the city.

####Beyond Skyline####
####Bionicle: Mask of Light####
####Bionicle 2: Legends of Metru Nui####
####Bionicle 3: Web of Shadows####
####Bionicle: The Legend Reborn####
####The Black Hole (1979 film)####
The spacecraft USS "Palomino" has nearly completed its mission exploring deep space. The crew consists of Captain Dan Holland, First Officer Lieutenant Charlie Pizer, journalist Harry Booth, ESP-sensitive scientist Dr. Kate McCrae, the expedition's civilian leader Dr. Alex Durant and the diminutive robot V.I.N.CENT. ("Vital Information Necessary CENTralized").

As it is returning to Earth, the "Palomino" discovers a black hole with the apparently abandoned and long-lost USS "Cygnus" nearby, the same ship that McCrae's father was aboard when it vanished 20 years ago. (Cygnus X-1 is the first-known black hole, discovered in 1964, after which this scientific vessel is presumably named.) The "Palomino" decide to investigate and finds that there is a mysterious null gravity field surrounding the "Cygnus" that allows it to defy the massive gravitational pull of the black hole. The "Palomino" briefly strays outside the field and is damaged by the intense gravity, forcing it to emergency dock with the "Cygnus", which no longer appears abandoned.

The cautious "Palomino" crew soon encounter Dr. Hans Reinhardt (one of Earth's most brilliant scientists, according to Durant). Reinhardt explains he has been alone on the "Cygnus" since it encountered a meteor field and was disabled. He ordered the human crew to return to Earth without him, but Kate's father chose to remain aboard and has since died. To replace the crew, Reinhardt built faceless, black-robed drones, sentry robots and his sinister bodyguard robot, Maximilian. Reinhardt says he intends to fly the "Cygnus" through the black hole because 20 years of study has shown that it's possible. Only an enamoured Durant believes him and asks if he can accompany Reinhardt.

However, the rest of the "Palomino" crew start to become suspicious of Reinhardt. Booth sees a drone limping, while Holland witnesses an android funeral and discovers personal items in the "Cygnus" crew quarters. V.I.N.CENT. meets a battered earlier model of his type named BO.B. ("BiO-sanitation Battalion"). BO.B explains the drones are actually what's left of the human crew, who mutinied when Reinhardt refused to return to Earth after the "Cygnus" was damaged. McCrae's father was killed leading the mutiny, and the crew was lobotomized and "reprogrammed" to serve Reinhardt. V.I.N.CENT. uses telepathy to tell Kate. After she informs Durant what really happened, he removes a drone's faceplate, revealing the zombie-like face of a crew member. Durant tries to flee with Kate, but is killed by Maximilian.

Reinhardt orders his robots to lobotomize Kate, but just as the process begins, she is rescued by Holland, V.I.N.CENT. and BO.B. Harry Booth tries to escape alone in the "Palomino", but is shot down and fatally crashes into the "Cygnus". A subsequent meteor storm and the explosion of the ship's overstressed main power plant cause the anti-gravity generator to fail. Without its null-gravity bubble, the "Cygnus" quickly starts to break apart under the black hole's huge gravitational forces.

Reinhardt and the "Palomino" survivors separately plan their escape in the probe ship used to study the black hole. Reinhardt orders Maximilian to prepare the ship for launch, but then a large viewscreen falls on Reinhardt, pinning him to the deck, surrounded by his lobotomized crew. Maximilian encounters the "Palomino" crew and fatally damages B.O.B. before being disabled by V.I.N.CENT and left to drift. Holland, Pizer, McCrae and V.I.N.CENT. launch the probe, which has a pre-programmed flight path that takes them into the black hole.

Within the black hole, Reinhardt and Maximilian merge together above a burning, hellish landscape populated by dark-robed spectres resembling "Cygnus" drones. Meanwhile, the probe ship is led through a cathedral-like arched crystal tunnel by a floating, angelic figure. After the ship emerges from a white hole, Holland, Pizer, McCrae and V.I.N.CENT. fly towards a planet near a bright star.

####Black Lightning (2009 film)####
####Black Panther (film)####
####Black Panther: Wakanda Forever####
####Black Widow (2021 film)####
####Blade (1998 film)####
In 1967, a pregnant woman is attacked by a vampire, causing her to go into premature labor. Doctors are able to save her baby, but the woman dies.

Thirty years later, the child has become the vampire hunter, Blade, who is a human-vampire hybrid that possesses the supernatural abilities of the vampires without any of their weaknesses, except for the requirement to consume human blood. Blade raids a rave club owned by the vampire Deacon Frost. Police take one of the vampires to the hospital, where he kills Dr. Curtis Webb and feeds on hematologist Karen Jenson, and escapes. Blade takes Karen to a safe house where she is treated by his old friend Abraham Whistler. Whistler explains that he and Blade have been waging a secret war against vampires using weapons based on their elemental weaknesses, such as sunlight, silver, and garlic. As Karen is now "marked" by the bite of a vampire, both he and Blade tell her to leave the city.

At a meeting of the council of pure-blood vampire elders, Frost, the leader of a faction of younger vampires, is rebuked for trying to incite war between vampires and humans. As Frost and his kind are not natural-born vampires, they are considered socially inferior. Meanwhile, returning to her apartment, Karen is attacked by police officer Krieger, who is a familiar, a human loyal to vampires. Blade subdues Krieger and uses information from him to locate an archive that contains pages from the "vampire bible".

Krieger informs Frost of what happened, and Frost kills Krieger. Frost also has one of the elders executed and strips the others of their authority, in response to the earlier disrespect shown him at the council of vampires. Meanwhile Blade comes upon Pearl, a morbidly obese vampire, and tortures him with a UV light into revealing that Deacon wants to command a ritual where he would use 12 pure-blood vampires to awaken the "blood god" La Magra; and Blade's blood is the key.

Later, at the hideout, Blade injects himself with a special serum that suppresses his urge to drink blood. However, the serum is beginning to lose its effectiveness due to overuse. While experimenting with the anticoagulant EDTA as a possible replacement, Karen discovers that it explodes when combined with vampire blood. She manages to synthesize a vaccine that can cure the infected but learns that it will not work on Blade. Karen is confident that she can cure Blade's bloodthirst but it would take her years of treating it.

Frost and his men attack the hideout, infect Whistler, and abduct Karen. When Blade returns, he helps Whistler commit suicide. When Blade attempts to rescue Karen from Frost's penthouse, he is shocked to find his still-alive mother, who reveals that she came back the night she was attacked and was brought in by Frost, who appears and reveals himself as the vampire who bit her. Blade is then subdued and taken to the Temple of Eternal Night, where Frost plans to perform the summoning ritual for La Magra. Karen is thrown into a pit to be devoured by Webb, who has transformed into a decomposing zombie-like creature. Karen injures Webb and escapes. Blade is drained of his blood, but Karen allows him to drink from her, enabling him to recover. Frost completes the ritual and obtains the powers of La Magra. Blade confronts Frost after killing all of his minions, including his mother. During their fight, Blade injects Frost with all of the syringes; the overdose of EDTA causes his body to inflate and explode, killing him.

Karen offers to help Blade cure himself; instead, he asks her to create an improved version of the serum, so he can continue his crusade against vampires. In a brief epilogue, Blade confronts a vampire in Moscow.

####Blade II####
Blade searches Prague for his mentor Abraham Whistler, who was thought dead after being attacked by Deacon Frost, but was instead turned into a vampire and held prisoner for two years. Blade rescues Whistler and cures him. Whistler meets Scud, Blade's young new technician and marijuana smoker who likes rap music.

A pandemic is turning vampires into "Reapers", primal, mutant creatures with a ravenous thirst for blood and a highly infectious bite that transforms both human and vampire alike. In order to combat the Reapers, vampire overlord Eli Damaskinos sends his minion, Asad, and daughter Nyssa to strike a truce with Blade; who become reluctantly allies with the vampires. He teams up with the Bloodpack, an elite group of vampires originally assembled to kill him. The pack consists of Asad, Nyssa, Reinhardt, Chupa, Snowman, Priest, Verlaine, and her lover Lighthammer. Reinhardt hates Blade, and challenges him to fight, but in response Blade implants an explosive on his head to keep him in line.

They investigate a vampire nightclub where they encounter the Reapers and discover they are immune to most vampire weaknesses. The Reaper leader, Jared Nomak, arrives and holds Nyssa hostage. He tries to recruit Blade to his cause, citing their mutual hatred of vampires. Priest is bitten and mercy-killed, and Lighthammer is bitten but conceals the bite. Whistler disappears and Scud is attacked by several Reapers, which he drives off with UV lights. Blade fights Nomak, who is immune to Blade's weapons. As the sun rises, Nomak retreats and Whistler returns, revealing he has found the Reaper nest in the sewer. Nyssa dissects a dead Reaper and learns their hearts are encased in durable bone. Realizing UV light is their only weakness, Scud and Whistler make UV weapons for the team, as well as a UV-emitting bomb strong enough to take out the entire nest.

Entering the Reaper nest, the team spreads out. Lighthammer transforms into a Reaper and kills Snowman. Verlaine sacrifices herself to kill Lighthammer by exposing them both to sunlight. Chupa and Reinhardt attack Whistler, who sprays Chupa with a Reaper pheromone. This attracts a horde which kills Chupa and Whistler escapes. Asad and Nyssa are ambushed and Asad is killed. Blade saves Nyssa and uses the UV-bomb which kills all of the Reapers except for Nomak. Nyssa and Reinhardt manage to evade the blast, but Nyssa is seriously injured until Blade allows her to drink his blood to survive.

Damaskinos' forces betray and capture Blade, Whistler, and Scud. It is revealed that the Reapers exist as a result of Damaskinos' efforts to engineer a stronger breed of vampires. Nomak, the first Reaper, is his own son, whom Damaskinos considers a failure due to his weakness to sunlight. Scud reveals himself to be one of Damaskinos' familiars, but Blade, who already suspected this, kills him with the explosive he planted on Reinhardt earlier. Damaskinos plans to harvest Blade’s blood in order to develop an immunity to sunlight and create a new and entirely invincible breed of vampires. Whistler escapes Reinhardt and frees a nearly drained Blade, who falls into Damaskinos' blood pool, restoring his strength. He fights his way through Damaskinos' henchmen and kills Reinhardt.

Nomak enters Damaskinos' stronghold seeking revenge on his father. Nyssa betrays Damaskinos by sealing off their escape route to the heliport and Damaskinos is killed by Nomak after failing to negotiate with him. Nomak then bites Nyssa, drinking her blood. Blade and Nomak engage in battle and Blade stabs Nomak in his only weak spot. With his revenge complete, and wanting to end his suffering, Nomak kills himself with Blade's sword. Fulfilling Nyssa's wish of dying as a vampire, Blade takes her outside and embraces her as her body disintegrates due to the sunrise. Sometime later in London, Blade kills Rush, the vampire that escaped in Prague.

####Blade Runner####
####Blade Runner 2049####
####Blade: Trinity####
A small group of vampires investigate an ancient tomb in the Syrian Desert, which they believe belongs to the first vampire Dracula, also called "Drake". To keep Blade from interfering, they frame him for the murder of a human familiar. FBI agents subsequently locate Blade's hideout and kill his mentor and friend, Abraham Whistler. Demoralized, Blade surrenders and is arrested.

The vampires' familiars have arranged for the authorities to turn Blade over to them. He is rescued by Hannibal King and Abigail Whistler, Abraham's daughter, who invite Blade to join their band of vampire hunters, the Nightstalkers. From them, Blade learns that Danica Talos, an old enemy of King, has revived Drake with the goal of using his powers to cure vampires of their weaknesses. As the first of the vampires, Drake is able to survive in sunlight. Along with newly-innovative ultraviolet "Sun dog" ammunition, the Nightstalkers have created an experimental bioweapon known as Daystar, capable of killing vampires at the genetic level. However, they need a purer blood source to make it effective. As Drake is too powerful to kill via normal means, they hope that the virus will kill him and, with his blood in the mix, ensure the rest of the species is wiped out; but also fear that this will include Blade.

Eager to test Blade, Drake isolates him from the Nightstalkers. He explains his view that all humans and vampires are inferior in his eyes and that he intends to wipe them from the Earth. Abigail finds evidence of the vampires' plans for human subjugation, a network of "blood farms" where brain dead humans are drained of their blood for vampire consumption. Blade deactivates the farm's life support systems and executes the familiar who had been rounding up homeless humans for the vampires.

Returning to the Nightstalkers' hideout, Abigail and Blade find all of them dead except for King and Sommerfield's daughter Zoe, both of whom have been taken captive. A recording left by Sommerfield, Daystar's creator, reveals that Drake's blood is all that is needed to make it complete and effective. King is tortured by the vampires for information, but refuses to talk, even when they threaten to turn him and force him to feed from Zoe's blood.

Blade and Abigail arrive and free the captives. Drake eventually bests Blade in combat and prepares to kill him with his own sword. Abigail fires the Daystar arrow, but Drake catches it before it strikes him. He drops it to the floor by Blade, not realizing the danger it poses to him. Abigail shoots Drake with another arrow, this time wounding him. Blade uses the distraction to stab Drake with the Daystar arrow, triggering a chemical reaction that completes the "Daystar" virus, releasing it into the air. The virus becomes airborne, killing Danica and the rest of the vampires. As Drake slowly succumbs to his wounds and the virus, he praises Blade for fighting honorably, but warns him that he will eventually succumb to his need for blood, thus proving that Blade is the future of the vampire race.

Using the last of his power, Drake shapeshifts into Blade. The FBI recover the body, but as they begin the autopsy, it transforms back into the deceased Drake. King narrates that Drake's final transformation was a gift so that Blade could escape, leaving Blade free to continue fighting his never-ending war against the forces of evil.

####Bloodshot (film)####
After leading a successful rescue operation of hostages in Mombasa, U.S. Marine Ray Garrison and his wife, Gina, travel for a holiday at an Italian beachside town in the Amalfi Coast. They are kidnapped by a group of mercenaries led by Martin Axe, who demands to know how the US military learned about the hostages and their location. When Ray explains that he cannot answer, Axe executes Gina in front of him. Ray vows revenge, and Axe kills Ray as well.

An amnesiac Ray awakens in the labs of Rising Spirit Technologies (RST), a company in Kuala Lumpur specializing in cybernetic enhancements for disabled US military personnel. CEO and lead scientist Dr. Emil Harting tells Ray he is the first successful human subject of the "Bloodshot" program, resurrecting and healing him through the injection of experimental nanite technology now replacing his entire bloodstream. This technology increases his strength and heals his injuries, but the nanites need to be regularly replaced and recharged or he will eventually succumb to damage and die again.

Ray is introduced to Dr. Harting's other patients, including female former U.S. Navy Diver "KT", former U.S. Army Ranger Marcus Tibbs, and ex-Navy SEAL Jimmy Dalton. After experiencing flashbacks of Gina and Axe, Ray abruptly leaves to avenge Gina's death. Using the nanites and RST servers to hack into databases, Ray tracks Axe to Budapest and kills him along with his bodyguards. Back at RST, Ray is put to sleep as his nanites are rebooted. As he has done many times before, Harting replaces Ray's memories with a new scenario of how Gina died, this time with Axe's associate, Nick Baris, as the culprit. KT objects to Harting repeatedly manipulating Ray's memories so he will go after different targets without question or remorse, but she is ignored and reminded that RST can kill her by deactivating her enhancements.

Ray awakens, once again amnesiac, and is re-introduced to RST, then experiences flashbacks of Baris kidnapping and killing him and Gina. Driven by revenge, he tracks Baris to East Sussex and kills him, despite the man pleading that RST is lying. Wilfred Wigans, a programmer forced to work for Baris, activates an EMP bomb that incapacitates Ray and severs his link with RST. Ray awakens in Wigans's office and experiences multiple contradicting memories of who killed Gina. Wigans helps him realize RST has been manipulating him so he would kill Harting's former associates. Ray tracks down Gina, not only learning she is actually still alive, but that their relationship ended five years ago, and she has since started a new life and family in London.

Harting sends KT after Wigans, but after KT asks Wigans for help in freeing herself from RST's control and taking down the corporation, she returns to RST and tells Harting she failed to capture the programmer. Meanwhile, Ray is recaptured by Dalton and Tibbs and brought back to the laboratory. KT and Wigans sabotage the reprogramming process and destroy the RST computers. Ray awakens, but Dalton and Tibbs try to subdue him. After a lengthy battle, he kills them as the RST building collapses. Harting confronts Ray with a grenade launcher, confident that the soldier will surrender now that his nanites have been exhausted. To his surprise, Ray is willing to die to achieve victory and activates a grenade that the nanites deconstructed, killing them both. Ray later awakes with his full memories, revived by Wigans who has updated his technology so that his nanites are self-sufficient. They and KT then leave in search of a new life.

####Boss Level####

Roy Pulver, a retired Delta Force soldier in Atlanta, has been stuck in a time loop, and has learned the day's patterns through many previous loops. He wakes at 07:00 AM each day, avoids an assassin in his apartment and an attack by a gunman in a helicopter outside his window, then escapes his apartment before it explodes. He has been able to elude more assassins throughout the morning, but finds himself unable to figure out how to survive a final attack at 12:47 PM, waking up back in his apartment on the next loop.

On the day before Roy entered the loop, his estranged wife Jemma had asked Roy to visit her at defense contractor Dynow Labs under the pretense of a job interview. The two argue over Joe, their son, whom Jemma has led to believe that Roy is just a family friend. When Colonel Clive Ventor, head of Dynow, discovers Roy near Jemma's highly classified project, he has him escorted out, but not before Jemma obtains a sample of Roy's hair.

In one loop, Roy tries to call Jemma but instead reaches Ventor, who tells him that Jemma died from a lab accident the day before. Roy becomes suspicious. On a later loop, he finds Joe at Underground Atlanta, skipping school for a video game tournament. Roy spends the day with Joe but does not mention Jemma's death. The assassins arrive to kill Roy, and Roy uses his body to protect Joe, telling him as he dies that he is his father.

When Roy next wakes, he realizes that the assassins had followed him using a dental tracking device implanted by Alice, his date from the night before (a dental hygienist). Through more trial-and-error loops, Roy finds a way to remove the tracker and sneak into Dynow, killing several guards and assassins, but is always stopped by Ventor. Ventor reveals to Roy that Jemma's project is the Osiris Spindle, a quantum device capable of rewriting history, which Ventor plans to use to set himself up as the world's dictator. Ventor admits he was responsible for Jemma's death after an argument the night before. As she had started the Spindle and no one else knows how to operate it, Ventor warns Roy the Spindle will destroy the world if it runs too long.

On further loops, Roy makes the connection to the Egyptian god of the afterlife, Osiris, and he realizes that Jemma must have placed him in the Spindle to stop Ventor. While he is able to further infiltrate Dynow and kill Ventor, Roy learns the assassins were sent to kill Joe, and arrives too late. As he mourns over Joe, the Osiris Spindle explodes and destroys the world.

Roy spends several loops in a despondent state, then decides to spend several more loops with Joe, staying with him until the Spindle's explosion. In one loop, he learns that Jemma had called Joe that morning, later than he previously thought she was still alive, and realizes he can save her. After determining the exact time and place she died at Ventor's hands in Dynow, fourteen minutes after he wakes up, Roy uses the next loop to hijack the helicopter, get to Dynow, kill the waiting assassins, and stop Ventor before he kills Jemma.

Roy tells Jemma he has been spending his loops with Joe, and that he has seen the end of the world. Jemma tells Roy that he has to enter the Osiris Spindle in order to reset it, and that he would wake up and repeat the day once more but if he died he would stay dead. Roy kisses Jemma before entering the spindle as Jemma looks on in awe. Roy reawakens back in bed and tells himself not to die as the attacks begin.

####Bounty Killer (film)####
####BraveStarr: The Movie####
Far out in space on New Texas, a single marshal protects a frontier people from the evil machinations of Stampede and his lackey, Tex Hex.

####Breach (2020 film)####
Earth is suffering an extinction level event, and 300,000 survivors are selected to board a spaceship called the Ark which will take them to a new colony called New Earth. Noah (Cody Kearsley) stows away on the Ark impersonating a junior janitor while his girlfriend Hayley (Kassandra Clementi), who is pregnant with his child is put into stasis as a passenger.

A grizzled older janitor named Clay (Bruce Willis) attempts to mentor Noah. Blue (Johnny Messner) and Shady (Johann Urb), two experienced crew members, are infected by a parasitic force. Meanwhile, Noah spies on Clay and suspects the older man is constructing a bomb. Clay shows Noah that he is brewing moonshine.

That evening the workers have an impromptu party where they talk about the loved ones they left behind. Noah tells everyone he will be reassigned to be a butcher when they reach New Earth. Ortega (Angie Pack) leaves the party to hook up with Blue and finds him welding alone. Blue turns on Ortega, killing her.

Later Clay discovers that Noah's girlfriend is Admiral Adams' (Thomas Jane) daughter. Security officer Stanley (Timothy V. Murphy) discovers Shady's decomposed body and identifies Blue as the killer. Clay finds Ortega's body; Stanley gathers a security detail and they find Blue attempting to break into the admiral's quarters. Blue suddenly leaps and kills one of the security team by biting through the officer's throat. Stanley and Teek (Callan Mulvey) are forced to shoot Blue. Chambers (Rachel Nichols) performs an autopsy on Blue's body. Teek meanwhile searches the video feed and sees a recording of Shady's death and Blue's initial infection. Chambers reports that Blue is completely hollowed out and there is a parasite loose on the ship.

Chambers discovers that Noah is not a member of the crew but a stowaway and Stanley arrests him. Clay defends Noah successfully and he is released. While the survivors discuss next steps, the three dead crewmen reanimate and attack, killing Stanley. Chambers manages to injure the remaining infected for Teek, Clay, and Noah to escape. The newly infected Stanley starts to release the infected and unlocks the remaining crew's quarters who are quickly taken over and infected.

Clay guides the survivors to the arsenal. Chambers is unable to pinpoint a weakness in the infected so Clay suggests using a flame thrower. The flame thrower sets off the fire suppression unit which ruins visibility. Lincoln (Corey Large) reunites with the group just as Teek is suddenly grabbed by the infected and pulled into the mist. Clay runs off to rescue Teek. As Teek and Clay return, Lincoln suggests using the escape pods while Teek proposes the security bay.

Lincoln flees by himself in an escape pod, but is shown not to be alone and killed offscreen. The remaining survivors get to the security bay but Stanley nabs Clay as they try and lock themselves in. Noah shoots Stanley before he can infect Clay and they barricade the door.

With 84 days until the Ark reaches New Earth the survivors try to concoct a plan to fend off the infected and save the passengers. Clay guides Noah through ducts to the Admiral, who they hope will be able to rescue them. Noah reaches the Admiral and Teek confesses to Clay and Chambers that he is responsible for everything that has transpired, and is in reality a hardline revolutionary against the repopulation of New Earth.

The Admiral awakens his security team and proposes to use stronger weapons against the infected. As the infected break into the security room, Clay and Chambers fight them off while Teek is killed. The Admiral's security team are overwhelmed; Blue chases Noah, and collapses after being splashed with cleaning fluid. As Noah attempts to relay his finding, the Admiral sacrifices himself by setting off a grenade, blowing the infected apart. Just as Chambers and Clay think it's over, the remaining body parts start to reconnect.

A stronger mutant being is formed, and the other infected enter the reactor core. Noah explains the effect of the cleaning fluid, and the group head to Clay's moonshine stash to construct better weapons. As they plan their attack, the time to arrival starts to decrease as the infected overheating the reactor. Chambers realizes that the parasite was manipulating them all along to allow them to gain access to the reactor core while Noah realizes that the parasite's plan is to wipe out the last 50 million of the human race on New Earth while wiping out the passengers at the same time with the ship. The passengers begin to turn infected. Clay sends Noah to rescue Hayley and they make their way towards an escape pod just as the mutant being attacks. Chambers is killed in the alien's first attack, and Clay attempts to hold it off but he too is overwhelmed and seemingly killed.

Noah and Hayley make for the remaining escape pod, but Noah has to separate from Hayley to start the launch sequence. He confronts the monster and manages to weaken it with his weapon. Just as Noah attempts to leave, Clay messages him from the bridge. Clay sets the Ark to self-destruct as Noah escapes with Hayley.

Noah and Hayley reach New Earth, but as they emerge from the escape pod Noah spots another human who turns out to be infected, and in the distance a huge monster is attacked by a jet fighter. As the film ends Noah raises his gun and utters "Burn 'em all".

####Bright (film)####
Humans coexist with other sentient species, notably orcs and elves. While magic is real, its practice is illegal. Rare magical artifacts known as magic wands exist, but only a select few individuals called "Brights" can wield them without dying.

In Los Angeles, veteran LAPD officer Daryl Ward has been involuntarily partnered with Nick Jakoby, the nation's first orc police officer. Jakoby is equally detested by the other officers for his race and his fellow orcs for being a policeman. Ward's relationship with Jakoby is strained since Ward was shot by an orc robber Jakoby failed to apprehend; Internal Affairs suspects Jakoby deliberately let him go.

One night, Ward and Jakoby respond to a disturbance at a safe house for the "Shield of Light", an extremist group that prophesies the return of the "Dark Lord", an ancient semi-mythical figure defeated many millennia ago. Inside, Ward and Jakoby apprehend the lone survivor, an elf girl named Tikka in possession of a wand. Ward calls for backup, but the moment the four arriving officers see the wand, they try to coerce Ward into killing Jakoby and letting them steal the wand for themselves.

Ward goes outside, demanding the truth about the robber. Jakoby admits he lost sight of Ward's assailant and mistakenly apprehended a second, younger orc; he then helped him flee, knowing that the backup officers would probably kill the boy on sight. When the four officers appear behind Ward, planning to kill both him and Jakoby, Ward turns and guns them down. The gunfire attracts the attention of the local Hispanic gang, while rumors of the wand draw the attentions of both its owner Leilah, the leader of the radical elf sect the Inferni, and Kandomere, an elf FBI agent assigned to the federal "Magic Task Force".

The gangsters corner the trio in a strip club, but are slaughtered by Leilah, allowing the trio to escape again. At a service station, Ward contacts his friend, Sheriff Deputy Rodriguez, whom he trusts. Rodriguez contacts Kandomere, but Leilah intercepts their conversation, attacks the service station and kills him.

Escaping again, the trio is captured by the Fogteeth Orcs, whose leader Dorghu also wants the wand. He orders his son Mikey to kill Jakoby, but he is the orc that Jakoby saved and refuses to kill him. Sending his son away, he kills Jakoby himself. As he prepares to kill Ward, Tikka produces the wand and resurrects Jakoby, showing she is a Bright. The Fogteeth's shaman pronounces this to be part of a prophecy, causing the clan to kneel to them, setting them free. Tikka explains that the Inferni believe that assembling three wands will allow them to resurrect the Dark Lord. She also reveals that she was once a member of the Inferni, but she fled the group and was sheltered by the Shield of Light. Leilah loaned her wand to a Bright assassin to kill Tikka, but she killed the assassin, taking the wand.

Using the wand to resurrect Jakoby has made Tikka gravely ill, and she can only be healed in a magical pool at the safe house. Returning there, they are ambushed by Leilah and her two enforcers. In the confrontation, Leilah's guards are killed, but Leilah holds Tikka helpless as Ward and Jakoby run out of ammunition. Ward deliberately grabs the wand, believing that the resulting explosion will kill all of them. To everyone's amazement, Ward survives handling the wand, revealing he is also a Bright. He kills Leilah with the wand, triggering an explosion that sets the building on fire. Tikka disappears and the injured Ward and Jakoby escape the burning building with Jakoby leading the way, as he exits he realises Ward is not with him and has become trapped somewhere during their escape. Casting aside first responders who were attempting to administer aid, Jakoby charges back into the fire to rescue his partner, pulling him from the flames and debris just in time, this is witnessed by the Fogteeth clan and Dorghu 'bloods' Jakoby (a mark of great respect within Orc society) for his act of bravery.

In the hospital, Ward and Jakoby, understanding that the federal agents want any hint of magical activity kept secret, give Kandomere a doctored account of the previous night's events.

In a public ceremony, Jakoby, Ward and Rodriguez are honored. Ward smiles as he spots Tikka moving through the crowd in disguise.

####Bumblebee (film)####
####Campus Code####
College student Becca begins to notice strange events on her campus, which become more apparent when she sees classmate Ari fall from a great height and appear unharmed. The two attempt to uncover the secrets of their campus while being antagonized by Elliot, the student who caused Ari to fall. Meanwhile, Ari's friend Arun and his girlfriend Izzy are blackmailed by the Griefers, a group of students who want complete free will on the campus. Arun confides in Greta, a new student he meets, that his parents are forcing him into an arranged marriage and he has locked his parents in his closet.

During a party, Elliot abruptly disintegrates and an earthquake appears to affect the campus. Only Becca, Ari, Arun, and Izzy appear to witness these events, however, and suddenly find themselves being hunted by the campus' security guards. Izzy now claims she cannot remember why she was being blackmailed and the Griefers are disintegrated before they can reveal her secret. Greta helps the guards capture Izzy, but is also disintegrated for letting Arun escape. Ari, Becca, and Arun attempt to leave the campus through its exit, only to end up back at the entrance, while a strange entity in the sky attempts to kill them. They manage to evade the entity and reunite with Izzy as they look for a place to hide.

It is revealed the events on the campus have been taking place inside a video game and the students are avatars controlled by players. Arun is a young Indian man who resents being forced into an arranged marriage, Greta is the young Indian woman arranged to marry Arun and was playing the game to meet him, Izzy is a male catfish and cross-dresser, and Ari's player has been using the game to generate income. Ari, Arun, and Izzy, however, all escaped from their players' control and gained sentience, while Becca is implied to be a virus who escaped quarantine and inadvertently infected the other three. Responsible for the attempts on their lives are the game's programmers to prevent them from infecting other avatars.

Upon realizing the truth, Arun, Izzy, Ari, and Becca question what their next move should be. After some deliberation, Becca states they will contact their creators.

####Captain America (1990 film)####
In 1936 in Porto Venere, Italy, the Fascist government kidnaps a child prodigy, Tadzio De Santis, and kills his family, to use him for an experimental project to create a Fascist supersoldier. The procedure's inventor, Dr. Maria Vaselli, objects to this cruelty and defects to the United States to offer her services to the Americans.

Seven years later, the American government finds a volunteer in Steve Rogers, a frail man who is exempted from the draft due to being partly crippled by polio. The formula successfully cures Rogers' ailments and gives him superior strength and endurance; but before any more supersoldiers can be created, Vaselli is murdered by a Nazi spy secretly working with Lieutenant Fleming before Rogers manages to kill him. Meanwhile, the now adult de Santis—whose skin was burnt to a scarred red texture by the earlier version of Vaselli's procedure, but has physical prowess equal to Rogers—has become the Red Skull, and is planning to launch a prototype intercontinental ballistic missile at the White House. Rogers, now code-named Captain America, is sent in to neutralize the Red Skull and the missile. He penetrates the Nazi launch compound, but the Red Skull defeats Captain America and ties him to the missile. As it is about to launch, Captain America grabs the Red Skull's arm and forces him to cut off his own hand to avoid being taken along. While the missile is over Washington, D.C., a young boy named Tom Kimball takes a photograph as Captain America kicks one of the missile's fins, changing its course mere yards from the White House and ultimately crashing somewhere in Alaska, burying itself and Rogers under the ice.

In 1992, Tom Kimball is elected President of the United States. A year into his first term, he pushes for aggressive new pro-environmentalist legislation that angers the military-industrial complex headed by Fleming, who has now been promoted to General. At a secret conference in Italy, Fleming meets with the Red Skull and other leaders of a global shadow organization. Following the war, the Red Skull had extensive plastic surgery to partially alter his disfigured features, raised a hitwoman daughter, Valentina, and became the leader of a powerful crime family. In the 1960s, the shadow organization hired the Red Skull and his thugs to murder various Americans who were against militarism and fascism, such as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., President John F. Kennedy, and Robert Kennedy. This time, the Red Skull disapproves murder and instead organizes Kimball's kidnapping and subsequent brainwashing.

In Alaska, a team of researchers accidentally find Rogers' body frozen in a block of ice, and he awakens still thinking that it is the 1940s. His mysterious reappearance makes international headlines, alerting both Kimball and the Red Skull. After escaping from some of the Red Skull's thugs, Rogers brushes off Sam Kolawetz, a reporter and childhood friend of Kimball who has long hounded the Skull, and hitchhikes his way back to his wartime girlfriend, Bernice, in Redondo Beach, California. While Bernice still lives at her old residence, she has long since married and raised her own daughter, Sharon, who gives Rogers a series of history videos to help him catch up. Red Skull's thugs, led by Valentina, break into Bernice's house and kill her during their efforts to find Rogers. While visiting Sharon's father in the hospital, Rogers and Sharon learn from the news that Kimball has been kidnapped, and vow to rescue him from the Red Skull. Rogers and Sharon visit the secret underground base where he gained his superpowers to recover Vaselli's diary and learn the original name of Red Skull. They are ambushed by Red Skull's thugs, who are defeated by Rogers. They travel to Italy and, in the Red Skull's childhood home, locate an old tape recording of the murder of his parents. Sharon gets kidnapped as a distraction to allow Rogers, who dons his costume, to enter the Red Skull's castle.

Kimball escapes from his cell, is rescued by Captain America and teams up with him in laying siege to the castle. In the midst of their battle, the Red Skull pulls out a remote trigger for a nuclear bomb, but Rogers uses the recording of the De Santis family's murder to distract him. Just as Red Skull recovers, Captain America uses his shield to send him off a cliff, killing him, and as Valentina prepares to kill Rogers, she is hit from behind by his returning shield. The United States Marines arrive to save the President and arrest the conspirators involved in the kidnapping. Rogers and Sharon embrace, and a news voiceover announces the passing of Kimball's new environmental pact as agreed upon by dozens of other countries around the world.

####Captain America: Civil War####
####Captain America: New World Order####
####Captain America: The First Avenger####


In the present day, scientists in the Arctic uncover an old, frozen aircraft. In March 1942, Nazi lieutenant general Johann Schmidt and his men steal a mysterious relic called the Tesseract,efn|Producer Kevin Feige stated that the Tesseract of the films is based on the Cosmic Cube of the comics.<ref name="MLCC" /> After "Thor: The Dark World" (2013), he further stated it was also the Space Stone.<ref name="SpaceStone" /> which possesses untold godly powers, from the town of Tønsberg in German-occupied Norway.

In New York City, Steve Rogers is rejected for World War II military recruitment due to his various health and physical problems. While attending an exhibition of future technologies with his best friend, Sgt. James "Bucky" Barnes, Rogers again attempts to enlist. Overhearing Rogers' conversation with Barnes about representing his country in the war, Dr. Abraham Erskine allows Rogers to enlist. He is recruited into the Strategic Scientific Reserve as part of a "super-soldier" experiment under Erskine, Colonel Chester Phillips, and British MI6 agent Peggy Carter. Phillips is unconvinced by Erskine's claims that Rogers is the right person for the procedure but relents after seeing Rogers jump on a grenade to save his comrades, unaware that it is a test. The night before the treatment, Erskine reveals to Rogers that Schmidt underwent the procedure prematurely and suffered permanent side-effects.

Schmidt and Dr. Arnim Zola harness the energies of the Tesseract, intending to use the power to fuel Zola's inventions, mounting an offensive that will change the world. Schmidt discovers Erskine's location and sends assassin Heinz Kruger to kill him. Erskine subjects Rogers to the super-soldier treatment, injecting him with a special serum and dosing him with "vita-rays". After Rogers emerges from the experiment taller and more muscular, an undercover Kruger kills Erskine and flees with a vial of the serum. Rogers pursues and captures Kruger, but the assassin avoids interrogation by committing suicide with a cyanide capsule. With Erskine dead and his super-soldier formula lost, U.S. Senator Brandt has Rogers tour the nation in a colorful costume as "Captain America" to promote war bonds while scientists study him and attempt to reverse-engineer the formula. In 1943, while on tour in Italy performing for active servicemen, Rogers learns that Barnes' unit was MIA in a battle against Schmidt's forces. Refusing to believe that Barnes is dead, Rogers has Carter and engineer Howard Stark fly him behind enemy lines to mount a solo rescue attempt. Rogers infiltrates the fortress of Schmidt's Hydra division, freeing Barnes and the other prisoners. Rogers confronts Schmidt, who removes a mask to reveal a red, skull-like visage that earned him the sobriquet "the Red Skull". Schmidt escapes and Rogers returns to base with the freed soldiers.

Rogers recruits Barnes, Dum Dum Dugan, Gabe Jones, Jim Morita, James Montgomery Falsworth, and Jacques Dernier to attack other known Hydra bases. Stark outfits Rogers with advanced equipment, most notably a circular shield made of vibranium, a rare, nearly indestructible metal. Rogers and his team sabotage various Hydra operations, while he and Carter begin to fall in love. In 1945, the team assaults a train carrying Zola. Rogers and Jones succeed in capturing Zola, but Barnes falls from the train to his apparent death.efn|Speaking together, with some crosstalk, Joe Johnston, Shelly Johnson, and Jeffrey Ford said on the audio commentary that the experiments performed by Zola enabled Barnes to survive the fall shown in the film.<ref name="DVD" /> Using information extracted from Zola, the final Hydra stronghold is located, and Rogers leads an attack to stop Schmidt from using weapons of mass destruction on major American cities. Rogers climbs aboard Schmidt's aircraft as it takes off. During the subsequent fight, the Tesseract's container is damaged. Schmidt physically handles the Tesseract, causing him to be sucked into a portal into space. The Tesseract burns through the plane and is lost in the ocean. Seeing no way to land the plane without the risk of detonating its weapons, Rogers radios Carter and says goodbye to her before crashing in the Arctic. Stark later recovers the Tesseract from the ocean floor but is unable to locate Rogers or the aircraft, presuming him dead.

Rogers awakens in a 1940s-styled hospital room. Hearing a radio broadcast of a baseball game that he attended in 1941, Rogers grows suspicious, flees outside and finds himself in present-day Times Square, where S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury informs him that he has been "asleep" for nearly 70 years. In a post-credits scene, Fury approaches Rogers and proposes a mission with worldwide ramifications.efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012)

####Captain America: The Winter Soldier####

Two years after the Battle of New York,efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012)<ref name="CapTWSSynopsis1" /> Steve Rogers works in Washington, D.C., for the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D., while adjusting to contemporary society. During a mission alongside Agent Natasha Romanoff and S.H.I.E.L.D.'s counter-terrorism S.T.R.I.K.E. team led by Agent Brock Rumlow to free hostages aboard a S.H.I.E.L.D. vessel from pirates led by Georges Batroc, Rogers discovers Romanoff has another agenda: to extract data from the ship's computers.

Returning to the Triskelion, S.H.I.E.L.D.'s headquarters, Rogers confronts Director Nick Fury and is briefed about Project Insight: three Helicarriers linked to spy satellites, designed to preemptively eliminate threats. Unable to decrypt Romanoff's data, Fury becomes suspicious about Insight and asks senior S.H.I.E.L.D. official and Secretary of Internal Security Alexander Pierce to delay the project. On his way to rendezvous with Maria Hill, Fury is ambushed by assailants led by an assassin called the Winter Soldier. Escaping to Rogers' apartment, Fury warns him that S.H.I.E.L.D. is compromised, but is wounded by the Winter Soldier, before handing Rogers a flash drive containing the ship's data. Fury is pronounced dead during surgery, and Hill recovers the body. The next day, Pierce summons Rogers to the Triskelion.

When Rogers withholds Fury's information, Pierce brands him a fugitive. Hunted by S.T.R.I.K.E., Rogers meets with Romanoff. Using the data, they discover a secret S.H.I.E.L.D. bunker in New Jersey, where they activate a supercomputer containing the preserved consciousness of Arnim Zola. Zola informs them that after being captured by Rogers during World War II,efn|As depicted in "Captain America: The First Avenger" (2011) he was recruited to S.H.I.E.L.D., where he secretly reformed Hydra within its ranks, sowing global chaos to make humanity surrender its freedom in exchange for security, using the Winter Soldier as their primary assassin. The pair narrowly escape death when a S.H.I.E.L.D. missile destroys the bunker, and realize that Pierce is Hydra's leader within S.H.I.E.L.D. Rogers and Romanoff enlist the help of VA employee and former USAF pararescueman Sam Wilson, whom Rogers befriended, and acquire a powered "Falcon" wingpack used by Wilson while he was in the Air Force.

They capture S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Jasper Sitwell, a Hydra mole, forcing him to divulge that Zola developed a data-mining algorithm that can identify individuals becoming threats to Hydra. The Insight Helicarriers will sweep the globe, using satellite-guided guns to eliminate them. Sitwell is killed in an ambush by the Winter Soldier, whom Rogers recognizes as Bucky Barnes, his longtime best friend previously thought dead; he had survived due to Zola's experimentation and has been repeatedly brainwashed and cryogenically frozen to perform Hydra's missions. Hill manages to extract the trio to a safehouse where Fury, who had faked his death, plans to sabotage the Helicarriers by replacing their controller chips.

After the World Security Council members arrive for the Helicarriers' launch, Rogers broadcasts Hydra's plot to everyone at the Triskelion. Romanoff, disguised as one of the Council members, disarms Pierce. Fury arrives and forces Pierce to unlock S.H.I.E.L.D.'s database so that Romanoff can leak classified information, exposing Hydra to the public. Following a struggle, Fury fatally shoots Pierce. Rogers and Wilson storm two Helicarriers and replace the controller chips, but Barnes destroys Wilson's suit and fights Rogers on the third. Rogers fends him off and replaces the final chip, allowing Hill to take control and have the vessels destroy each other.

Rogers refuses to fight Barnes in an attempt to reach his friend, but as the ship collides with the Triskelion, Rogers falls into the Potomac River. Barnes rescues the unconscious Rogers before disappearing into the woods. With S.H.I.E.L.D. in disarray, Romanoff appears before a Senate subcommittee to defend her and Rogers' actions, while Fury, under the cover of his apparent death, heads to Eastern Europe in pursuit of Hydra's remaining cells. Rogers and Wilson decide to find Barnes, while Rumlow, who was a Hydra agent, is hospitalized following the Triskelion's destruction.

In a mid-credits scene, Baron Wolfgang von Strucker, at a Hydra lab, proclaims that the "age of miracles" has begun as scientists examine an energy-filled scepterefn|Identified off-screen as the scepter used by Loki in "The Avengers".<ref name="CraveLoki" /><!-- NOTE! Please see that this footnote DOES INDICATE THIS IS LOKI'S SCEPTER, as it is not identified in the film --> and two test subjects: one with superhuman speed, the other with telekinetic powers.efn|Identified off-screen as Pietro and Wanda Maximoff.<ref name="OlsenTaylorJohnson" /> In a post-credits scene, Barnes visits his own memorial at the Smithsonian Institution.

####Captain Marvel (film)####
####The Cave (2005 film)####

During the Cold War era, a group of Soviet and British plunderers drive to an abandoned 13th-century abbey in the Carpathian Mountains.

Within the derelict abbey are many mosaics depicting mythological creatures and winged demons. The men wish to access the vaults beneath the floor, and set up a dynamite charge, but the entire floor splits beneath them and they fall through to the bottom of a vast cave system. The explosion also triggers a landslide which demolishes the abbey and covers the opening above the men. They descend further into the cave in the hope of finding a way out, and hear strange rattling sounds in the darkness.

Some time later in 2005, a team led by Dr Nicolai, with his associate Dr Kathryn Jennings and cameraman Alex Kim, are excavating the site of the former abbey. They find an opening and examine some of the curious mosaics which are still intact inside the ruins. After further research, Dr Nicolai discovers a river that stretches for miles inside the cave system. Local biologists believe the cave could contain an undiscovered ecosystem, so Dr Nicolai hires a group of American divers led by brothers Jack and Tyler McAllister – thrill seeking professional cave explorers who run a world famous scuba diving team.

The divers arrive in Romania with a modified rebreather which allows a diver to remain submerged for up to 24 hours. The team includes rock-climbing professional Charlie, first scout Briggs, sonar expert Strode, and survival expert Top Buchanan.

The group descend on cables to the base camp they have set up below. Briggs is chosen to go into the river first to scout ahead. After following the river for two miles he sees something in the distance, but before he can provide more details the server crashes and he loses contact.

Jack and the rest of the group press on, thinking the problem is simply an equipment malfunction. They eventually find Briggs safe downriver. But Strode is suddenly attacked and dragged away by a large, strange creature. As Strode fights for his life, he grabs on to his water scooter and turns it on full speed, but the creature latches on to Strode and pulls him back into a dark crevice. The water scooter speeds off on its own and crashes into the cave wall causing a rock fall.

The group start to look for Strode but Jack calls them back. He realizes the cave-in has now forced them to follow the river and search for a new way out. Dr Nicolai believes they should wait to be rescued, but Jack reminds Nicolai that they are three miles below the surface entrance and their support crew is not scheduled to retrieve them for 12 days.

Jack and Top decide to follow the river together along the line left by Strode. Jack is seized by one of the creatures that attacked Strode, but is able to fight it off. When the men make it back to the team, Jack has three deep cuts on his back, as well as a huge claw he severed from the creature.

Kathryn looks at cells from the claw under a microscope and notices a mutation within them. She realizes the mutations indicate the presence of a parasite. Nicolai discovers the same parasite in all of the lifeforms they find. The known cave species all originated above ground, she explains, but have adapted over generations to life underground. Kathryn theorizes this new parasite originated in the cave environment and has never been exposed to the outside world.

The team stumble across the equipment and remains of previous explorers and also find a femur bone with large teeth marks, unaware they are themselves being stalked by the creatures. The team is obliged to descend through a series of rapids. Tyler sees Nicolai hanging on to the side of the cave, his leg badly injured, but is sucked down into the current, before he can help. As everyone starts to surface, they hear Nicolai screaming. Jack volunteers to retrieve him and swims over, but as he approaches, Nicolai is dragged underwater by one of the creatures. Jack lights a flare and swims deep below the surface, where he can see the creature pulling Nicolai to his death. However, Jack clearly sees tattooed letters on the creature's hands, proving the mutants were once human.

Jack regroups with the team on shore. But his senses and physical features are beginning to transform as a result of the scratches he got earlier. His hearing has improved significantly and his other senses are heightened. When Jack tells them they must go back up the cave wall to escape, Charlie scales the wall but is soon attacked by a creature hidden in the passage above. The human-sized winged mutation kills her on the cliff face in full view of the team.

As Jack exhibits super-keen senses and inhumanly slanted pupils, Kathryn theorises that what is happening to Jack has happened before. She speculates that Jack, the previous explorers and all the ecosystem's creatures mutated due to the parasite; the infected humans now resemble the winged demons depicted in the mosaics. Witnessing Jack's transformation, some of the survivors question his judgement and the team splits up. Alex, Briggs and Kathryn go their own way, while Top and Tyler stay with Jack.

Jack, Top and Tyler discover a cavern littered with human skeletons and realize this is the ancient battleground depicted in the mosaics; the abbey's residents battled these creatures centuries ago and sealed the cave to prevent them from escaping. Jack notices there is light and cold water coming through the center of the river, which confirms this is the passageway out of the cave. He lets Tyler go back to find the others, but in doing so he witnesses Briggs's death - impaled on spikes on the cave wall.

Tyler saves Kathryn and brings her to the passageway. On their way back, they meet Alex and all run to rejoin Jack and Top. However, the creatures have entered the cavern and stolen the rebreathers necessary to navigate the passage. Top, Kathryn, Tyler and Alex run into the river toward the passageway, but Alex is killed before he can get in the water, a creature grabbing him from above. Jack causes a distraction, allowing the others to escape while he sacrifices himself by battling the creatures. The three resurface in a huge canyon and are finally safe.

The survivors return to civilization and Top departs. A little while later, Tyler and Kathryn meet up and he asks her if Jack could have survived out in the open in his mutated state. Kathryn says she had originally thought the parasite could only survive underground, but now she is uncertain; she suspects the parasite wants to get out. When she lowers her sunglasses, it is clear that Kathryn's eyes have mutated just like Jack's. Kathryn then quickly walks away, as Tyler realizes she knows she is infected with the parasite, and that she intends to remain free, able to infect others. He runs after her, but she disappears in the crowd.

####Chain Reaction (1996 film)####
While working with a team from the University of Chicago to convert hydrogen from water into clean energy, machinist Eddie Kasalivich inadvertently discovers the secret: a sound frequency that perfectly stabilizes their process. As the project team celebrates with a party at the lab,  Dr. Paul Shannon, the leader of the project, and Dr. Alistair Barkley, the project manager, argue because Alistair wants to share the science and Paul thinks the US should keep the news to itself. After the party, project physicist Dr. Lily Sinclair finds her car unable to start, so Eddie gets her home by bus. Back in the lab, Alistair and assistant Dr. Lu Chen are on their computers preparing to upload their discovery to the Internet so they can share the breakthrough with the world, when a band of men enter the lab and attack the pair.

Returning to the lab to get his motorcycle, Eddie hears alarms and runs inside to find Alistair dead with a plastic bag over his head and Chen missing. As the hydrogen reactor has become dangerously unstable, Eddie, unable to shut it down, speeds away on his motorbike as a concealed detonator triggers a massive hydrogen explosion that destroys the lab and surrounding streets.

Upon returning from questioning by the FBI to their homes, Eddie and Lily realize that they are being framed, with planted evidence found in both of their houses. The two flee to an observatory belonging to Maggie McDermott, an old friend of Eddie's. They contact Paul, but they are almost caught in the process and narrowly escape. As the pair are evading more police, Paul meets with Lyman Earl Collier at C-Systems Research complex to discuss the current events. It becomes apparent that Lyman and the CIA orchestrated the plot to destroy the lab and frame the pair for it. Despite some disagreement, Paul and Lyman decide to continue the hunt for the pair, a task facilitated when Eddie sends a coded message to Paul arranging a meeting. At their rendezvous, Paul reveals his involvement, but Lyman’s thugs (the ones who murdered Alistair) capture Lily while Eddie barely escapes.

After tracing the license plate on the thugs' van, Eddie tracks them to the secret C-Systems Research facility where Paul and Lyman are forcing Lily and Chen who had been kidnapped, to replicate the project. Eddie sneaks in during the night and proceeds to "fix" the system.

The next morning, one of the other scientists discovers the working reactor and everyone celebrates. A suspicious Paul immediately obtains a download of the working data, and secretly gives it to his assistant, Anita, for safekeeping. He then finds Eddie at a computer in the company boardroom, who demands his release in exchange for making the reactor work. Paul agrees but Lyman refuses, believing that the process already works, so Eddie sets the reactor to explode while sending proof of his innocence to the FBI and blueprints of the reactor to "hopefully a couple thousand" international scientists. Lyman responds by shooting Chen dead, then locking in Eddie and Lily to die in the explosion.

Paul kills Lyman for overstepping the bounds of the program, leaving the body to be incinerated in the explosion. During his own escape, he deactivates the containment system, allowing Eddie and Lily to escape. They are attacked by Lyman's henchmen (Yusef Reed and Clancy Butler), but escape moments before a blast wave sweeps through the complex (incinerating both Reed and Butler's corpses).

Having survived the shockwave, Eddie and Lily are met by FBI agents Ford and Doyle, now convinced of their innocence, who take them to safety. Paul is shown departing the scene via chauffeured limo, and the last scene has him dictating a memo to his secretary Anita, which informs the Director of the CIA that "...C-System [is] no longer a viable entity."

####Chameleon (1998 film)####
Kam (Bobbie Phillips) is a genetic creation, made to be a super killer. She, however, discovers her maternal instincts while trying to protect a child from government.

####Chameleon 3: Dark Angel####
In the third and last film of the trilogy, Kam, a genetically engineered agent, attempts to thwart the plans of her evil twin brother.

####Chameleon II: Death Match####
Kam (Bobbie Phillips), a genetically altered agent, is called back to action when the clientele of a luxury casino is taken hostage by an audacious criminal.

####Chaos Walking (film)####
In 2257 AD, the colonists of the planet New World, all men, have been afflicted with a condition called the Noise, which causes everyone to see and hear each other's thoughts. The colonists were involved in a bitter war with the native humanoid species referred to as The Spackle, a war that ostensibly killed all female colonists, while half the men survived. Todd Hewitt lives in Prentisstown with his adoptive fathers, Ben Moore and Cillian Boyd. Other residents include the preacher Aaron, the town's mayor David Prentiss, and his son Davy. Prentiss has learned to control his Noise, making his thoughts difficult to see and hear. A spaceship that lost contact with the First Colony approaches New World and a scout ship is sent to investigate the planet, but it crashes. One day, Todd discovers someone stealing something and chases the thief, only to come upon the crash site.

Todd returns to the town and tries to keep quiet, but the other men hear and see his thoughts about the crashed ship. They head to investigate the crash scene and scavenge some parts of the ship, but find no survivors. While Todd is alone, he meets Viola, the ship's only survivor. He is shocked to see a girl, as he has never seen one before. The men from Prentisstown capture Viola and she is brought to the mayor's home, where she is questioned about where she came from. Prentiss explains to her what the Noise is and what has happened on their planet. While he leaves to go speak to the men, Davy is charged with keeping an eye on her. Davy unwittingly toys with one of Viola's gadgets, which causes it to shoot large holes in the walls, helping Viola escape.

During her escape, Viola overhears Prentiss talking about preventing her from contacting the colony's mothership, intercepting their landing, killing them while they are still under cryosleep, and scavenging the ship. Viola hides in Todd's family's barn, where Todd eventually finds her. Todd tries to hide Viola, when one of Prentiss' men arrives looking for her. Ben tells Todd about another settlement called Farbranch and says Viola will be safe there.

Viola escapes on a motorcycle while Todd chases after her on one of the horses. Prentiss and the men arrive at the farm, demanding Viola back as they believe she is a spy. Davy kills Cillian, and Ben is forced to join them. Meanwhile, Todd catches up to Viola and the two begin a journey to Farbranch, accompanied by Todd's dog, Manchee. During the journey, Viola reveals to Todd that she is from a large Colony Ship carrying over four thousand passengers and that her parents died during the 64 year-long journey from Earth to New World. Todd reveals he never knew his real parents. When they encounter a Spackle, Todd attempts to kill it in self-defense, but Viola stops him because it does not appear to be dangerous. They arrive at Farbranch, a town inhabited by men, women and children, some of whom are displeased with Todd's presence, because he is from Prentisstown.

Todd discovers his mother's diary, but Viola reads it to him because he cannot. The diary reveals that the women were not killed by the native aliens, but rather by Prentiss and the men of Prentisstown. The men could not stand not knowing the thoughts of the women, when they could hear theirs, which drove them crazy. Angered, Todd realizes that everything he had been told was a lie. Prentiss and his men arrive, again demanding Viola. Ben tries to get Todd to surrender Viola, but Todd is upset at him for lying. Ben uses his Noise to create an image of Viola to distract Prentiss and his men, while Todd and Viola escape. Aaron chases them. They come upon a boat, and, as they escape, Aaron kills Manchee, further enraging Todd.

The next day, Viola and Todd arrive at the ruins of the first colony ship. They enter it and try to send a signal to the colony ship, but the antenna is damaged, so Todd attempts to repair it. When Prentiss and his men arrive, Todd surrenders himself, as Prentiss is holding Ben hostage. Aaron goes inside to kill Viola, but she immolates him with one of her gadgets. Todd appears, but Prentiss shoots Ben. Todd goes to him and, unknown to Prentiss, Ben gives him a knife. Todd engages Prentiss, but he uses illusions of himself to distract Todd and shoots him. As he is about to kill Todd, Todd uses illusions of his mother and other women, calling Prentiss a coward. Viola pushes Prentiss off the cliff ledge to his death. The colony ship appears in the sky, causing Davy and the remaining Prentisstown men to flee.

Todd wakes up in the colony ship's medical room, almost fully healed. Viola takes him to meet other colonists.

####Chappie (film)####
####Cherry 2000####
####Children of Men####
In the year 2027, after eighteen years of total human infertility, war and global depression have pushed society to the brink of collapse as humanity faces extinction. The United Kingdom has become a police state in which immigrants (derogatorily referred to as "'fugees") are arrested and either imprisoned or executed; still, as one of the few remaining nations with a functioning government, it is deluged by refugees fleeing chaos in their own countries.

The story begins just after the youngest person in the world, 18-year-old "Baby" Diego Ricardo, has been killed; Theo Faron, a former activist turned cynical bureaucrat, catches the news in a coffee shop. Moments after he leaves the shop, it explodes in a bombing. Theo is kidnapped by the Fishes, a militant immigrant-rights group led by Theo's estranged wife, Julian Taylor; the pair separated after their son's death during a 2008 flu pandemic. Julian offers Theo money to acquire transit papers for a young refugee woman named Kee. Theo obtains the documents from his cousin, a government minister, and agrees to escort Kee in exchange for a larger sum of money. Luke, a Fishes leader, drives Theo, Kee, Julian, and former midwife Miriam towards Canterbury, but an armed gang ambushes them and kills Julian. Two police officers later stop their car; Luke kills them, and the group hides Julian's body before heading to a safe house.

Kee reveals to Theo that she is pregnant, making her the only known pregnant woman in the world. Julian had intended to take her to the Human Project, a semi-legendary, secretive scientific group in the Azores dedicated to curing humanity's infertility, which Theo believes does not exist. Luke becomes the new leader of the Fishes, and that night, Theo eavesdrops on a discussion and learns that the Fishes orchestrated Julian's death so that Luke could become their leader, and that they intend to kill him and use Kee's baby as a political tool. Theo wakes Kee and Miriam, and they escape to the secluded hideaway of Theo's reclusive, ageing hippie friend Jasper Palmer, a former political cartoonist whose wife was tortured into catatonia by the British government for her activism.

The group plans to reach the Human Project ship, the "Tomorrow", scheduled to arrive offshore at Bexhill-on-Sea, a notorious immigrant detention centre. Jasper plans to use Syd, an immigration officer to whom Jasper sells cannabis, to smuggle them into Bexhill as refugees. The next day, the Fishes discover Jasper's house, and the group is forced to flee. Jasper stays behind to stall them, and is murdered by Luke as Theo watches. Theo, Kee, and Miriam meet with Syd, who helps them board a bus into the camp. When Kee begins experiencing contractions, Miriam distracts a guard by feigning religious mania and is taken away.

Inside the camp, Theo and Kee meet a Romani woman, Marichka, who provides a room where Kee gives birth to a baby girl. Syd tells Theo and Kee the next day that war has broken out between the British military and the refugees, and that the Fishes have infiltrated the camp; he then reveals that Theo and Kee have a bounty on their heads and attempts to capture them. Theo subdues Syd with Marichka's help; they escape but are ambushed by the Fishes, who capture Kee and the baby. Theo tracks them to an apartment building that is under heavy fire. Theo confronts Luke, who is killed in an explosion, and Theo escorts Kee and the baby out. Awed by the baby, the British soldiers and Fishes temporarily stop fighting and allow the trio to leave. Marichka leads them to the boat but chooses to stay behind as they depart.

As British fighter jets conduct airstrikes on Bexhill, Theo and Kee row to the rendezvous point in heavy fog. Theo reveals that he was shot and wounded by Luke earlier; he teaches Kee how to burp her baby, and she tells him she will name the baby girl Dylan, after Theo's and Julian's lost son. Theo smiles weakly, then loses consciousness as the "Tomorrow" approaches. As the screen cuts to black, children's laughter is heard.

####Choke Canyon####
Harvard educated Dr. David Lowell's (Collins) research is carried out in the canyon country of southern Utah and must be conducted at the same time Halley's Comet is passing over the earth. Lowell is trying to find a safe, cheap energy source using the sound waves the comet generates.

Lowell leased the land from the Pilgrim Corporation. However, the Pilgrim Corporation decides the same canyon would be better used as a remote place to illegally dump nuclear waste. Pilgrim's CEO  (Nicholas Pryor) arranges for Lowell to be thrown off his land and destroys his laboratory.

Lowell spends the rest of the film committing sabotage against the company and trying to recover his land, assisted by the daughter of Pilgrim's CEO (Janet Julian) as well as unlikely help from a hit-man sympathetic to Lowell's cause (Bo Svenson). Brook Alistair (Lance Henriksen), hired by the Pilgrim Corporation, attempts to stop Lowell.

####Chronicle (film)####
Seattle teenager Andrew Detmer is constantly picked on by bullies and abused by his alcoholic father Richard, while also coping with his loving mother Karen's battle with cancer. His only friend is his maternal cousin, Matt Garetty. Inspired by Matt's on-and-off girlfriend Casey, Andrew buys a camera to make a video diary about his situation.

Matt invites Andrew to a party to help him mingle, but his filming causes an altercation with an attendee and he leaves. Popular student Steve Montgomery finds Andrew outside and asks him to come record a large hole he and Matt came across in the woods. The three journey down the hole through a small tunnel where they discover a glowing crystalline object. The object suddenly begins to react violently and the camera shorts out.

Weeks later, Andrew videotapes him, Matt, and Steve having developed telekinetic abilities, but suffer nosebleeds when they overexert themselves. Unable to revisit the hole after it is closed off by police, they start using their abilities to play pranks on people in a shopping center. However, this goes too far when Andrew telekinetically pushes a rude motorist off the road into a nearby pond. After the trio manage to save the man from drowning, Matt insists that they restrict use of their powers, particularly against living beings.

Steve discovers they have flight abilities and the trio agree to fly around the world together following graduation, with Andrew in particular desiring to visit Tibet. Steve encourages Andrew to enter the school talent show, using his powers as a magic act. This amazes their peers, and Andrew relishes his newfound popularity at a house party, but the night ends in disaster when a drunken Andrew goes upstairs to have sex with a classmate who he subsequently vomits on. Steve, who has taken over the camera, accidentally offends the humiliated Andrew when trying to lighten the mood.

Richard views the party footage on Andrew's camera and irrationally confronts him. In retaliation, Andrew uses his powers to violently repel him and flees the house, then creates a storm in his increased agitation. This causes Steve and Matt to suffer nosebleeds, indicating their powers are symbiotic. While Matt ignores his, Steve flies out to find Andrew sobbing in the middle of a storm. He attempts to console him, but Andrew becomes increasingly frustrated before Steve is suddenly struck by lightning and killed. At Steve's funeral, Matt cuts ties with Andrew after questioning him on the suspicious circumstances of Steve's death. Andrew denies responsibility, but later privately begs forgiveness at Steve's grave.

Andrew is once again ostracized at school due to the party incident. After using his powers to rip teeth out of a bully's mouth, Andrew begins to identify as an apex predator and rationalizes that he should not feel guilty for using his powers to hurt those weaker than him. Desperate to pay for his mother's medication, Andrew disguises himself with his father's firefighter gear and uses his powers to steal money. After mugging a local gang, he robs a gas station but inadvertently causes an explosion that puts him in the hospital. At his bedside, a distraught Richard informs a seemingly-unconscious Andrew that Karen has died and angrily blames Andrew for her death, Richard having spent the day searching for his son. As his father is about to strike him, Andrew awakens and abruptly grabs his arm before blowing out the wall of the room.

At a birthday party, Matt experiences a severe nosebleed and senses Andrew is in trouble. Seeing a news alert on TV about a mysterious explosion downtown, he and Casey head to the hospital. After saving Richard when Andrew attempts to drop him to his death, while also ensuring Casey's safety, Matt attempts to reason with Andrew at the Space Needle, but Andrew is too far gone and attacks Matt while also taking out his rage on Downtown, crashing through buildings and hurling vehicles. Eventually, the two wind up in a plaza where police surround them. Andrew's rage reaches a breaking point and he begins to destroy the buildings around him. Realizing that Andrew can't be stopped or reasoned with, Matt reluctantly impales Andrew with a spear from a nearby statue, killing him instantly. Despite his injuries, Matt is able to fly away before the police can reach him.

Some time later, Matt lands in Tibet with Andrew's camera, tearfully apologizing to him while vowing to use his powers for good and find out what happened in the hole. He points the camera at a Tibetan monastery in the distance before flying away, leaving the camera behind.

####The Chronicles of Riddick####
Fugitive Riddick has been in hiding, evading bounty hunters and mercenaries sent to capture him. After killing a crew led by mercenary Toombs and stealing his ship on planet U.V., he heads to New Mecca on the planet Helion Prime, after Toombs reveals his bounty originated there. Riddick is reunited with Imam, a holy man he rescued five years earlier. Imam believes Riddick is a Furyan, a member of a race of warriors long thought extinct, and wants to know about his homeworld and if anyone other than himself is left. Imam believes Helion Prime is the next planet to be conquered by a mysterious force crusading across the stars. Aereon, an Air Elemental, identifies the army as the Necromongers, religious fanatics who seek to convert all human life and kill those who refuse. The Necromongers attack and take control of the capital in a single night. In the battle, Imam is killed and Riddick escapes.

The next day, the Necromonger high priest called "The Purifier" coerces the populace into converting, except for Riddick, who kills the man who killed Imam. Intrigued, the Necromongers' leader, the Lord Marshal, orders Riddick be scanned by the Quasi-Dead, half-dead telepaths, who determine that he is indeed a Furyan survivor. Lord Marshal orders Riddick's death, but Riddick escapes only to be recaptured by Toombs. Riddick is taken to Crematoria, a harsh subterranean prison moon, where Jack, the girl Riddick also rescued, is being held.

The Lord Marshal sends Commander Vaako to hunt Riddick down. Vaako's wife speaks to Aereon, who reveals that Furya was devastated by the Lord Marshal after he was told a child from that planet would kill him. Dame Vaako and her husband determine Lord Marshal wants Riddick dead, as he may be the child of said prophecy. On Crematoria, a disagreement breaks out between Toombs and the prison warden over what Toombs is owed for Riddick's bounty. Word about the Necromongers has reached the prison warden, who deduces that Toombs has stolen Riddick from them. In the prison, Riddick finds Jack, now named Kyra, and they reconcile with each other.

The guards kill the bounty hunters except for Toombs, take the reward money, and prepare to leave before the Necromongers arrive. After leaving Toombs in a cell, Riddick escapes the prison and leads several prisoners across Crematoria's volcanic surface to steal the ship. The guards reach the hangar, just as the prisoners arrive to find the Necromongers have cornered them there. All of the guards and prisoners are killed, and Riddick is incapacitated by Vaako. With the approach of the deadly sunrise, Vaako leaves Riddick to die and the Necromongers capture Kyra.

Riddick is saved by the Purifier, who tells him that if he stays away from the Necromongers, the Lord Marshal promises not to hunt him. The Purifier then reveals that he too is a Furyan and encourages Riddick to kill the Lord Marshal before committing suicide by walking out into the scorching heat. Riddick then flies back to Helion Prime using Toombs's spacecraft. Meanwhile, Vaako reports Riddick dead and is promoted to a higher rank by the Lord Marshal.

Riddick infiltrates the main hall on the Necromongers' flagship, where Dame Vaako sees him but encourages her husband not to warn the Lord Marshal and to let Riddick strike first and pave the way for Vaako to kill the Lord Marshal and take his place as leader. When Riddick attacks, the Lord Marshal presents Kyra, who appears to have been converted. Riddick fights the Lord Marshal in front of his army, who keeps the upper hand with his supernatural powers. When it appears that Riddick is about to be killed, Kyra stabs the Lord Marshal in the back with a spear and he punches her into a column of spikes, mortally wounding her. Vaako attempts to strike the wounded Lord Marshal, who uses his powers to evade the blow but is stopped by Riddick, who takes the opportunity and swiftly kills him. Kyra dies in Riddick's arms just before the Necromongers, including Vaako, kneel before Riddick as their new leader.

####The Chronicles of Riddick: Dark Fury####
Shortly after escaping from the dark planet, Riddick, Jack, and the Imam are picked up by "Kublai Khan", a private mercenary vessel. Although Riddick attempts to conceal his identity from the mercenaries by impersonating his former captor William J. Johns over the ship's radio, they quickly voice-print and identify him. The vessel's captain, Junner, assembles a crew of mercs to retrieve Riddick, who manages to get the drop on them by activating his ship's fire suppression system and using the foam as cover. After easily killing most of the mercs, Riddick surrenders when Jack is captured and held at gunpoint by Junner.

The trio of survivors discover that their captors have unusual plans for them. They are introduced to Antonia Chillingsworth (Tress MacNeille), who collects notorious criminals and keeps them in a state of suspended animation where they are still alive but are unable to speak or move. She explains that, in her view, this is both a fitting punishment and a way for said killers to be honored for what they are. She intends to do the same to Riddick, but first, she forces him to fight for Jack and Iman's lives by putting them in an arena with two "Shrills", bio-luminescent creatures that resemble parasitic jellyfish.

Riddick kills both creatures and uses his knife to extract an explosive planted in his neck by Junner to keep him in line; realizing his plan, Chillingsworth detonates the explosive, creating an exit for the trio to escape through. She angrily orders Junner to wake up more mercenaries, including a cunning merc by the name of Toombs, and also releases a dangerous carnivorous alien to hunt them. Riddick has Iman take Jack up to the flight deck and uses his own blood to trick the alien into slaughtering the pursuing mercs (except for Toombs, who manages to hide in a pipe). He then surprises and kills the alien.

Junner, anticipating Riddick's plan, knocks out Iman and tries to strangle Jack before Riddick confronts him. The two men are evenly matched until Riddick maneuvers Junner into severing a power cable with his sword, putting out the lights and giving Riddick an opening to stab Junner in the eye. A deranged Chillingsworth then appears and is about to kill Riddick when Jack picks up Junner's rifle and shoots her in the head. As the trio departs on a dropship, Imam expresses concern that Jack will become exactly like Riddick if they continue to travel together. Agreeing, Riddick decides to leave them at New Mecca while he goes into hiding. Meanwhile, Toombs, having assumed command of "Kublai Khan", sets off to capture Riddick for his bounty.

####Circuitry Man####
####City Limits (1985 film)####
####Class of 1999####

In an alternate 1990s, violence in American high schools had spiraled out of control after a series of mass shootings results in the constitution being abolished and private businesses banned, with areas in most major cities being taken over by youth gangs, resulting in some schools shutting down. Two major gangs vie for control of the former USA.

In 1999, special areas known as "free fire zones" have been established, where police have no jurisdiction, with the CIA being responsible for law enforcement. Seattle's Kennedy High School is in the middle of a free fire zone, thus the Department of Education Defense (D.E.D.), a division of the CIA, has implemented martial law. Working with MegaTech head Dr. Bob Forrest, an experiment begins where three former military robots originally built during the soviet-american war of 1991 have become android educators. Forrest introduces school coach Mr. Bryles, History teacher Mr. Hardin, and Chemistry teacher Ms. Connors to the Board of Education. Impressed with the new teachers, new principal Miles Langford has announced that former delinquents who are imprisoned will be released as part of the new experiment, which would allow new methods of discipline from the new teachers.

One such delinquent is Cody Culp, a member of the Blackhearts gang. Out of prison, Cody has decided to lie low and avoid any gang warfare, especially with the rivals Razorheads, led by Hector. After a car chase, Cody, his younger adopted brother Sonny and his younger biological brother Angel make it to school. Sonny is taken in by the new school guards after he confronts them as they check the car for weapons or drugs. Blackheart member Curt, who thanks to Angel learns Cody no longer wants to be in a gang, informs Cody that if he is not with them, then he is against them. Still, Cody sticks to laying low and attends class. In chemistry class, Ms. Connors attempts calmly talk down Hector and another Razorhead. When the two Razorheads attempt to confront Ms. Connors, she uses fighting skills to take them down and make them sit in their seats. This pleases Forrest and MegaTech, who are in the basement, disguised as a DED control center. When Mr. Hardin's history class is interrupted by a fight between Curt and Razorhead member Flavio, Hardin resorts to using corporal punishment and puts the class in line, saving the students lives. Returning home, Cody is shocked to find his brothers and his mother are addicted to the drug known as "edge". Upset and angry, he leaves and goes on his motorcycle, returning home later that night.

The next day, Flavio attempts to woo Christie, Mr. Langford's daughter, but when she resists his advances, he attempts to rape her. Cody, witnessing what is happening, fights off Flavio as well as Hector. Mr. Bryles, who sees the incident, puts Cody in a full nelson hold and takes him to the principal's office. While Langford informs Cody that he technically violated his parole with the fight, he lets him off due to the fact that he did save Christie from being raped, but has him placed under surveillence. Cody and Bryles head to physical education class, where Bryles, who is the coach, humiliates Blackheart member Mohawk while doing push-ups. When class is over, Bryles tells Cody to stay behind and begins to viciously beat him. Mohawk goes to his locker and takes some "edge" and grabs a gun. Cody, still being beaten, is seriously hurt when Bryles sees Mohawk with the gun. Bryles grabs the gun and breaks Mohawk's neck, killing him instantly. MegaTech technicians Marv and Spence are in total shock when Forrest informs them that it was self-defense with a gun.

When Sonny shows up late to Mr. Hardin's class totally high on "edge", Hardin takes him to his locker. Hardin grabs the locker door and pulls it out to find vials of "edge" in the locker. He proceeds to take the vials and force them into Sonny's mouth while pummeling his head on the lockers. Hardin kills Sonny and upon his return to class, takes Sonny's now bloodied cross and puts it in his pocket. Cody sees the cross as Hardin gives his lecture. When Langford confronts the three teachers about the death of Sonny, it soon becomes a cover-up to say Sonny died of a drug overdose. When Christie tries to convince Cody based on her father's word about Sonny, Cody is angry and is convinced Hardin killed Sonny. Apologizing to Christie the next day, he tries to convince her that Hardin had something to do with Sonny's death and the duo skip school for evidence. Christie and Cody have the teacher directory and learn that Hardin, Bryles, and Connors live in the same apartment. They break in and Cody finds the bloody cross. However, the trio of teachers arrive and catch the duo escaping. A chase ensues and ends up with the trio in the water. Having survived the car crash in the water, the trio decide to start a war between the Razorheads and the Blackhearts.

That evening, Cody and Angel once again bond over a game of basketball. When Angel, who has become a Blackheart, decides to stay behind, he is met by Bryles, Hardin, and Connors on his way home later that night. The trio chase down Angel. Bryles lifts up Angel and throws him against a wall and the trio ultimately kill him. Shortly after, Razorhead Noser is coming out of a local pizza place when he sees Connors. She kidnaps him and when the Razorheads are waiting for Noser, Noser is sent through the window of their hangout while on fire. Hector is convinced the Blackhearts did it and decide to start a war. The next morning, Cody goes to the Blackheart hangout, where he finds a dead Angel surrounded by the likes of Curt, Reedy, and Dawn. Dawn finds Angel's basketball with a message written in blood. Cody, seething with revenge, decides he wants back in the gang.

That afternoon, a war ensues between the Razorheads and Blackhearts. However, Bryles, Hardin, and Connors intercept at various times, killing members from both gangs. When Cody and Reedy go inside an abandoned building to trap Hector, Hardin grabs Reedy through a wall and splits him in half with his bare hands. When Cody shoots at Hardin, he discovers he is not human. That night, Cody tries to tell the Blackhearts that Hardin was there and that he killed Reedy. Meanwhile, Langford has gotten wind of the situation and decides to have the program terminated. However, Dr. Forrest not only decides not to terminate the program, but tells Langford that the teachers must "kill the enemy". Bryles grabs Langford by the throat and with brute force, sticks his poison-tipped fingers in Langford's throat, killing him.

Hector receives a call apparently from Cody saying he wants him one-on-one at the school entrance. Connors, kidnapping Christie, pretends to be Hector and calls Cody with the same proposition. When Dawn wonders why Hector would meet him at the school, the Blackhearts are finally convinced that the teachers are responsible. When Hector and Cody show up with both gangs, Cody attempts to tell Hector that it is not him he wants to kill. He tells Hector of the war the teachers have started. To prove he is right, Cody shows Hector Sonny's bloody cross. The Razorheads and the Blackhearts decide to team up and take on the teachers, who are waiting in the school. While they look for Christie and the teachers, they soon learn of the real situation with the teachers. Ms. Connors' arm becomes a flame thrower. Bryles' arm becomes a missile launcher. While many Razorheads and Blackhearts fall victim to the teachers including Flavio and Dawn, Curt and Cody find Christie. There, they find Hardin. They attempt to shoot down Hardin, but he is too powerful as he grabs Cody with one hand and grabs Curt with his other hand, which has become a grip with a drill attached. Curt is killed by the drill. Hardin attempts to do the same to Cody when Cody reaches for a machine gun and shoots Hardin through the mouth numerous times, destroying him instantly.

Cody and Christie see Ms. Connors and are chased to the chemistry lab. Cody, noticing that Connors has an exposed area of flammable gas, distracts her in time to grab an axe after he instructs Christie to turn on all of the gas in the room. When he throws the axe at the exposed area, he and Christie run out of the lab. Connors, unleashing the flame thrower, fatally explodes due to the flame hitting the gas. Hector, the only other survivor alongside Cody and Christie, meet up with the duo and are seen by Bryles. Hector provides a distraction while Cody and Christie head for a bus, which Cody hotwires, drives fast, and is able to run down Bryles at the school entrance just as Cody and Christie leap out of the bus. The bus explodes but all three are safe. When they hear a noise in the school, they go check it out. However, a now half-human, half-robot Bryles escapes from under the bus.

Hector, Cody, and Christie find Dr. Forrest who takes Christie hostage. When Cody tells Forrest it is too late, Forrest is convinced that he can somehow continue the project. When Hector attempts to shoot Forrest, he is shot and killed. Forrest then attempts to kill Cody, but Bryles comes up from behind him and rips his heart out, killing him instantly. Cody and Christie are at first overpowered by Bryles until Cody finds a forklift and impales Bryles. Christie grabs the nearest chain and puts it around Bryles' neck with Cody using the forklift to lift the chain, cutting the robotic Bryles's head. Cody and Christie, the only survivors, walk out of the badly damaged school in safety.

####Class of 1999 II: The Substitute####
John Bolen is the new substitute teacher at a local high school in Bend, Oregon. When he sees some punks ditching class, he confronts them. When the lead punk pulls a knife, John uses martial arts to dispatch the students and when a fellow teacher sees the downed punks, John informs the teacher that the punks were on their way to class. Afterwards, the principal threatens to have John fired for his actions that morning, but John kills him by breaking his neck. At the same time, the punks wait in their car until school is over to confront John. John gets the upper hand by chaining the doors so they cannot escape and throws a grenade in the car, causing it to explode. Afterwards, John is in his car, eating his dinner, when he sees an advertisement for a military museum in Monroeville, California. Meanwhile, in Monroeville, Jenna McKenzie is a teacher who is getting heat from the school administration because she had witnessed gang leader Sanders pull a gun on a student. Sanders uses all sorts of tactics to harass Jenna into not testifying against him in court. However, Jenna's boyfriend, Emmett Grazer, tends to be there to chase Sanders away much to the chagrin of Jenna, who feels she doesn't need the protection 24-7.

When John arrives to teach his class, he finds trouble in the form of student Tiller, a local troublemaker. When a fellow student drops a book, John hits the floor and begins to hear gunfire in his head. He finds the book to be Tiller's and sends him to the principal's office. Tiller goes to the roof of the school to take a hit of the drug "edge" when John shows up and throws Tiller off the roof. Tiller attempts to hang onto the flagpole, but his hands slip and is hung from the flagpole dead. The next day, Jenna goes out for a jog when she finds Sanders and some of his goons begin to once again harass her. When Sanders leaves his boys to attack Jenna, John shows up in time to save her. Jenna and John soon bond and while sheriff Tom Yost is taking Jenna's report, he notices John sporting a tattoo for Special Forces. When Tom asks John about a military background, John walks away.

Emmett is in charge of a small military museum, which was advertised in the same magazine John was reading earlier, and as a military expert, he is planning a friendly paintball competition between the students. John begins to show interest in some of Emmett's military gear but is still hesitant of revealing who he really is. Meanwhile, a mysterious man named G.D. Ash is reporting on the incidents that occurred in Kennedy High School two years ago involving android instructors malfunctioning and killing the students. John and Jenna continue their friendship with John teaching Jenna a bit about military tactics and quotes. To make sure Jenna is safe, John hunts down a member of Sanders' gang and at first, use martial arts before chaining him to a wall and setting him on fire. On the day of the paintball competition, John wages war on everyone involved and even targets Emmett and Jenna. He kills some troublemaking students and when Jenna is once again confronted by Sanders, this causes John to arrive again but this time seal the deal and kill Sanders and the rest of his gang.

When Jenna confronts John, John finally reveals he is a military android. When G.D. Ash. arrives, he uncovers something interesting about John. John is not an android, but rather the son of Dr. Bob Forrest, the creator of the android teachers who killed the students at Kennedy High two years ago. John had served in the Special Forces and has suffered from post traumatic stress disorder to the point where he actually believes that he is an android. Instead, John is actually sporting a new brand of body armor, making him impervious to bullets and even blades. Ash is then killed by John. When John and Jenna end up in Emmett's military bunker, John intends to kill both himself and Jenna by planting a bomb in the bunker. However, Emmett makes the save and he and Jenna escape, but John arrives and shoots Emmett. Jenna shoots John in the head causing him to fall back into the bunker and die. Jenna covers Emmett and declares her love for him as the bunker explodes.

Two days later, Jenna is preparing for school and as she is on the phone with Emmett, opens her shirt to reveal she is wearing body armor, thanks to Emmett having a copy of the armor in his museum. Jenna repeats a line John once uttered about preparing for battle as she prepares to begin her day.

####Cloverfield####

The film is presented as footage from a personal camcorder recovered by the United States Department of Defense in the area "formerly known as Central Park", bearing a disclaimer stating multiple sightings of a case designated "Cloverfield".

This earlier footage, from April 27, 2008, shows Robert "Rob" Hawkins waking up with Elizabeth "Beth" McIntyre in her father's apartment above Columbus Circle before sharing a special day across New York City and Coney Island. Fragments of this overwritten footage appear during the course of the film.

Rob has a farewell party on May 22, 2008, thrown by his brother Jason and Jason's girlfriend Lily, celebrating Rob's new job as vice-president for a company in Japan. Jason gets Rob's best friend Hudson "Hud" Platt to film testimonials for Rob during the party. Beth, whose feelings are hurt because Rob never called her back after their one night together, brings a new man to the party. Beth and Rob argue over her guest and why Rob never called her, and Beth leaves shortly before a massive earthquake occurs, causing a brief citywide power outage; the local news reports a capsized oil tanker near Liberty Island. From the roof, the party-goers witness an explosion in the distance and flee as flaming debris flies in their direction.

As the party-goers leave the building, the severed head of the Statue of Liberty is hurled into the street in front of them. In the chaos, Hud records an enormous creature several blocks away collapsing the Woolworth Building. During the group's planned evacuation of Manhattan, the creature's tail destroys the Brooklyn Bridge, killing Jason and dozens of other people. News reports show the Army National Guard's 42nd Infantry Division attacking the monster. Smaller parasite creatures fall off its body and attack nearby pedestrians and soldiers.

Rob listens to a phone message from Beth, in which she indicates she is trapped in her apartment at the Time Warner Center and unable to move. Going against the crowd, Rob, Hud, Lily, and Hud's crush, Marlena Diamond, venture into Midtown Manhattan to rescue Beth. By 3:17&nbsp;a.m., they get caught in a battle between the creature and the Army National Guard, run into the subway, and are attacked by several of the parasites. While saving Hud, Marlena is bitten by one of the creatures. The four escape the subway and enter a below ground mall where she begins to feel unwell. They are found by military and taken to a command center and field hospital nearby. In reaction to being bitten, Marlena begins bleeding from her eyes. She is forcibly taken into a tent, where she appears to explode. Rob, still intending on saving Beth, persuades one of the military leaders to let them go. He is then informed when the last evacuation helicopter will depart before the military executes its "Hammer Down Protocol", which will destroy Manhattan in its entirety in order to kill the monster.

They travel to Beth's apartment building to discover it toppled on its side. After crossing roofs from the opposite building, the group finds her impaled on exposed rebar. They free her and make their way to the evacuation site at Grand Central Terminal, where they encounter the creature again. Lily is first rushed into a departing Marine Corps helicopter to escape before the terminal is destroyed. Moments later, Rob, Beth, and Hud are taken away in a second helicopter and witness the creature being bombed. The bombing causes the creature to fall and success is assumed, but then it lunges out of the smoke, hitting the helicopter and causing it to crash in Central Park, killing the pilot and everyone inside except Rob, Beth, and Hud.

Less than an hour later, a voice on the crashed helicopter's radio warns that the Hammer Down protocol will begin in fifteen minutes. The three friends regain consciousness, and attempt to flee; Hud turns back to retrieve the camera when the creature suddenly appears and kills him. Rob and Beth grab the camera and take shelter under an arch as sirens blare, and the bombing starts. Rob and Beth each provide their last testimony of the day's events. The bridge begins to crumble, and the camera is knocked out of Rob's hand and buried beneath rubble. Rob and Beth proclaim their love for each other just as the bomb explodes, the camera freezing up before the footage cuts.

The film ends with the finale of Rob and Beth's trip to Coney Island on a Ferris wheel. Unseen by them, an indiscernible object falls from the sky into the ocean. Just before the camera cuts out, Beth states, "I had a good day."

After the credits, a voice can be heard saying, "Help us..." When played in reverse, it says, "It's still alive."

####Congo (film)####

While searching for rare blue diamonds that could lead to a new revolutionary communications laser, TraviCom employees Charles Travis and Jeffrey Weems discover the ruins of a lost city near a volcanic site in a remote part of the Congo jungle. Karen Ross, Charles's ex-fiancée and a former CIA operative, and R. B. Travis, Charles's father and the CEO of TraviCom, lose contact with the team while tracking their progress at the company headquarters. Activating a remote camera, they find the camp destroyed and strewn with corpses, as well as a savage ape-like creature that destroys the camera. Travis asks Karen to lead another expedition to the site.

Meanwhile, Peter Elliott, a primatologist at the University of California, Berkeley, and his assistant Richard teach human communication to primates using a mountain gorilla named Amy. With a specialized backpack and glove, her sign language is translated to a digitized voice. Despite the success, Peter is concerned by Amy's drawings of jungles and the Eye of Providence, and seeks funding to return her to Africa, but the university is reluctant. Romanian philanthropist Herkermer Homolka offers to fund the expedition, and Karen asks permission to join it since her visas will be invalid unless connected to such a venture. Peter is hesitant at first, seeing Amy's jealousy of Karen, but allows her to join and pay part of the expenses after Homolka is unable to provide funding.

The group flies to Africa and lands in Uganda, where they meet wilderness guide Monroe Kelly. They are detained and questioned by Captain Wanta, a local military leader, who warns them not to trust Homolka and lets them proceed only after Karen pays him a large bribe. As the group crosses to Tanzania to board another plane that will take them to Zaire, Monroe reveals that Homolka has led previous safaris in search of the "Lost City of Zinj", with disastrous results. The group parachutes into the jungle just before their plane is shot down by Zairean soldiers.

On the ground, they encounter a native tribe that leads them to Bob Driscoll, a wounded member of Charles's expedition. On seeing Amy approaching, Bob begins screaming in fear and soon dies. The group continues by boat, and learn that Homolka, in search of Zinj and its fabled diamond mine, believes that Amy's drawings suggest she has seen the mine and can lead them to it. After an attack by massive hippos, they find the ruined camp and the nearby City of Zinj. Richard and a couple of porters are killed by a vicious grey gorilla. The group take shelter at the ruined camp, keeping other gorillas at bay with automated sentry guns and detectors.

When day breaks, they find Homolka, several porters and Amy missing. They return to the city, where they find Homolka exploring, and surmise from hieroglyphs that the city's inhabitants specially bred the grey gorillas, encouraging their violent tendencies to guard the mine and kill anyone looking to steal the diamonds. The group suspects the gorillas turned on their masters yet still continue to protect the mine. They find the mine and are faced with a troop of grey gorillas. Homolka begins to collect diamonds, but is soon cornered and killed by some of the apes. Monroe, Karen and Peter flee deeper into the mine, where they discover Jeffrey and Charles's bodies with the latter still holding a giant blue diamond in hand. As Amy protects Peter, Monroe fends off the other gorillas until Karen can fit the diamond into a portable laser, allowing her to power it up and kill several gorillas. The volcano begins to erupt, and the four escape as the city is flooded with lava, killing the gorillas.

Once safe, Karen reports to Travis on finding the diamond and confirming Charles's death. Realizing Travis was only interested in the diamond, she uses her laser to destroy the TraviCom satellite. In the nearby wreckage of another one of Travis's expedition cargo planes they had found earlier, they find a hot-air balloon, and prepare to leave. Peter sees Amy with a troop of gorillas and bids her goodbye. The three take off in the balloon, and Peter throws the diamond back into the jungle below. Amy watches the departing balloon with a smile, then joins her new gorilla family.

####The Core####
Several small, disparate incidents involving the Earth's magnetic field cause scientists led by geophysicist Dr. Josh Keyes and scientists Dr. Serge Leveque and Dr. Conrad Zimsky to conclude that the Earth's molten core has stopped rotating. Unless it can be restarted, the field will collapse within months, exposing the surface to devastating solar radiation. The U.S. government back a secret project to build a vessel that can drill to the core and release nuclear weapons to restart the rotation. They utilize the work of Dr. Ed "Braz" Brazzelton who has developed a material "Unobtainium" that can withstand and convert extreme heat into electricity, as well as a laser-based high-speed drilling array. NASA pilots Commander Robert Iverson and Major Rebecca "Beck" Childs are enlisted to pilot the multi-compartment vessel "USS Virgil", while computer hacker Theodore Donald "Rat" Finch is brought on to keep news of the pending disaster or the attempt to restart the core from the Internet.

"Virgil" is launched through the Marianas Trench and successfully makes its way through the crust. The team accidentally drills through a gigantic empty geode structure, damaging the lasers when it lands at its base. As they traverse outside the ship to free the vessel from the crystalline structures, the geode starts to flood with magma, and Iverson is impaled by a falling shard and falls into the magma. The rest manage to return in time as "Virgil" continues its descent. Further down, they pass through a field of gigantic diamond formations, one of which breaches the last compartment housing the detonation timers for the nuclear charges. Leveque sacrifices himself to make sure that the others have the charges and launch codes before the compartment is crushed by the extreme pressure.

The team reaches the molten core and realizes it is much less dense than previously thought, throwing off their calculations on restarting its motions. They communicate with the surface, where Lieutenant General Thomas Purcell, overseeing the operation, orders them to abandon the effort and return immediately as they plan to use a secondary protocol to restart the core. Finch is secretly communicating with the "Virgil" team and learns that this secondary protocol is the top-secret project "DESTINI" ("'D"'eep "'E"'arth "'S"'eismic "'T"'rigger "'INI"'tiative). Keyes finds that Zimsky was a lead scientist on "DESTINI," a tectonic weapon intended to be used by the U.S. but, when first tested, had caused the core's rotation to stop. Finch redirects power from DESTINI to prevent Purcell from activating it again, as Keyes fears that it could destroy the Earth instead of restarting the core. Meanwhile, destructive events, including a lightning storm in Rome and a burst of ultraviolet rays that destroys the Golden Gate Bridge, alert the world to the situation.

On "Virgil", the remaining team comes up with a plan to place an explosive in each of the remaining compartments, release them, and time their detonations in an exact sequence to trigger the core's rotation through constructive wave interference. Due to the faulty design of "Virgil" because of time constraints, Brazzelton has to sacrifice himself to engage the compartment detachment mechanism in the vessel's underbelly. As they set the charges, Keyes and Zimsky realize that they need more explosive power than previously thought and in their race to adjust timings, Zimsky becomes trapped in a detached compartment. Keyes uses "Virgil"'s nuclear power source to provide the additional energy for the final detonation. While it leaves the main compartment powerless and Keyes and Childs trapped, the other explosions successfully restart the core's rotation. Keyes recalls that the unobtainium shell can convert the heat and pressure to energy, and the two of them wire the shell directly to their systems in time to power the craft and ride the pressure wave out of the core and up towards the surface through tectonic plates, eventually breaching into the floor of the ocean near Hawaii. Due to the much lower heat and pressure in this environment, "Virgil" no longer has sufficient power to establish communications. The government searches for them, and Finch, tracking nearby whale sound, realizes that the "Virgil" crew are using low-power ultrasound to draw whales nearby. Keyes and Childs are soon rescued.

In the aftermath, Finch uploads information about "Virgil" and its team and the classified information about "DESTINI" across the Internet, causing the world to revere the crew as heroes.

####Cosmic Sin####

In the year 2031, the first colony of Mars is founded. By 2042, the Alliance was formed and quantum propulsion technology allows humanity to travel beyond the solar system. Unfortunately, the Mars colony fails in 2281 and the Alliance controls the three colonies: Earth, Zafdie, and Ellora.

Zafdie attempts to secede from the alliance in 2519. In this war James Ford drops a Quantum-Bomb ("Q-bomb") on the rebel colony, killing 70 million people. After committing this atrocity, he is dishonorably discharged from the Alliance military; his wife, Dr. Lea Goss, leaves him; and he is subsequently known as "The Blood General".

In space, the Sigea is an invasive alien species that invades and conquers other worlds. They can parasitically infect others by forcing them to ingest a black fluid that puts them under the control of the Sigea's hive mind.

In the year 2524, the Vander Mining Corp is stationed on planet 4217LYA (Heracles System) when Captain Juda Sayle reports an alien encounter to the Alliance. On Earth, General Eron Ryle is notified and wants Dr. Goss and Ford in on the situation.

At a local bar, Dash meets with Ford for a job when civilians pick a fight with him, but Commander Marcus Bleck appears and intervenes. Bleck requests his presence but Ford refuses, relenting only when Bleck mentions that a successful mission will earn Ford's reinstatement. At the McMillian Airfield, Dash tags along with Ford to a meeting with Dr. Goss and Ryle about what happened in the Heracles System. Survivors of the Vander mining operation are sent to the airfield for debriefing, but Goss raises concerns. The survivors are under Sigea control and start killing security. The soldiers win, but at the cost of 53 lives.

The incident is considered an attack on humanity and the Alliance is to strike back in the form of Operation: Cosmic Sin. Ford, Ryle, Goss, Braxton, Bleck, Dash, and Ardene travel to Ellora via Quantum Jump Gate to stop the Sigea; however while entering Ellora, Ryle's suit gets damaged and he is presumed dead when he doesn't rendezvous with the team. Ford and Goss have also been separated from the group during entry, and Bleck is mortally wounded shortly after making it to the surface. As the team struggles to take out their attackers, Elloran survivors aid them, including Sol Cantos.

After verifying they're free of Sigea influence, the survivors agree to guide them to the orbital cannon and treat Bleck's injuries. At the Alliance outpost, the surviving team learns about how the Sigea infect and control people. Ford makes it to the outpost to find Bleck, whom he mercy kills. In a meeting with the surviving soldiers, a plan is formed to try and collapse the gateway between Ellora and the Sigea galaxy with a Q-Bomb the team brought with them.

In space, Ryle is able to reach out to Ardene through the coms. Stranded, he volunteers to help detonate the gateway to seal off the Sigea, who know the survivors are holding up at the orbital cannon and converge on the outpost; Goss reveals herself to be possessed by the Sigea, and gives them a chance to surrender, which they refuse. The group prepares to make their last stand, defending the outpost as long as possible for Ardene to fire the cannon.

While the rest of the group holds off the alien attackers, Ford latches on to a Sigea ship and follows Goss to the gateway, where she says that there was never going to be peace between humans and the Sigea. Ford is repelled back to Ellora while Goss drifts through the gate. Unable to detonate his suit's remaining fuel manually, Ryle has Ardene and Braxton fire the cannon at him after a final goodbye to his nephew. The resulting chain reaction destroys the gateway as the Q-bomb crosses over into Sigea space and opens a black hole. The gate closes behind the black hole, sealing and wiping out the Sigea attack fleet and their entire solar system.

A week later, Ford heads back to the bar for a drink along with the survivors of Ellora. Dash, Ardene, Braxton, and Sol Cantos survived the battle and the Alliance celebrates their victory with the remaining Sigea having unconditionally surrendered following the destruction of their fleet and their home star system. Ford takes a shot, as reminisces of Goss, and leaves the bar.

####Cowboys & Aliens####
In 1873 New Mexico Territory, a man awakens injured in the desert with a strange metal bracelet attached to his left wrist and no memory. He wanders into the town of Absolution, where preacher Meacham treats his wound. Sheriff John Taggart recognizes the stranger as wanted outlaw Jake Lonergan and attempts to arrest him. Jake nearly escapes, but a woman named Ella Swenson interferes. Taggart and his men prepare to transport both Jake and petulant young drunkard Percy Dolarhyde to Santa Fe for trial.

Percy's father, Colonel Woodrow Dolarhyde, a ruthless cattle baron, arrives with armed men and demands Percy be released. He also wants Jake, who has stolen gold from him. During the standoff, alien ships begin attacking the town. Percy, Taggart, and other townsfolk are abducted by grappling cables fired from the bottom of the ships. Jake's bracelet inexplicably activates and transforms, becoming a weapon; he shoots down a ship, ending the attack.

Dolarhyde, Ella, and other townsfolk form a posse to track an injured alien that escaped from the downed ship. Meanwhile, Jake travels to an abandoned cabin and, in a flashback, recalls returning to it with stolen gold and then being abducted, along with a woman named Alice, by the aliens. His memories returning, Jake joins the posse. During the evening, they come upon a capsized paddle wheel steamboat that the aliens apparently dumped far from any large river. They camp inside it; during the night, the alien kills Meacham, who sacrifices himself to save Emmett, Taggart's grandson.

By morning, most of the posse has deserted, and Jake's former gang attacks the rest. Jake, who stole the gang's loot after their last heist, attempts to retake control but is foiled. The aliens attack again and abduct Ella. Jake jumps aboard the ship and attacks the alien pilot, causing the ship to crash in a river. The pilot survives the crash and attacks Ella, fatally wounding her, before Jake kills it with his wrist-blaster.

The remaining posse is captured by Chiricahua Apache Native Americans, who blame them for the alien attacks. After Ella's corpse is dumped on a fire by a Chiricahua warrior, she is resurrected and emerges from the fire. Ella reveals herself to be from another alien race, who had traveled to Earth to help resist the invaders after they destroyed her home world. The aliens – who are mining gold and abducting people to conduct experiments on them – have superior weaponry and are far stronger and more durable than humans; only Jake's wrist weapon or a well-aimed round from a rifle can kill them with a single shot. Ella tells them that the previous attackers were just scouts.

She also claims Jake holds the secret to the aliens' whereabouts and argues that they must defeat the aliens before the invaders exterminate all life on Earth. After taking medicine offered by the Apaches' medicine man, Jake's memory returns. He recalls watching Alice get vivisected and euthanized; he escaped by stealing the bracelet encasing his wrist. He also remembers the location of the aliens' base of operations: their landed mother ship.

With this knowledge, they plan to attack the alien base. Jake leaves to persuade his old gang to join the fight while Dolarhyde takes command of the original group and the Apaches. After the combined groups maneuver the aliens into a ground battle, Jake and Ella board the ship and free the captives, but Jake is captured. Dolarhyde rescues him, and both men escape from the ship after killing the alien responsible for Alice's death (identified as Jake left a distinctive scar on its eye in his original escape). The ship takes off as the remaining aliens flee Earth, but Ella stays on board to end the threat: she sacrifices herself by entering the ship's core and turning Jake's wrist weapon into a bomb; it detonates, obliterating the ship.

With the aliens gone, the rescued townsfolk begin remembering their pasts. Still a wanted man, Jake chooses to leave; the sheriff and Dolarhyde decide to claim he was killed in the invasion. The citizens intend to rebuild their town with the gold taken from the aliens.

####Crash and Burn (1990 film)####
Unicom is a powerful organization overseeing most of the world after its economic collapse. They have banned computers and robots in an attempt to ensure "life, liberty, and the pursuit of economic stability." When a Unicom Synth robot infiltrates a southwest TV station and kills the manager, a revolutionary against the gestapo-like corporation, a lowly Unicom delivery man, must help the rest of the station survive through the incoming "thermal storm."

####Crash of the Moons####
Rocky Jones, a leading member of the Space Ranger force, attempts to save the inhabitants of Ophecius, a planet about to collide with a moon. However, Cleolanta - the empress of the planet - is suspicious. While Rocky and his crew succeed in evacuating the planet in time, Cleolanta's pride and vanity are a major hindrance. As the last of the planet's population leaves, Cleolanta arrogantly declares that she will stay behind. Her assistant refuses to allow this, and picks her up against her will and carries her on board Rocky's own ship, the Orbit Jet. She watches in despair as the moon crashes into her planet, the two bodies destroying one another instantly. As the ship heads for the new home that has been chosen for her people, Cleolanta realizes that she had been wrong, and that, as stated by one of her underlings, "it is the people that make a nation, not the land itself". She reconciles with Rocky and his crew, and sincerely thanks them for their efforts on her behalf and that of her people.

####The Crazies (1973 film)####
In Evans City, Pennsylvania, a man kills his wife and burns down his farmhouse. Firefighters David and Clank — both Vietnam War veterans — are called to the scene. David's pregnant girlfriend, a nurse named Judy, is called to the office of Dr. Brookmyre, where the two children of the arsonist are being treated for burns.

Heavily armed U.S. troops led by Major Ryder take over Dr. Brookmyre's office. Days earlier, an Army plane carrying a bioweapon had crash-landed near the town, infecting the water supply with a virus code-named "Trixie" which is highly contagious and causes victims to either die or become hysterical and homicidally insane.

Government officials send Colonel Peckem and Dr. Watts, who worked on the creation of the virus, to Evans City to contain the virus and work towards a cure. Martial law is declared in Evans City and a quarantine is placed on the town. Army soldiers forcibly move the townspeople into a high school, rousting many from their homes, and shoot anyone attempting to escape. Bombers armed with nuclear weapons are dispatched to destroy the town if necessary.

David, Judy, Clank, teenager Kathy Fulton and her father Artie, try to find a way to escape the town. After spending the night hiding in a country club, the group attempts to escape through the nearby woods, eluding soldiers both on the ground and in an overhead helicopter. They overpower several soldiers in a house. One of the soldiers discloses what he knows about the virus to David, but when one of the soldiers reaches for his gun, Clank opens fire and kills the soldiers. David confides Judy about what he knows about the virus and tells her that Kathy, Artie, and probably Clank are infected.

After Clank beats him for attempting to have sex with Kathy, Artie hangs himself. Kathy wanders outside and is killed by soldiers. Realizing he is infected, Clank kills several soldiers to give David and Judy time to escape. He is then shot and killed. The next night, Judy, now visibly infected, is killed by armed civilians. Angry and frightened, David surrenders to the military. After being taken into custody, David eventually realizes that he is immune to the virus, but he keeps the knowledge to himself.

Dr. Watts develops a potential cure for the virus but when he tries to take samples to Peckem and Ryder, he is killed and the samples are destroyed in a stampede of infected townspeople breaking free from quarantine. Depressed and distraught by his experiences in Evans City, Colonel Peckem is ordered to relocate to Louisville, where symptoms of the virus have been reported.

####Crime Zone####
####Crossworlds####
College student Joe (Josh Charles) is drawn into a battle to save the world from arch-enemy Ferris (Stuart Wilson). Joe's heirloom pendant just happens to be the key to a sceptre that opens doors to the Crossworlds, another dimension. When Laura shows up to check on the key and Ferris' goons begin their assaults, they run to semi-retired adventurer A.T. (Rutger Hauer) for help and guidance.

####CyberTracker (film)####
####Cyborg (film)####
A plague known as the living death cripples civilization. A small group of surviving scientists and doctors — located in Atlanta, home of the CDC — work on a cure to save what remains of humanity. To complete their work they need information stored on a computer system in New York City. Pearl Prophet volunteers for the dangerous courier mission and is made into a cyborg through surgical augmentation.

Pearl, accompanied by bodyguard Marshall Strat, retrieves the data in New York but is pursued by the vicious Fender Tremolo and his gang of pirates. Fender wants the cure so he can have a monopoly on its production. Strat, badly injured while fighting the pirates, tells Pearl to leave him and find a mercenary, known as a "slinger", who can escort her to safety. She gets cornered but is saved by a slinger named Gibson Rickenbacker. After she explains her situation, they are overrun by Fender's gang, and Gibson is knocked out by falling debris. Fender demands that she accompany him to Atlanta or die.

Fender's gang slaughters a family and steals their boat. They head south for Atlanta via the Intracoastal Waterway with the captive Pearl. Gibson, who had been tracking the pirates, arrives at the scene of slaughter later that night. A shadowy figure attacks him, but he disables her. She turns out to be Nady Simmons, a young woman who mistook him as a pirate. Nady, whose family was wiped out by the plague, joins Gibson. Gibson is less concerned with a cure for the plague than with killing Fender. Gibson and Nady trek southward through the wastelands, where bandits ambush them. Concerned for Nady, Gibson unsuccessfully attempts to convince her to stay away. After declining sex with Nady, Gibson reveals that all he cares about is revenge against Fender, who killed his lover and destroyed his chance to have a normal life and family.

Intercepting Fender and his crew near Charleston, South Carolina, Gibson defeats most of his men, but Fender shoots him with an air rifle. Now nursing a gunshot wound, Gibson realizes Haley (his dead lover's younger sister whom Fender kidnapped) is now a loyal member of Fender's crew. He flees the pirates and ends up alone with Pearl and Nady. Pearl refuses to go with him — she calculates that Gibson is not strong enough to defeat Fender and will be unable to get her to Atlanta safely. She says she will go along with Fender and lure him to his death in Atlanta, where she has resources at her disposal.

Tired, wounded and badly outnumbered, Gibson flees with Nady through the sewer into a salt marsh, where they are pursued by the rest of the pirates and eventually separated from each other. Gibson is thoroughly beaten by Fender and crucified high on the mast of a beached, derelict ship. Haley lingers at the scene but still leaves with Fender. Gibson spends the night on the cross. In the morning, near death, he kicks the mast repeatedly with his dangling foot in a last fit of rage. The mast snaps, sending him crashing to the ground, his arms still tied and nailed to the cross. Finally, Nady appears out of the marsh to free him.

Gibson and Nady intercept Fender once again in Atlanta, this time better prepared. Fender's gang is taken down one by one until he and Gibson face off. During their fight, Nady rushes Fender with a knife, but he stabs and kills her. Gibson in turn stabs Fender in the chest. Thinking him dead, Gibson embraces Haley, who, during the battle turned decisively against Fender. However, Fender gets back up, and they continue to battle in a nearby shed, where Gibson finally kills Fender by impaling him on a meat hook. Gibson and Haley escort Pearl to her final destination before heading back off.

####Cyborg 2####
####Cyborg 3: The Recycler####
The film is set in a desolate post-apocalyptic world where a once thriving age of man and cyborgs has come to an end. Cyborgs are now hunted for their parts. Cash (Haje), a female cyborg learns from Doc Edford (Margaret Avery) that she is somehow pregnant.

She searches for the fabled city of "Cytown" to find Evans (Zach Galligan), a creator of cyborgs, to find out more about her condition. She is followed by Anton Lewellyn (Richard Lynch) and his assistant Jocko (Andrew Bryniarski). Lewellyn is able to sustain himself by hunting cyborgs for their parts. Though he has long wanted to find Cytown (the last haven for cyborgs), he becomes obsessed in getting Cash and her child.

####Cyborg Cop####
Ex-DEA officer Jack Ryan has quit his job following a terrible shoot-out. Jack Ryan receives a message for help from his brother Phillip, who had been employed for a dangerous military mission in the Caribbean. He is unaware that his brother is being used for an unprecedented scientific experiment: Professor Joachim Kessel has developed a technique to turn any soldier into a Cyborg - a half-human, half-robot creature - virtually indestructible. Thanks to his army of Cyborgs, Kessel wants to take over the Caribbean, and Jack will become a kind of "Cop of the Cyborgs" to stop the man.

####Cyborg Cop II####
####Cyborg Cop III####
A scientist intends to turn students into mercenary cyborgs, but a police officer is determined to stop his experiments.

####Cyborg Soldier####
I.S.A.A.C. (Intuitive Synthetic Autonomous Assault Commando), played by former UFC Middleweight Champion Rich Franklin, is the first prototype of a secret "human weapon" program. Once a death-row inmate, he is now a genetically reconstructed, highly trained, deadly assassin whose body and mind have been modified to become a physically regenerative, intellectually superior human being.

While on the run, I.S.A.A.C. takes Deputy Lindsay Rearden (Tiffani Thiessen; "Beverly Hills, 90210") hostage. Their lives are in jeopardy from military agents being led by robotics engineer Simon Hart (Bruce Greenwood; "I, Robot"; "National Treasure: Book of Secrets"). Deputy Reardon and I.S.A.A.C. work together to expose the military group constructing the super beings.

####Cyclone (1987 film)####

Teri (Heather Thomas) leaves the gym and stops by a motorcycle repair shop to pick up parts for her inventor boyfriend Rick (Jeffery Combs). Rick has developed the ultimate motorcycle, the Cyclone. It is a $5 million bike equipped with rocket launchers and laser guns, which only needs oxygen to operate.

The funding for the cutting edge motor cycle was provided by the government who wish to take control of the vehicle. In addition, local criminal arms dealers see the motorcycle as a bonanza and are attempting to steal it to sell on the black market.

When Teri and Rick head out to a local hotspot, Rick is murdered by those who wish to gain control of the prototype. It is now up to  Teri to keep the Cyclone from falling into the wrong hands.

Teri was told in a video Rick filmed before being stabbed that she can trust Agent Bob Jenkins, but she discovers that Jenkins has also been killed.

With no one left that she can trust but herself, she must decide how to be sure the motorcycle is not misused in the future.

####D.A.R.Y.L.####
####D4 (film)####

D4 follows a team of special ops mercenaries on a mission to rescue a kidnapped kid believed to be held in an abandoned government facility. Hired by the boy's mother, a wealthy doctor with high reaching influence, all seems to be an easy job. But as things unfold, what was meant to be a simple search and rescue turns into a fight for survival.

####The Dark Tower (2017 film)####
11-year-old Jake Chambers experiences visions involving a mysterious warlock, the Man in Black, who seeks to destroy a Tower and bring ruin to the Universe while a Gunslinger opposes him. Jake's visions are dismissed by his mother, stepfather, and psychiatrists as nightmares resulting from the trauma of his father's death the previous year.

At his apartment home in New York City, a group of workers from an alleged psychiatric facility offer to rehabilitate Jake. Recognizing them from his visions as monsters wearing human skin, Jake flees from them, and they give chase. Jake finds an abandoned house from one of his visions where he discovers a high-tech portal that leads to a post-apocalyptic landscape called Mid-World.

In Mid-World, Jake encounters the Gunslinger, Roland Deschain, who has emerged in his visions. Roland is pursuing Walter Padick who has also appeared in Jake's dreams, seeking to kill him as revenge for the murder of his father, Steven, and all remaining Gunslingers. He explains to Jake that for decades, Walter has been abducting children with psychic powers, attempting to use their "shine" to bring down the Dark Tower, a fabled structure located at the center of the Universe. This will allow monstrous beings from the darkness outside to invade and destroy reality.

Roland takes Jake to a local village in order to have his visions interpreted by a seer. Having learned of Jake's escape, Walter investigates and discovers from his minion Sayre that Jake has "pure Shine", enough psychic potential to destroy the Dark Tower single-handedly. Walter kills Jake's stepfather; then he interrogates his mother about her son's visions.

Back in Mid-World, the seer determines that the machine is six months away on foot and portal access is restricted to Walter's bases. Jake realizes that Walter has a base in New York that they can use to reach the machine. Suddenly, the Taheen, Walter's minions, attack the village – but Roland kills many of them. Roland and Jake return to Earth where Roland's injuries are treated at a hospital. Jake learns the location of Walter's base from a homeless man who helped him earlier. When Jake returns home to check in on his mother, he finds her charred remains and breaks down in tears. Seeing this, Roland vows to avenge her death. This leads to him teaching Jake the basics of gun fighting, as well as the Gunslinger's Creed, which he has not uttered since his own father's death.

As Roland replenishes his weapons supply at a gun store, he is attacked by Walter, who captures Jake and takes him through a portal at his base to a machine that will destroy the Dark Tower with Jake's powers. Jake uses these psychic powers to alert Roland to the portal code he needs and Roland battles his way through Walter's henchmen, reopening the portal, which Jake forces to stay open. Walter is forced to return to New York to fight Roland and wounds him. When Jake reminds him of the Gunslinger's Creed, Roland recovers and kills Walter with a trick shot after a brief fight. Finally he destroys the machine and saves the Dark Tower, Jake, and the other children.

As the film ends, Roland prepares to return to his own world and offers Jake a place by his side as his companion. Jake accepts the offer and the two head back to Mid-World together.

####The Darkest Hour (film)####
Two Americans, Ben and Sean, travel to Moscow to sell a piece of software. After arriving, they find their business partner, Skyler, has betrayed them by already selling a knockoff application. Disappointed, the pair goes to a nightclub and meets tourists Natalie and Anne. Suddenly, the lights go out and everyone heads outside. There, they witness balls of light fall from the sky and fade away. Invisible entities begin hunting and disintegrating people, generating panic.

Ben, Sean, Natalie, Anne, and now Skyler hide in the club's storeroom for seven days. With most of their food gone, the group leaves the club and finds the city full of scorched cars and cinders, but empty of people. While they search for supplies in a police car, an alien appears. They hide as it moves closer, causing the car's lights and siren to turn on. This makes Sean realize that light bulbs and other technologies give the aliens away. The group takes shelter in a shopping mall. Sean and Natalie go to look for clothes and almost run into an alien who cannot see them through a glass wall. Sean theorizes that the aliens can only see their electrical charge, but not through glass or other insulators.

The group finds the US embassy gutted and lifeless. A logbook there tells them that the invasion is worldwide. They also discover a radio broadcasting a message in Russian. During their search, Skyler is killed by the aliens. The others see a light in a nearby apartment tower and go to investigate. They find a young woman named Vika and a man named Sergei, an electrical engineer. Sergei has made his apartment into a giant Faraday cage that hides everyone from the aliens. He has also developed a microwave gun that weakens an alien's force field, so that it can actually be seen and killed. Vika and Sergei translate the radio message, which says that a nuclear submarine is waiting in the Moscow River to take survivors to safety, but will leave soon.

Vika, Natalie, and Anne go to other apartments to gather supplies. An alien senses them outside the Faraday cage and gives chase. When they get to the apartment, the alien gets inside with them. Sergei shoots the alien with his gun, to no avail. The alien kills him while the others escape. Anne is also killed in the ensuing chase. To fight back, Natalie sets the apartment on fire and meets up with Vika.

The group later meets with Russian policemen who manage to wound an alien with conventional weapons. Sean collects a piece of the alien's body while the small police band agrees to help the group get to the submarine. As they move through the subway, an alien discovers them and kills Ben.

The survivors make it to a powerless patrol boat on the river and drift downstream to the waiting submarine. The boat nears the submarine, but runs aground. As they attempt to push free, an alien light beam causes the boat to capsize. Sean and the policemen swim towards the submarine, but upon reaching it, they discover Natalie is missing. Sean is determined to get her, possibly missing his chance to escape. The policemen agree to help him. The submarine crew, after expressing their doubts about the rescue, assist by building another microwave gun with stronger batteries.

Sean finds Natalie on a bus while the policemen and Vika start destroying aliens with the microwave guns. During the battle, Sean discovers the creatures' weakness when he throws a piece of the wounded alien he collected to another one, killing it. The two stop the bus and narrowly avoid a collision.

After returning to the submarine, the police team decides to stay and fight for the city. Meanwhile Sean, Natalie, and Vika plan to spread what they learned about the aliens to the rest of the world. Sean and Natalie, the only survivors of the original group, nearly share a kiss until Vika scoffs and breaks the romantic tension in a light-hearted moment. In the last scene, they learn that multiple resistance groups are fighting in different cities all around the world.

####Darkman####
Dr. Peyton Westlake is developing a new type of synthetic skin to help burn victims but cannot get past a flaw that causes the skin to rapidly disintegrate after 99 minutes. His girlfriend, attorney Julie Hastings, discovers the Belisarius Memorandum, an incriminating document that proves developer Louis Strack Jr. has been bribing members of the zoning commission. When she confronts Strack, he confesses, showing Julie that he plans to design a brand-new city, creating a substantial number of new jobs. He warns Julie that the city's reigning crime boss, Robert G. Durant, also wants the document.

At Westlake's lab, Westlake and his assistant Yakitito are testing the skin when the lights go out. The synthetic skin remains stable after 100 minutes, so Westlake deduces that the skin is photosensitive. Their joy is short lived as Durant and his mobsters show up and demand the Memorandum, which Westlake knows nothing about. They search for the document, and Durant has his men kill Yakitito and beat Westlake, burning his hands and dipping his face in acid. After finding the document, they rig the lab to explode. Julie witnesses the blast as a hideously burned Westlake is thrown through the roof and into the river. As a John Doe, he is brought to a hospital and subjected to a radical treatment which cuts the nerves of the spinothalamic tract; physical pain is no longer felt at the cost of tactile sensation. This loss of sensory input gives him enhanced strength due to adrenal overload and keeps his injuries from incapacitating him, but also mentally destabilizes him. After waking up from a coma, Westlake escapes from the hospital.

Believed dead by Julie, Westlake re-establishes his lab in a condemned building and begins a long process of digitization to create a mask of his original face, using the time to plot revenge against Durant and his men. He kills Durant's henchman Rick by putting his head in front of an incoming car after forcing him to reveal the identities of the other men. He then studies them to subdue and impersonate them (having a talent for impressionism). When his face mask is complete, Westlake manages to convince Julie that he was in a coma rather than dead. He mentions that he is aware of Julie seeing Strack after his supposed death; she responds that Strack only comforted her. Keeping his disfigurement from her, Westlake instead probes whether she would accept him despite his appearance.

Westlake sows dissension and confusion among Durant's henchmen by assuming their identities. On a date at a carnival with Julie, Westlake loses his temper after an altercation over a stuffed elephant and assaults a worker, revealing to Julie that something is wrong with him. He flees as his face begins to melt, and she follows him, discovering the discarded mask; she calls to Peyton that she still loves him regardless. Julie tells Strack she can no longer see him before discovering the stolen Memorandum on his desk, confirming that he was collaborating with Durant the entire time. She reveals Westlake is still alive, but Strack tells her as long as he has the Memorandum, no charges can be filed. When Julie leaves, Durant enters and is told to capture Julie and kill Westlake.

Durant intercepts Julie, kidnapping her before attacking Westlake's lair. Two of his men enter the lab to locate and kill Westlake but are outmaneuvered and eliminated. Durant flees in a helicopter with Westlake dangling from an attached cable, which he uses to crash the helicopter. Impersonating Durant, Westlake meets up with Strack and a captive Julie at the top of an unfinished building. Strack breaks Westlake's ruse, and they fight; Westlake eventually gains the upper hand and dangles Strack by his ankle in the air. Strack says that killing him would not be something he could live with. Westlake drops Strack, remarking: "I'm learning to live with a lot of things". Julie tries to convince Westlake that he can still return to his old life, but he tells her he has changed internally as well, and cannot subject anyone to his new, vicious nature. He rushes from Julie as they exit an elevator, pulling on a mask and running into a crowd of pedestrians. As Julie unsuccessfully searches for him, a disguised Westlake watches her for a few moments before turning and walking away, narrating, "I am everyone and no one. Everywhere. Nowhere. Call me... Darkman".

####Dawn of the Beast####
####Dawn of the Planet of the Apes####

Years<!-- No calendar year, like 2021 or 2026, is given in the film. --> after the global pandemic of a deadly Simian Flu,efn|As depicted in "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" (2011)|name=|group= the worldwide human population is drastically reduced, with only about one in 500 genetically immune. This causes societal collapse among humans. The apes, all bestowed with genetically enhanced intelligence by the virus, establish a colony in the Muir Woods near San Francisco.

A group of humans, led by a man named Malcolm, trespass the apes' territory, in search of a hydroelectric dam that would restore power to San Francisco. An encounter with the apes, ends with a man named Carver badly hurting the ape Ash. Malcolm manages to prevent further escalation, and Caesar, the apes' leader, orders the humans to leave. Prompted by Koba, a scarred bonobo, Caesar brings his army to the humans' community as a display of strength. Caesar announces to the community that, despite the apes not wanting war, he will fight the humans if he is forced to. He demands the humans to stay in their territory. Malcolm convinces his fellow leader Dreyfus to give him time to take a small team to the forest, reconcile with the apes and access the dam. Eventually, Caesar allows them to work on the generator on the condition that they surrender their guns. While working together, Malcolm, his wife Ellie, and his son Alexander bond with the apes. The fragile relationship briefly falls apart when Carver is discovered to have kept a hidden gun and is thus forcibly sent away, but it is greatly restored when Ellie, a nurse, effectively treats Caesar's wife Cornelia's illness.

Dreyfus arms his community with the Fort Point armory. Koba, who has a vendetta against humans for his mistreatment as a laboratory test subject, discovers the armory and confronts Caesar, accusing him of loving humans more than apes. Caesar beats Koba in response but refrains from killing him. Koba later returns to the armory, kills two guards, and secretly kills Carver after the humans succeed in repairing the generator. Koba takes advantage of their celebration to covertly set fire to the apes' home. He then shoots Caesar, who falls into an underbrush. Koba frames the humans for Caesar's apparent death and the fire to justify war. Taking command, he leads the ape army to San Francisco, where they plunder the armory and mount a full-scale assault on the humans. Despite taking heavy casualties, the apes breach the building and imprison the humans as Dreyfus flees underground. While refusing orders to kill unarmed humans, Ash cites Caesar's teachings, and Koba throws him to his death. He also has any other ape who is loyal to Caesar imprisoned, including Maurice, Luca, and Rocket.

Malcolm's family finds a severely wounded Caesar and transports him to his former house in San Francisco. After sneaking back into the settlement to find medical supplies, Malcolm encounters Blue Eyes, Caesar's son. Blue Eyes spares him before learning that his father is still alive and accompanies Malcolm to Caesar's place. After learning that it was Koba who shot Caesar, Blue Eyes reconciles with his father, returns to the tower and frees every human and ape imprisoned there. After escorting the apes into the tower, Malcolm finds Dreyfus. Apparently, the return of electricity allowed Dreyfus' men to make radio contact with survivors from a military base, who are now coming to fight the apes. Caesar confronts Koba at the top of the tower; as they fight, Dreyfus, in a suicide mission, detonates bombs that destabilize the building in a failed attempt to kill the apes. Willing to shoot at the apes that want to help Caesar, Koba eventually loses. While clinging to a metal girder, he is disowned as an ape by Caesar and dropped to his death.

Malcolm warns Caesar of the approaching human military. Caesar responds "War has already begun" because of Koba's violent reign. Believing that the humans will never forgive the apes for their attack, Caesar convinces Malcolm to leave with his family for safety before the fighting begins. He then addresses the apes, preparing for the upcoming war.<!--Do NOT include info on the post-credits sounds of an ape moving through the rubble, as they add nothing to the plot.-->

####The Day After Tomorrow####
Jack Hall, an American paleoclimatologist, and his colleagues Frank and Jason, drill for ice-core samples in the Larsen Ice Shelf for the NOAA, when the ice shelf splits away. At a UN conference in New Delhi, Jack discusses his research showing that climate change could cause an ice age, but US Vice President Raymond Becker dismisses his concerns. Professor Terry Rapson, an oceanographer of the Hedland Centre in Scotland, befriends Jack over his views of an inevitable climate shift. When several buoys in the Atlantic Ocean show a severe temperature drop, Rapson concludes Jack's theories are correct. Jack's and Rapson's teams, along with NASA meteorologist Janet Tokada, build a forecast model based on Jack's research. Jack tries to get Becker to consider evacuations in the northern states, but Becker refuses.

A massive tropical depression develops in the Northern Hemisphere. This splits into three gigantic superstorms above Canada, Scotland, and Siberia, that siphon frozen air from the upper troposphere into their center, flash-freezing anything caught in their eyes with temperatures below convert|-150|F|C|abbr=off. The storms' magnitude is so severe that will cause a reduction in the temperature of Earth's surface and atmosphere, entering a new ice age. Tokyo is struck by a giant hail storm, Los Angeles is devastated by a tornado outbreak, and three helicopters sent to rescue the British royal family from Balmoral Castle crash in Scotland after they fly into their superstorm's eye.

In New York City, Jack's son Sam, along with his friends Brian and Laura, participate in an academic decathlon, where they make a new friend, J.D. The North American superstorm creates strong winds and rain that flood Manhattan in knee-deep water. All transportation halts, stranding the city population. A massive storm surge inundates the city, forcing Sam's group to seek shelter at the New York Public Library, but not before Laura accidentally cuts her leg. Sam is able to contact Jack and his mother Lucy, a physician, through a working payphone. Jack advises Sam to stay inside and warm, as the storm will only get worse, and promises to rescue him. Rapson and his team succumbed to the European storm. Lucy remains in her hospital caring for bedridden children, where the authorities eventually rescue them.

Upon Jack's suggestion, President Blake orders the southern states to be evacuated into Mexico, while the northern ones are warned by the government to seek shelter and stay warm. Jack, Jason, and Frank make their way to New York. In Pennsylvania, Frank falls through the skylight of a mall covered in snow and sacrifices himself by cutting his rope to prevent his friends from falling in with him.

In the library, most survivors decide to head south once the floodwater freezes, despite Sam's warnings. In Mexico, Becker learns that Blake's motorcade perished in the superstorm.

Laura develops sepsis from her injury, whereupon Sam, Brian, and J.D. scour a Russian cargo vessel that drifted into the city for penicillin, fending off a pack of escaped wolves from the Central Park Zoo, narrowly escaping back to the library as the eye of the North American superstorm passes over and freezes Manhattan. Jack and Jason take shelter in an abandoned restaurant.

Days later, the superstorms dissipate. After finding people outside frozen to death, Jack and Jason reach the library, finding Sam's group alive. Jack sends a radio message to US forces in Mexico.

In his first address as the new president from the US embassy in Mexico, Becker apologizes on The Weather Channel for his ignorance and sends helicopters to rescue survivors including Jack and Sam's group in the northern states. On the International Space Station, astronauts look down in awe at Earth's transformed surface, now with ice sheets extending across much of the Northern Hemisphere, remarking that the "air never looked so clear".

####Daybreakers####
In 2009, a plague caused by an infected bat transforms most of the world's population into immortal vampires. The human population plummets, leaving vampires with a severe shortage of blood; vampires deprived of blood degenerate into psychotic, bat-like "subsiders". Most humans are captured and harvested in laboratory farms while scientists research a synthetic Substitute. As sunlight is deadly to vampires, underground passages and UV-filtered cars are built for safe travel, while the few free humans travel by day, hiding in open spaces.

In 2019, Edward Dalton is the head hematologist for Bromley Marks, a pharmaceutical company that is the largest supplier of human blood in the US. Edward and colleague Christopher Caruso are developing a blood substitute.

Driving home from a failed experiment, Dalton accidentally runs another vehicle off the road. Discovering the occupants are humans, Dalton hides them from the police. Before they part ways, their leader, Audrey, learns Edward's name and occupation from his ID badge.

At home, Edward is surprised by his estranged brother Frankie. Frankie's gift of a bottle of pure human blood reignites a long-standing argument – Edward refuses to drink human blood and uses animal blood instead, while Frankie enjoys his vampire status. A subsider, a gardener from Edward’s neighborhood, invades the house, forcing the brothers to kill it.

The next morning, Audrey visits Edward's home, giving him instructions for a meeting. There, Edward is introduced to Lionel "Elvis" Cormac, a human who was once a vampire. Before he can explain his reversion, a military team arrives with Frankie, who followed Edward and intends to capture Cormac and Audrey. Audrey knocks Frankie unconscious and the three escape. Cormac reveals that he was cured of vampirism when a car crash ejected him from his sun-proof vehicle. Elvis burst into flames in the sunlight but landed in a river, having been exposed to the sun for a precise length of time to turn him human again. Edward agrees to help Cormac find a way to recreate the cure and prevent human genocide.

At a vineyard that night, Edward meets more humans and Senator Wes Turner, a vampire secretly helping the colony develop a cure. An approaching convoy of humans is captured, and vampire soldiers track the location of the vineyard, forcing Turner and the humans to flee. Audrey, Cormac, and Edward stay behind, and together they recreate the method by which Cormac reverted to human form, curing Edward of vampirism. They later find Turner and all the humans dead.

Alison Bromley, one of the captured humans, is revealed to be the daughter of Charles Bromley (CEO of Bromley Marks), who refused to become a vampire like her father. Charles has Frankie forcibly turn his daughter Alison into a vampire, but she refuses to drink human blood. Devolving into a subsider, Alison and others are executed by being burnt to death by sunlight. Upset at witnessing Alison's death, Frankie seeks out his brother. The military imposes martial law to control the subsider population.

Edward, Cormac, and Audrey break into Christopher's home and ask him to help spread the cure. Having finally discovered a viable blood substitute, and feeling overshadowed by Edward, Christopher is uninterested in a cure and summons soldiers, who capture Audrey while Cormac and Edward escape. They are found by Frankie, who agrees to help but his instincts cause him to bite Cormac, but drinking his blood turns Frankie human, revealing that the sunlight cure is unnecessary.

Trying to save Audrey, Edward turns himself in to Charles, who gloats about Bromley Marks' new monopoly on the blood substitute, as using blood substitute to cure blood loss in humans is much less profitable than selling it as grocery to the vampire population. Charles reveals his plan to continue hunting humans and sell their blood for exorbitant prices, as "people are always willing to pay extra for the real thing." Edward taunts Charles into biting him, turning Charles human.

Edward leaves Charles to be killed at the hands of human-blood-thirsty-soldiers on the brink of becoming subsiders. Frankie arrives and sacrifices himself to the soldiers which allows Edward and Audrey to escape. In the ensuing feeding frenzy, only six soldiers are left standing, now cured. To conceal the cure, Christopher shoots the soldiers and is about to shoot Edward and Audrey when Cormac kills him with a crossbow.

The three survivors drive off into the sunrise. In a voiceover, Edward announces the cure will change the general population back to restore humanity.

####Dead and Deader####
After communications to a small medical outpost in Cambodia was cut off, a Special Forces squad is sent to investigate. As they approach the outpost they are attacked by zombies. As the zombies are dispatched, Lieutenant Bobby Quinn survives with heavy injuries. He radios for a medivac airlift, then falls unconscious.

Quinn wakes up on an exam table at Fort Preston army base. The shocked coroner explains that he arrived in a body-bag and had been pronounced DOA. Suddenly feeling a pain in his right arm, Quinn grabs a scalpel and cuts it open. Gushing out of the wound is green blood and a strange scorpion, which he crushes. The incision then rapidly heals, and Quinn finds that he now possesses superhuman strength. He also begins feeling intense hunger that can only be dulled by ingesting raw, red meat and teams up with military chef, Judson.

Quinn and Judson fight their way out of the army base and leaves to find his fellow squad-members. They stop at a small road-side bar and meets Holly, a part-time bartender. The local news had aired a report about the killings at Fort Preston, labeling Quinn and Judson as suspects. The bar patrons lock them inside the cooler. The bar is then attacked by Zombies. Holly frees Quinn and Judson, and they fight their way out.

Quinn eventually learns that a doctor named Dr. Scott plans to use the scorpion venom to revive dead tissues and sell for a profit. Quinn, Holly and Judson follow Dr. Scott back to Fort Preston, where Scott is killed by zombies attempting to extract a scorpion. After destroying the scorpion and killing all of the zombies, Judson, Holly and Quinn escape from the base and leave.

Outside the base, Quinn, Judson and Holly lure zombies toward the armory, blowing it up using a stash of ammunition. They narrowly escape as the base goes up in flames. After making sure no zombies survive, they walk away together.

####Dead Heat (1988 film)####
Detectives Roger Mortis and Doug Bigelow are called to the scene of a rather violent jewelry store robbery. The robbers take on a squadron of police in a messy shootout, but neither seems affected when they are riddled with bullets. Thanks to the combined, albeit extreme measures of Mortis and Bigelow, they are able to take out the criminals. Narrowly avoiding termination their captain assigns them to the investigation. Meanwhile, a coroner friend of Roger's, Rebecca informs the detectives that the two bodies they had brought in had previously been to the morgue: not only do they have autopsy scars, but she herself clearly remembers performing the autopsy and has pictures to prove it, suggesting they simply got up and left the morgue of their own volition.

There is a preservative chemical compound found in the bodies that connect the pair of detectives to a company that had ordered a great amount of it recently. Mortis and Bigelow investigate and meet the company's head public relations person, Randi James who gives them a tour of the facility. When Doug wanders off to investigate a suspicious room, he encounters the reanimated corpse of a biker on a strange machine. A fight ensues, Roger comes to aid his partner, and in the fray, he is knocked into a decompression room used to humanely kill failed test animals and is asphyxiated to death when an unknown person activates the room.

Encountering the machine, and realizing it is capable of bringing people back from the dead, Rebecca and Doug successfully bring Roger back from the dead. He says he feels fine, yet he has no heart beat and his skin is cold to the touch, Rebecca surmises he has about twelve hours before the reanimation process ends and he dissolves into a puddle of mush. Roger decides to take this time to find and exact his vengeance on the person who killed him, as well as solve the case he and Doug are working on. They go to Randi's house just shortly before she is attacked by two more undead thugs, which the partners are able to subdue. Randi says that she is the daughter of a rich industrialist, and the owner of the company she works for until his death, Arthur P. Laudermilk.

The two of them pay another visit to Rebecca, who says that she might have found a way to keep Roger in healthy condition indefinitely, but the unsure nature of the theory has him decide to spend his final hours finding the man who killed him. Doug splits from Roger, agreeing to meet back at Randi's home, while Roger and Randi pay a visit to Laudermilk's tomb. Randi admits she's not his daughter, more a protégé or daughter he'd never had. While there, they encounter a numeric code, which Roger discovers later is a vital clue. Upon returning to Randi's home, they find Doug dead, having been suspended and drowned in a fish tank for some time. Randi tells Roger that she too is undead, having been one of Laudermilk's first test subjects for resurrection, shortly before abruptly dissolving while asking for Roger's forgiveness.

Roger confronts the head coroner Dr. Ernest McNab, Rebecca's boss, who was linked to the secret numeric code that Roger had found. Roger also has determined that McNab reanimated the robbers to steal for him all while keeping his hands clean, in addition to killing Doug and himself. But McNab turns the tables on Roger, capturing him, then locking him in an ambulance with Rebecca's dead body, after killing her, in order to wait out his last hour to dissolution. He releases the brakes on the ambulance and puts it in neutral, sending it careening down the highway into a massive collision, from which he emerges, even more zombified and scarred almost beyond recognition. He returns to the laboratory where McNab and a resurrected Laudermilk are pitching the resurrection machine to a group of very rich clients. Mortis charges in and in the ensuing crossfire between him and McNab's men a few of the rich clients are killed, leaving Laudermilk cowering in a corner.

McNab reveals a test subject; Doug, resurrected by the machine. But because he's been dead for hours, the brain deterioration leaves him little more than an obedient zombie with no memory of who Roger is. Before he can obey McNab's orders to kill Mortis, however, Roger manages to trigger Doug's short-term memory and bring him back to normal. The pair go after McNab who immediately kills himself before they can do anything. Roger and Doug put McNab onto the resurrection table and resurrect him. But to exact revenge, Roger starts the resurrection process again and it overloads, causing a screaming McNab to explode in the machine. Despite Laudermilk's pleas and promises of eternal life, the pair then destroy the machine completely, leaving the room pondering about the afterlife and reincarnation; Doug's fond wish of being reincarnated as a girl's bicycle seat intriguing the both of them. The film ends with Roger stating, "This could be the end of a beautiful friendship."

####Dead Space (film)####
In the research facility on the planet Phablos, a virus is created in a botched experiment which turns those infected into monsters. An emergency distress call is sent from the lab.
A spacecraft crewed by Commander Steve Krieger and robot sidekick Tinpan respond to the emergency call from the planet, but their craft is attacked and damaged on the way to Phablos.

Upon their arrival at Phablos, those in charge of the laboratory explain that they have managed to contain the virus. Krieger accepts the lab's claims and begins repairs on his ship. The scientist had not been entirely honest with Krieger, and had been attempting to study the virus rather than contain it.

Unfortunately, the virus escapes and infects a lab worker, leaving the lab to  face a killer virus that turns them into alien monsters.

Krieger and Tinpan attempt to stop the monster, but their weapons prove ineffective. One of the lab workers develops a bioweapon that proves effective in stopping the monster.

####Dead Trigger (film)####
After failing to stop a virus turning people into bloodthirsty zombies, the government develops a video game to recruit the most talented players to combat the real-life horde. Led by Captain Kyle Walker, the team must fight through an army of the undead to locate a group of scientists that may have developed a cure for the virus.

####Dear God No!####
####Death Race (2008 film)####
####Death Race 2####
####Death Race 3: Inferno####

Death Race owner R. H. Weyland has been forced to sell the rights to Niles York, an ambitious and ruthless British billionaire who acquired the rights by a hostile takeover and who intends to relocate the Death Race to South Africa. Before leaving, Weyland arranges Carl Lucas, also known as Frankenstein, to have his face fixed after it was disfigured in the previous film. With Lucas just one win away from his freedom, York fears losing the huge Frankenstein fanbase and threatens to kill Lucas if he wins.

As the crew from Terminal Island reaches the facility in South Africa, a scuffle breaks out, forcing Lucas (in his Frankenstein persona) to intervene. However, his mask is knocked off during the fight, revealing to his team of Katrina Banks, Goldberg, and Lists that he has been hiding his identity behind the mask during their previous races.

Before the first race, the pool of female navigators are pitted against each other to participate in the "Navigator Wars", a gladiator-style armed fight to the death. The show is now hosted and produced by Satanawho|date=January 2020, on behalf of York. Ten surviving navigators, including Katrina, are assigned to their drivers. Afterwards, all race participants are shot on their necks with GPS trackers, so the showrunners can track them and kill them if they attempt to escape.

The first race, in the Kalahari Desert, features terrain that calls for a racing strategy totally different from the one on the Terminal Island prison course. Lucas manages to regain Goldberg's trust, but not Katrina's. Eleven racers compete, but Jackal makes a jump start, only to be blown up by a tracking missile. Three racers and their navigators die during the race, while Razor beats Frankenstein to win the first day.

Katrina, still heartbroken that Lucas has kept his survival secret from her all along, distances herself from him. When Goldberg gets a flesh wound from another brawl, he establishes a relationship with the show's surgeon, Olivia. In order to make Katrina jealous, Satana orders Psycho's navigator Amber to have sex with Lucas.

Satana and York grow suspicious of Lucas, due to his non-rebellious attitude to being forced to lose. Meanwhile, Lucas meets with his crew, apologizing and explaining what they were up against. Having regained their trust, Lucas explains that he has made a "new deal."

The second race commences with the death of three more teams. Fury is killed after being tricked by Olga Braun (Death Race's first-ever female driver), who is in turn run over by Razor. Razor struggles to handle both Lucas and Psycho before they are joined by 14K, who disabled Nero's truck before leaving him to get beaten to death by an angry mob of locals. Lucas wins the second race, but Goldberg is caught in an explosion caused by stray bullets from local hostile war lords, and Olivia pronounces him dead.

York reminds Lucas to lose his next race, or he will have Katrina tortured. Satana discovers York wishes to replace her as producer and remove her from the Death Race so he can assume control. Before the next race, Katrina confesses her love to Lucas, and Lucas reveals he did not sleep with Amber. Before the final race, Psycho and Lucas have a chat about the identity of Frankenstein, and whether Lucas was the first or even the last.

York is determined to keep Lucas from winning at any cost. Razor disables Psycho's car, and Psycho dies in the flames. Lucas takes the lead, and York orders him killed with a tracking missile. However, 14K shoots flares to divert the missile and destroy it, saving Lucas' life and repaying his debt from the race back in Terminal Island. York fires Prudence, his secretary, who was against his actions all along.

Lucas holds a commanding lead, but in an unexpected twist, Lucas relinquishes the lead to 14K and turns off to find York. Satana handcuffs York to a table for his betrayal. Lucas crashes his car into the control room and it explodes, engulfing the room in flames. It appears that everyone, except a facially disfigured Lucas, perished in the crash. However, at the medical facility, Lucas yells that he is York, not Frankenstein. Olivia, Lists and the GPS tracking chip confirm it to be Lucas/Frankenstein, and they report the same to Prudence, who fills in for the "late" York. She returns the Death Race to Terminal Island and assigns Hennessy to take charge of the race, while recruiting "Coach" to replace Goldberg.

In a set of flashbacks, it is revealed that Lucas made a deal with Weyland while at the hospital; Weyland provided Olivia as an insider, and she helped fake Goldberg's death. Satana yielded to Weyland, trapping York in the control room right before the planned car crash; Lucas and Katrina secretly ejected from the car before the crash, and Olivia planted the GPS tracker with Frankenstein's I.D into York's body, leaving York and Katrina to be pronounced dead. Weyland regains control of the Death Race and grants the team their freedom, though Lists refuses and returns to Terminal Island. Weyland pays Lucas and his team a substantial amount of money for their help, which they use to relocate. Meanwhile, York is now forced to assume the identity of Frankenstein, hoping to gain his freedom and have his revenge while racing at Terminal Island in the future (as seen in the first film).

####Death Race 2000####
After the "World Crash of '79", massive civil unrest and economic ruin occurs. The United States government is restructured into a totalitarian regime under martial law. To pacify the population, the government has created the Transcontinental Road Race, where a group of drivers race across the country in their high-powered cars and which is infamous for violence, gore, and innocent pedestrians being struck and killed for bonus points. In the year 2000, the five drivers in the 20th annual race, who all adhere to professional wrestling-style personas and drive appropriately themed cars, include Frankenstein, the mysterious black-garbed champion and national hero; Machine Gun Joe Viterbo, a Chicago tough guy gangster; Calamity Jane, a cowgirl; Matilda the Hun, a Neo-Nazi; and Nero the Hero, a Roman gladiator. Machine Gun Joe Viterbo, the second-place champion, is the most determined of all to defeat Frankenstein and win the race.

A resistance group led by Thomasina Paine, a descendant of the 1770s American Revolutionary War hero Thomas Paine, plans to rebel against the regime, currently led by a man known only as Mr. President, by sabotaging the race, killing most of the drivers, and taking Frankenstein hostage as leverage against Mr. President. The group is assisted by Paine's great-granddaughter Annie Smith, Frankenstein's navigator. She plans to lure him into an ambush in order to have him replaced by a double. Despite a pirated national broadcast made by Ms. Paine herself, the Resistance's disruption of the race is covered up by the government and instead blamed on the French, who are also blamed for ruining the country's economy and telephone system. At first, the Resistance's plan seems to bear fruit: Nero the Hero is killed when a "baby" he runs over for points turns out to be a bomb, Matilda the Hun drives off a cliff while following a fake detour route set up by the Resistance, and Calamity Jane, who witnessed Matilda the Hun's death, inadvertently drives over a land mine. This leaves only Frankenstein and Machine Gun Joe Viterbo in the race. As Frankenstein nonchalantly survives every attempt made on his life during the race, Annie comes to discover that Frankenstein's mask and disfigured face are merely a disguise; he is, in fact, one of a number of random wards of the state who are trained exclusively to race under that identity, and each time they die or are brutally mutilated, they are secretly replaced so that Frankenstein appears to be indestructible.

The current Frankenstein reveals to Annie his own plan to kill Mr. President: when he wins the race and shakes hands with Mr. President, he will detonate a grenade which has been implanted in his prosthetic right hand. However, the plan goes awry when Machine Gun Joe Viterbo attacks Frankenstein and Annie is forced to kill him using Frankenstein's "hand grenade". Having successfully outmaneuvered both the rival drivers and the Resistance, Frankenstein is declared the winner of the race, although he is wounded and unable to carry out his original "hand grenade" attack plan. Annie instead dons Frankenstein's costume and plans to stab Mr. President while standing in for him on the podium. Before she is able to do so, Thomasina shoots "Frankenstein", convinced that he killed Annie. The real Frankenstein takes advantage of the confusion and rams Mr. President's stage with his car, finally fulfilling his lifelong desire to kill him. Frankenstein becomes the new president, marries Annie and appoints Thomasina as the Minister of Domestic Security to rebuild the state and dissolve the dictatorship. Junior Bruce, the announcer of the Transcontinental Road Race, opposes the race's abolition and impertinently claims that the public needs performances of violence. Annoyed by his complaints, Frankenstein hits Bruce with his car and drives off with Annie to the cheers and applause of the crowd.

####Death Race 2050####
####Death Race: Beyond Anarchy####

A privatized security firm runs the Sprawl, a massive prison housing around 420,000 inmates. Inside, the popular Death Race competition has been made illegal by the new warden who was hired by the prison's owner, Weyland International. He has been tasked with taking out Frankenstein, the prison's Death Race champion and king.

After defeating a competitor in a Death Race, a prison SWAT team attempts to take Frankenstein out, killing several convicts before they are cornered and butchered by Frankenstein's loyal inmate army. Frankenstein speaks to the warden through one of their body cameras, saying that he will kill every man the warden sends to kill him. The warden is admonished by his boss, a Weyland International executive, for failing to kill Frankenstein.

A helicopter of new prisoners arrives at the Sprawl. They are each given a roll of silver coins to help make their way in the prison. Immediately upon landing, "the Cops," a prison gang run by Death Racer Johnny Law, come upon the new inmates and kill most of them. Two survive but refuse to hand over their coins. They defeat the entire gang, demonstrating unusually skillful technique, and go their separate ways.

The male inmate, Connor, is picked up by a group of women who see his fight. He tells them he is looking for Baltimore Bob, a name he overheard while on the helicopter, who supposedly runs the Death Races. They take him to a bar run by Frankenstein, where Johnny Law is about to be killed for failing to get all the coins from the new inmates. Connor defeats two more of Frankenstein's henchmen and Frankenstein confronts him personally. Though they do not fight, Connor shows no fear or respect for Frankenstein in their exchange. The bartender, Jane, connects Connor with Baltimore Bob, who also witnessed his fight.

Baltimore Bob takes Connor around the prison and they discuss the Death Races. They attend a qualifying match for the Death Race at the Death Pit, where riders on motorcycles must avoid obstacles and traps in order to survive. The other inmate who fought the Cops upon landing, Gipsy Rose, wins the qualifying match. That night, Jane once again sees Connor and brings him to her house. They talk about how they got into the Sprawl. She assumes he wishes to sleep with her, but Connor refuses.

The next day, Connor tells Baltimore Bob that he wants to be in a Death Race. His qualifying match is a footrace to a tower, which he must climb to claim the keys to a car. He fights his way to the tower and gets the keys; he is confronted by the Butcher, a huge man carrying a sledgehammer and sickle, whom Connor defeats. Frankenstein tells his concubine Carley to bring Connor to him. In the shower, Carley makes a pass at Connor, which he again refuses. Frankenstein tells him that if he wins the Death Race, he will become king of the Sprawl, and asks if he is ready for that responsibility. After the meeting, Connor goes to see Jane again. This time, they appear to begin a relationship.

Connor begins construction of his Death Racer with Baltimore Bob. The woman who picked him up after his fight with the Cops asks to be his co-pilot, to which he reluctantly agrees. He spends the night before the Death Race with Jane again.

The next morning, he sees the entire prison descending on Jane's house. He goes outside and is confronted by Frankenstein, who reveals to the whole prison that Connor is actually Sergeant Connor Gibson, a special operative sent inside to kill him. He declares that Connor will be allowed to compete in the Death Race.

As the Death Racers arrive at the starting line, Frankenstein reveals that his new co-pilot will be a captive Jane, whom he is using as an "insurance policy" against Connor. Throughout the Death Race, competitors are taken out one by one, until only Connor, Frankenstein, Johnny Law and Gipsy Rose remain. Connor, in last, gets rerouted by Baltimore Bob. He performs a near impossible jump over a downed bridge and gets back behind Frankenstein. Johnny Law is eliminated and Gipsy Rose is in third.

During the final stretch, Connor runs out of gas. Frankenstein turns around and Jane begs him not to kill Connor. Frankenstein drives at Connor and his co-pilot; at the last second, Gipsy Rose T-bones Frankenstein. Connor rushes to help Jane and Gipsy Rose shoots Frankenstein, killing him. She tells Connor that a helicopter will be there to pick them up soon; he realizes that she is also a special agent. Connor, now torn between his past life and his new one with Jane, decides to stay. Baltimore Bob tells him to put on the mask, become Frankenstein and run the Sprawl. He takes Frankenstein's coat and mask, wins the Death Race and presumably stays at the Sprawl.

####Deathsport####
"A thousand years from tomorrow" after the Neutron Wars, the world is divided into a barbaric collection of city states surrounded by wastelands where only mutant cannibals and independent warriors, known as Range Guides, can live. Led by Lord Zirpola, the city state of Helix is planning war on another city state, Tritan, for their fuel supply. Hoping to prove the superiority of their newest weapons, the Death Machines (laser-equipped dirt bikes), they create a new pastime - Deathsport.

The death penalty has been replaced by Deathsport, where criminals battle each other to the death in return for gaining their freedom. Lord Zirpola has managed to capture legendary Range Guide Kaz Oshay (Carradine) and he wants to add a female Range Guide for an upcoming Deathsport event. A female Range Guide, Deneer (Jennings), is captured while leading a group of Tritans across the desert. A child, Tara, is taken by the mutant group during the attack to capture Deneer. In a Helix jail, Kaz Oshay bonds with Deneer and vows to escape with her and find the group's child.

After enduring torture and facing his mother's killer, Ankar Moor, Oshay and Deneer are forced onto the Deathsport motocross field, which is mined with explosives. They easily defeat the other riders and escape from Helix with two other prisoners, Dr. Karl and his son Marcus. During the escape, though, the doctor is killed.

Eventually, they rescue Tara from the mutant cannibals and battle the other Death Machine riders who followed them. Finally safe, Deneer delivers Marcus to Tritan, while Oshay faces Ankar Moor in "honorable" combat, using Whistlers (swords that make a sound like music). After a bloody battle, Oshay decapitates Ankar Moor, thus becoming the greatest Range Guide alive. The film ends with Oshay, Deneer and Tara riding their horses off into the sunset.

####Deep Blue Sea (1999 film)####

In a remote underwater facility, doctors Susan McCallister and Jim Whitlock are conducting research on mako sharks to help in the re-activation of dormant human brain cells like those found in Alzheimer's disease patients. After one of the sharks escapes the facility and attempts to attack a boat full of young adults, financial backers send corporate executive Russell Franklin to investigate the facility.

Susan and Jim prove their research is working by testing a certain protein complex that was removed from the brain tissue of their largest shark, which bites off Jim's right arm upon awakening in the laboratory. Brenda Kerns, the tower's operator, calls a helicopter that braves heavy rain and strong winds to evacuate Jim. As Jim is being lifted the cable jams, dropping Jim and his stretcher into the shark pen. The largest shark grabs the stretcher and pulls the helicopter into the tower, killing Brenda and the pilots, as well as causing massive explosions that severely damage the facility.

In the laboratory, Susan, Franklin, wrangler Carter Blake, marine biologist Janice Higgins, and engineer Tom Scoggins witness the shark smash the stretcher against the laboratory's main window, which then shatters, drowning Jim and flooding the facility. The group goes to the facility's wet entry, where they plan to take a submersible to escape. Susan confesses to the others that she and Jim genetically engineered the sharks to increase their brain size, as they were not large enough to harvest sufficient amounts of the protein complex; this broke protocol and made the sharks smarter and more deadly. In the facility's kitchen, which has been partially flooded, cook Sherman "Preacher" Dudley, whose parrot is eaten by a shark, manages to kill the big fish by setting off an explosion.

When the group reaches the wet entry, they discover that the submersible has been damaged. While delivering a monologue emphasizing the need for group unity, Franklin is dragged into the submersible pool by a shark and devoured. The remaining crew opt to climb up the elevator shaft at the risk of destabilizing the pool. As they climb, explosive tremors cause the ladder to break, and Janice loses her grip and falls into the water. Despite Carter's attempt to save her, a shark drags Janice under and eats her. The rest of the group moves on, encountering Preacher. Carter and Scoggins go to the flooded laboratory to activate a control panel that drains a stairway to the surface, while Susan heads to her room to collect her research material. Carter and Scoggins reach the control panel, but the largest shark storms in, ripping Scoggins apart and wrecking the controls. In her room, Susan encounters another shark and electrocutes it with a power cable, destroying her research in the process.

After regrouping, Carter, Susan, and Preacher go to a decompression chamber and swim to the surface. Preacher is grabbed by the last shark, suffering injuries to his leg, but he is released when he stabs the shark in the eye with his crucifix. Carter realizes that the sharks have been using them to flood the facility so that they can ram their way through the fences at the surface. To keep the shark from escaping to the open sea, Susan deliberately cuts her hand and dives into the water. Although she manages to distract the shark with her blood, she is unable to get out of the water and is devoured, despite Carter's efforts to save her. While Carter is holding the shark's dorsal fin, Preacher shoots the shark with a harpoon but also pierces Carter's thigh. As the shark breaks through the fence, Carter orders Preacher to connect the trailing wire to a battery, sending an electric current to an explosive charge in the harpoon, killing the shark. Carter manages to free himself just in time. He and Preacher see a boat approaching the sinking facility.

####Deep Core (film)####
####DeepStar Six####
"DeepStar Six" is an experimental deep-sea US Naval facility, crewed by a mix of 11 military and civilians, now in the final week of their tour. The project is headed by John Van Gelder,  to test underwater colonization methods, while overseeing the installation of a new nuclear missile storage platform. Already nearing his deadline, Van Gelder's plans are threatened when geologist Burciaga discovers a massive cavern system under the site. Van Gelder orders the use of depth charges to collapse the cavern, to the dismay of Dr. Scarpelli, who wants to study the potentially primordial ecosystem inside.

The ensuing detonation collapses part of the seabed, forming a massive fissure in the ocean floor. Submarine pilots Osborne and Hodges send an unmanned probe to explore, but lose contact and venture in after it. Upon finding the probe, they detect a large sonar contact moments before being attacked and killed by an unseen entity. The aggressor then attacks the observation pod, leaving Joyce Collins and a dying Burciaga trapped inside as it teeters on the edge of the ravine. Captain Laidlaw and submarine pilot McBride - who is also Collins' lover - attempt a rescue. They dock with the pod and rescue Collins, but the unstable hatch door closes on Laidlaw. Mortally wounded, he floods the compartment, forcing McBride and Collins to return to their ship and leave without him.

The remaining crew now prepare to abandon the base, but the missile platform must first be secured. Without Laidlaw, facility technician Snyder is forced to interpret the unfamiliar protocol. When prompted by the computer to explain the reason, Snyder reports "aggression" (due to the creature). The computer jumps to the conclusion that an enemy military force is attacking and advises the humans to detonate the missile warheads. Snyder complies and the resulting nuclear explosion creates a shockwave that damages DeepStar Six and the cooling system for the base's nuclear reactor. With failed life support, they begin repairs to restore power and pressure for the decompression procedure.

Engineer Jim Richardson ventures outside in a JIM suit to effect repairs, but the creature comes after him, leading Scarpelli to conclude it is attracted to light. The crew retrieves his suit and hauls him through the airlock, but the creature forces its way inside and bisects him. The team retreats as the creature consumes the panic-stricken Scarpelli. Arming themselves with shotguns and harpoons with explosive cartridges, they venture back in to finish repairs. They succeed, but the creature attacks and Van Gelder dies when he accidentally backs into Snyder's harpoon. They escape to the med lab. Already badly stressed, Snyder quickly begins to unravel with guilt and fear. After a hallucination of Van Gelder, Snyder jumps into the escape pod and launches. However, since he has not undergone decompression, the pressure change from the ascent causes him to burst.

McBride swims through the flooded base to the minisub, to use it as their means of escape. While he is gone, the creature bursts into the med lab and Diane Norris attacks it with an overcharged defibrillator. Norris electrocutes herself and the creature as it attacks her, allowing Collins and McBride to escape, fleeing before the reactor goes critical. The sub breaches the surface, where they deploy a raft, only for the creature to emerge. McBride discharges the minisub's fuel, then fires a flare, killing the creature as the sub explodes. McBride soon resurfaces and joins Collins, as they wait for a Navy rescue team to arrive.

####Déjà Vu (2006 film)####
In New Orleans, a ferry carrying U.S. Navy sailors and their families across the Mississippi River for Mardi Gras explodes, killing 543 people. ATF Special Agent Doug Carlin discovers evidence of a bomb planted by a domestic terrorist, and examines the body of Claire Kuchever, seemingly killed in the explosion but found in the river shortly before the time of the blast. Informing Claire's father and searching her apartment, Doug learns that she called his ATF office the morning of the bombing, and determines that she was abducted and killed by the bomber hours before the explosion.

Impressed with Doug's deductive ability, FBI Special Agent Paul Pryzwarra invites him to join a new governmental unit investigating the bombing. Led by Dr. Alexander Denny, the team utilizes a surveillance program called "Snow White", which they claim uses previous satellite footage to form a triangulated image of events four-and-a-half days in the past. Convinced that Claire is a vital link, Doug observes her past footage and is able to track the soon-to-be-bomber when he calls about a truck she has for sale.

Deducing that Snow White is actually a time window, Doug persuades the team to send a note to his past self with the time and place the suspect will be. His partner Larry Minuti finds the note instead, and is shot attempting to arrest the suspect. By using a mobile Snow White unit, Doug is able to follow the suspect's past movements as he flees to his hideout with the wounded Minuti, and then witness Minuti's murder.

In the present, the bomber is taken into custody after facial recognition systems identify him as Carroll Oerstadt, an unstable "patriot" rejected from enlisting in the military. He confesses to killing Minuti and Claire, taking her truck to transport the bomb and staging her death as one of the ferry victims. The government closes the investigation, but Doug, convinced that Snow White can be used to alter history, persuades Denny to send him back to the morning of the bombing so he can save Claire and prevent the explosion.

Doug survives the process by being sent back to a hospital emergency room, where doctors are able to revive him. Stealing an ambulance, he arrives at the hideout in time to stop Claire's murder, but Oerstadt shoots him and flees with the bomb. Doug drives Claire to her apartment to treat his wound, but a suspicious Claire holds him at gunpoint and calls the ATF to confirm his identity — the call his office received the day of the bombing. He convinces her of the truth, and they leave together for the ferry dock.

Doug boards the ferry seeking to disarm the bomb in Claire's truck, but Oerstadt realizes he has been followed and captures Claire, tying her to her truck's steering wheel. A gunfight ensues, but Doug distracts Oerstadt with information from his future interrogation, and Claire rams him with the truck, allowing Doug to shoot him dead. Doug gets into the truck to try to free Claire, but police surround them. Out of time to disarm the bomb, they drive the vehicle into the river, saving the ferry passengers; Claire swims free, but Doug is unable to escape the damaged truck and dies in the underwater explosion. Picked up by a rescue boat, a mourning Claire is approached on the pier by the Doug Carlin from her present timeline.

####Demolition Man (film)####
####The Demolitionist####
####Denizen (film)####

A group of scientists must stop a mysterious creature from attacking a small town.  Sierra Deacon's (J.A. Steel) team, consisting of Dexter Maines (Ben Bayless) and Dallas Murphy (Jody Mullins), must help the locals led by Callie Calhoun (Julie Lisandro) in saving the town from the creature that is killing the residents.  After several deaths, a special Army Unit, led by General Jernigan (Glen Jensen),<ref name="Corman"/> is called in to contain the creature, and if necessary, destroy the town. It becomes a race against time to stop the creature and prevent the town from being destroyed.

####Dick Figures: The Movie####
In a world populated by stick figures, two stick figures named Red and Blue grow up together. As adults, they live together as roommates, with their girlfriends, Stacy and Pink. When Pink's birthday approaches, Red suggests that they go see the Raccoon at his pawnshop to get a gift for Pink.

The Raccoon tells them a story of when he lived in ancient Japan. His village fell under attack by Lord Takagami and his demon army. Raccoon, armed with the Sword of Destiny, single-handedly fought the army, but fell into a rage when he saw his wife swallowed by Ocho Muerte, a large octopus. If Blue finds the Sword and returns it to him, he will give Blue the perfect gift for Pink.

Red and Blue arrive in Japan and meet with the Raccoon's son, Son-san. They discover the hilt of the Sword and a large map with the locations of the other pieces, the blade and a jewel. Their retrieval of the hilt awakens Takagami and his ninjas, who give chase. The duo escapes out to sea on a rowboat, and they eventually end up in the middle of nowhere during an approaching storm. Lightning strikes their boat and a large wave sweeps them away. Shipwrecked on a tropical uninhabited island, they are rescued by alcoholic British pilot Captain Crookygrin. They fly to Paris, and are told to find the blade of the Sword at the Eiffel Tower, then return home to find the jewel.

Red abandons Blue to go partying. Blue decides to finish the quest alone, only to be captured by Takagami and taken to a nearby volcano where the jewel rests. Takagami reunites the jewel with the Sword and has Blue thrown into the lava. Red and Raccoon arrive just in time and a battle ensues with Red and Blue fighting the ninjas while the Raccoon fights Takagami with the Sword. Cutting off his mask, Raccoon discovers that Father-san is Takagami's real identity. Raccoon beheads him, and his remains fall into the lava, but his head transforms into Ocho Muerte, who heads off to attack their town. Ocho Muerte devours the Raccoon and nearly eats Pink, but not before Blue rescues her with the Sword. The Sword falls into Ocho Muerte's mouth and kills him in an explosion of light. They find Raccoon alive, as well as his wife Mama-san.  In return for Blue's bravery, Mama-san gives Blue and Pink the lotus flower that Papa-san once gave to her, blessing their love for each other. Red and Blue celebrate their successful quest.

####District 9####
In an alternate 1982, a giant extraterrestrial spaceship arrives on Earth and hovers over the South African city of Johannesburg. After three months of inactivity, human investigators find over one million malnourished aliens (called "prawns") inside, and the South African government relocates them to a terrestrial camp called District 9. However, over the years, it has turned into a slum, and locals from Earth often complain that the aliens are filthy, ignorant lawbreakers who bleed resources from humans.

28 years later, in 2010, following unrest between the aliens and locals, the government hires Multinational United (MNU), a huge weapons manufacturer, to relocate the aliens to a new camp outside the city. Piet Smit, an MNU executive, appoints MNU employee and his son-in-law Wikus van de Merwe to lead the relocation. Meanwhile, three aliens, Christopher Johnson, his young son CJ, and Christopher's friend Paul, search a District 9 garbage dump for alien fuel in Prawn technology, which Christopher has had them spend the last twenty years synthesizing enough of to enact his plan. They finally finish in Paul's shack, but when Wikus comes to the shack to serve Paul a relocation notice, Wikus finds the hidden container with the fuel and accidentally sprays some of it in his face while confiscating it. Paul is killed by Koobus Venter, a cruel leader of the MNU mercenaries.

Wikus begins mutating into a Prawn, starting with his left hand, which was injured after the fuel exposure and wrapped in bandages and put in a cast. After playing down his symptoms (vomiting, nosebleed, headache, and fingernail loss), he passes out during a party celebrating his promotion. He is taken to a hospital, where his left hand is now discovered to have become a prawn claw, and transferred to the MNU lab, where researchers perform brutal experiments. They find out his chimeric DNA grants him the ability to operate Prawn weaponry, which only works with the aliens' biology. Wanting to capture this human/alien hybrid before Wikus fully transforms, Smit orders Wikus's body to be vivisected and harvested for its properties. Wikus overpowers the lab personnel and escapes. While Koobus Venter's forces hunt for him, a smear story is broadcast on television, one that reaches Tania, Wikus' wife and Smit's daughter, claiming Wikus is a wanted fugitive who has contracted a contagious disease from copulating with aliens.

Wikus takes refuge in District 9, accidentally finding Christopher and the mother spaceship's concealed command module dropship underneath his slumhouse. Christopher explains to Wikus that the confiscated fuel is crucial to his plan of reactivating the dropship. If he can get them in the dropship to the mothership, he can cure Wikus and reverse his physical transformation. Wikus attempts to acquire weapons from the District 9 Nigerian arms dealer Obesandjo, who wants to eat Wikus's alien arm because he believes it will grant him alien abilities. Wikus, however, seizes an alien weapon and, able to use it, escapes with a collection of weapons he and Christopher can use to attempt the retrieval of the alien fuel.

Wikus and Christopher then force their way through MNU to the lab and retrieve the fuel. However, after seeing the barbaric experiments MNU has performed on his people in the lab (including a dissected Paul), Christopher tells Wikus he must return home as fast as possible for help and cannot undo Wikus' mutation until he returns in three years, due to the limited supply of the fuel. Enraged, Wikus knocks Christopher down and attempts to fly the dropship module to the mothership himself, but Koobus Venter's forces shoot it down. Venter captures Wikus and Christopher, but Obesandjo's gang ambushes the MNU convoy, seizes Wikus, and brings him to Obesandjo, who prepares to chop off Wikus' prawn arm.

Meanwhile, remaining hidden in the dropship, CJ remotely activates the mothership and a large mechanized battle suit located in Obesandjo's base. The suit guns down the Nigerians, and Wikus enters the suit and rescues Christopher from the mercenaries. Heading to the dropship, the two come under heavy human weapons fire, and Wikus stays behind to fend off the mercenaries, buying time for Christopher, who promises to return after three years and heal Wikus, to leave. After all of the other mercenaries are killed, Venter finally cripples the suit and is about to execute Wikus when slum aliens attack and dismember him alive. Christopher makes it into the dropship with CJ, and the dropship is levitated via a tractor beam back into the mothership, which Christopher then uses to leave Earth.

Humanity is left to speculate whether or not Christopher will return to take all the remaining aliens back to their home world, or whether he will return to declare war on Earth. MNU's experiments on the alien population are exposed by Wikus' former trainee Fundiswa, who is awaiting trial for exposing the programme, and the aliens are moved to the new camp, named District 10. Tania finds a metal flower on her doorstep, giving her hope that Wikus is still alive, and a now fully-transformed Wikus is shown in a junkyard crafting the flower for his wife.

####Divergent (film)####
In a future dystopian Chicago, society is divided into five factions: Abnegation (the selfless), Amity (the peaceful), Candor (the honest), Dauntless (the brave), and Erudite (the intellectual). The remaining population, the Factionless, have no status or privilege. Upon turning 16, children undergo a serum-induced psychological aptitude test which indicates their best-suited faction, but can choose any faction as their permanent group at the subsequent Choosing Ceremony.

Beatrice Prior was born into Abnegation, which runs the government. Her father Andrew serves on the ruling council along with Abnegation's leader Marcus Eaton. After her test results show equal attributes of multiple factions (Abnegation, Erudite, and Dauntless), marking her as Divergent, her proctor Tori Wu, a Dauntless woman, records her results as Abnegation, warns her to conceal her true results, and says that because Divergents' can think independently and sense any serums injected into them, the government feels they threaten the existing social order.

The next day, at the Choosing Ceremony, Beatrice's brother Caleb chooses Erudite, while, after some hesitation, she chooses Dauntless. Afterwards, she meets Christina, Al, and Will, three other faction transfers to Dauntless. Christina and Al are from Candor, and Will is from Erudite. Eric Coulter, a brutal Dauntless leader, reminds the initiates that anyone not meeting the faction's high expectations of commitment and fearlessness will become Factionless. Beatrice volunteers to jump from a tall building into a dark hole and lands into a net. When Four, a transfer initiates' instructor, asks her name, she shortens it to "Tris", shedding her earlier identity.

Tris initially struggles in Dauntless training and ranks far below the cutoff after the first evaluation, but with Four's help, she slowly improves. Eric matches her against her nemesis, Candor transfer Peter Hayes, in a fight, who soundly defeats her. Unwilling to miss the most important test, Capture The Flag, she leaves the infirmary, joins the other initiates, secures her team's victory, and makes the final cut. In the next phase of training, the initiates face their worst fears in psychological simulations. Tris's divergence allows her to creatively solve the tests, but Four warns her to hide her abilities and to solve them as a normal Dauntless would, as Divergents can also manipulate tests and serums. Tris visits Caleb, who tells her that Erudite plans to overthrow Abnegation. When she returns, Al, Peter, and their fellow Candor transfer Drew attack her before Four rescues her. The next day, Al begs Tris to forgive him but she refuses and calls him a coward. He later kills himself by jumping into "The Pit," rather than live with the shame.

To prepare her for the final test, Four takes Tris into his own fear simulations, where she learns he is Tobias Eaton, and his father Marcus used to beat him as a child. Tris then passes her test and officially joins Dauntless. The other Dauntless are injected with a serum from Erudite, supposedly for tracking but actually for mind control. The next morning, the Dauntless prepare to execute Abnegation under Erudite's orders. As the new serum fails on Divergents, Tris must blend in to avoid suspicion. She finds Four, who identifies as Divergent. When the Dauntless move to raid Abnegation, the pair separate from the group and attempt to locate her parents, but Eric, realizing Four is not under control, captures both of them, taking Four into custody and ordering Tris's execution. Her mother Natalie appears and saves her but is shot and killed as they attempt escape.

Tris finds her father hiding with Caleb, Marcus, and several Abnegation members. The group sneaks into Dauntless headquarters, where Tris encounters Peter and forces him to lead them to Erudite's control center. Her father sacrifices himself in a shootout, and Tris goes in alone to find Four, now under stronger mind control designed for Divergents. Knowing his fears, she manages to wake him from the mind control, and both enter the central control room, where Erudite's leader Jeanine Matthews nearly has Dauntless execute the entire Abnegation faction. Tris uses a sample of the mind control serum on her to force her to cancel the program. The group escapes the compound and boards a train out of the complex.

####The Divergent Series: Allegiant####
Evelyn re-closes Chicago's wall, and puts Jeanine's coup supporters on trial for their lives. Johanna turns her back on this, and is followed by many newly christened Allegiants. Tris and Four free Caleb and escape over the wall with Tori, Christina, and Peter. Edgar leads Factionless guards to catch them, killing Tori. Edgar catches them in the wastelands, but unknown soldiers with advanced technology rescue the group.

The group is taken to the Bureau of Genetic Welfare, a city of advanced technology hidden behind a cloaking shield. Society's problems were caused by some people tampering with their offspring's genes to give them advantages, but this led to the Purity Wars that destroyed most of the planet. The genetically "pure" (as compared to those with gene modifications, the "damaged") created the Bureau and its series of experiments, located in isolated ruined cities, in an attempt to trigger a naturally pure genome; Tris is the first to show the desired outcome.

Caleb and Peter are assigned to surveillance teams that remotely monitor Chicago, while Christina and Four are assigned to train under Nita in the military. Matthew brings Tris to David, the leader of the Bureau, who gives Tris a device that allows her to view her mother's memories. She sees that her mother was rescued from the wastelands as a child, then volunteered to join the Chicago experiment. Caleb warns Four and Tris of the conflict in Chicago between Allegiants and Factionless. Tris agrees to help David to continue the experiment if he asks the council to intervene in the fighting.

During a military rescue mission to a wasteland village, Four realizes that the Bureau is kidnapping children and wiping their memories. He attempts to warn Tris of the Bureau's intentions, but David interrupts them. Four urges Tris to return with him to end the bloodshed, but she decides to go with David, who agrees to return Four to Chicago with Matthew and some Bureau soldiers. En route, Matthew quietly warns Four that David has ordered his death. Four kills the soldiers, but the transport crashes. Matthew gives Four a device to allow passage through the cloaking shield. Matthew returns to the Bureau — and warns Tris.

Tris disagrees with the council's actions, saying that pure versus damaged is no better than the Chicago Factions, and chastises their refusal to stop the violence in Chicago. The council reveals that David, not them, has full authority over Chicago. David tells her that he intends to reinforce the Factions.

Tris ends her partnership with David and gathers Caleb and Christina in David's hovercar to return to Chicago. Nita helps them escape, revealing that David's rule is not popular with the Bureau. The Factionless capture Four, who confronts Evelyn about ending the violence. Tris, Caleb, and Christina arrive to find the city tearing itself apart at the opening stage of a full assault by the Allegiant. At the Bureau, David makes a deal with Peter in exchange for Peter's promotion and insertion into Chicago to convince Evelyn to deploy a hidden Bureau stockpile of amnesia gas, creating peace by wiping all factions' memories. She agrees, so Peter takes her to a hidden vault.

Four, Tris and Christina fight through the Factionless and arrive at the vault. Four convinces Evelyn to stop the gas attack, as he would not remember her. She capitulates, but a frustrated Peter shoots her in the leg, gloating until the same gas starts flooding the vault itself. Realizing David has betrayed him, Peter opens the vault so that Tris and Four can stop the gas. Peter flees back towards the Bureau, though Four vows to find and kill him.

Caleb arrives and aids Tris in destroying the gas dispersion hub. The group gathers atop the Erudite building as it watches David's hovercar, which autopilots back towards the Bureau. Tris transmits a message to the world, revealing the existence of Bureau and that Chicago was an experiment in genetic purity. Her message tells the Bureau that Chicago is no longer their experiment. Caleb then detonates the explosives they loaded in the hovercar, disrupting the cloak shield and revealing the Bureau to the world.

####The Divergent Series: Insurgent####
Five days after the assault on the Abnegation faction by the Erudite leader Jeanine and her mind-controlled Dauntless soldiers, Jeanine has declared martial law and that the Divergents and their allies are the enemy. Among the Abnegation wreckage, the Dauntless leaders Max and Eric recover a box with all five faction symbols on its sides. Jeanine presumes that it contains data from the city's founders and the means to end the Divergence problem. As only Divergents can open the box, she orders all Divergents to be captured.

The 17-year-old Divergent Tris; her Divergent boyfriend, Four, her Erudite brother Caleb; and the Dauntless troublemaker Peter hide within the Amity compound, led by Johanna. Eric leads a Dauntless crew to test all the occupants for Divergence. Peter discloses the group's location as the others escape and board a train headed into Factionless territory. Four reveals to the Factionless that his real name is Tobias Eaton, the son of the Factionless leader Evelyn, whom he still resents for leaving him with his abusive father, Marcus. At the Factionless hideout, Evelyn suggests that Dauntless and Factionless unite against Erudite, but Four declines. The next morning, the three leave for Candor to meet up with the remaining Dauntless who were given shelter there, including Tori and Tris's best friend, Christina. During the trek, a disheartened Caleb splits from the group. Upon arrival, Tris and Four are arrested and brought before Candor leader Jack Kang, who intends to deliver them to Jeanine. However, Four pleads for a trial with the use of Candor's truth serum. The serum reveals the real events, and they are absolved, but Tris tearfully admits killing Christina's lover, Will, which angers Christina.

The Dauntless who have sided with Jeanine attack Candor, and many Candor members are shot with metal disks. Max and Eric capture Tris and discover that she has a Divergent reading of 100%, making her the perfect subject to open the box. Four arrives to save Tris and executes Eric for his crimes. Meanwhile, Jeanine, frustrated that none of the Divergent subjects has survived the simulations required to open the box, is approached by Peter, who suggests the best way to get to Tris is by exploiting her selfless Abnegation upbringing.

Back at the Factionless base, Four reluctantly agrees with Evelyn that war is inevitable. Jeanine activates the disks, which are a mind control device that causes Christina and her friends Marlene and Hector to walk robotically towards a ledge and to ask for Tris's surrender. Tris and Tori manage to grab Christina and Hector in time, but Marlene plunges to her death. Overcome by guilt, Tris decides to turn herself in to Jeanine.

At the Erudite headquarters, Tris threatens to kill herself, rather than comply, but she is stopped by the presence of Caleb, who is fully recommitted to Erudite. Tris agrees to undergo the trials if the suicides cease. Under Jeanine, Caleb, and Peter's watch, Tris overcomes the first four simulations before she requires rest. The next day, after discovering that Four was captured while he tried to rescue her, she fails the Amity trial, and her vital signs cease, shocking Jeanine. Peter takes her body to Four, reveals he faked her death, and assists Four in overpowering the guards. Tris is now determined to unveil the box's message and so with Peter's help, they return to the simulation room, and she successfully opens the box in front of everyone. A hologram explains that the walled city and the faction system were part of an experiment, with the Divergents as its ultimate goal. The world is waiting outside for them to rejoin it. Realizing that she has lost all of her power, Jeanine orders the box to be buried and Four and Tris to be executed. However, the Factionless break into the room, incapacitate Max, and rescue the pair. Jeanine and Caleb are arrested and the message is broadcast to the entire city. Hailed as a hero, Tris is eager to explore the outside world. In her cell, Jeanine wonders what might lie beyond the wall. Evelyn tells Jeanine that she will never find out, then kills her.

####DNA (1997 film)####
Ash Mattley (Mark Dacascos), a doctor in a small village deep in the jungles of Borneo, is approached by another scientist, Carl Wessinger (Jürgen Prochnow) regarding his studies of an enzyme found in a rare beetle. With the aid of Mattley and a group of natives,

Wessinger secures several of the beetles, but then betrays his team and leaves them behind in a cave. Later, Wessinger uncovers a fossil in the jungle, but the natives in his new team fall in fear and worship before the deceased creature, which they call "Balakai."

Two years later, Mattley's clinic is beset by a series of gruesome murders in the jungle. The natives attribute the killings to Balakai, who is an ancient myth in the area. Mattley is enlisted by Claire Sommers (Robin McKee), a CIA agent, to find Wessinger.

The government had been monitoring Wessinger's activities in the jungle after he began working for them, but the doctor had recently fallen off radar, and Sommers reveals she has been sent to track him down. Together with Matzu (Tom Taus), a boy whose sister was one of the victims, they set out into the jungle. Mattley does not initially believe that Balakai is real, but Sommers eventually tells him that the CIA was funding Wessinger's research into the fossil, leading him to change his mind.

Mattley and Sommers eventually reach Wessinger's compound, only to find it abandoned. When they examine the computers in the main lab, they find that Wessinger used the enzyme from the beetles to reanimate Balakai's fossil; it was an alien creature that terrorized the jungle centuries earlier. He intended to make clones of it for sale to the highest bidder, but it grew hostile and escaped.

While fleeing from Balakai, who returned to the compound, Mattley and Sommers are separated from Matzu but find Wessinger and his assistants in a panic room. The two groups team up to keep the compound's power on and save Matzu, resulting in the death of Hatton (John H. Brennan). Balakai attacks in the main lab, but the flashing of Sommers's camera and the light from a helicopter frighten it away.

A band of mercenaries led by Sergeant Reinhardt (Mark McCracken) that work for Wessinger arrive in the helicopter, ostensibly to aid in recapturing the creature, but instead help Wessinger subdue and imprison Mattley and Sommers. They also decide to use Wessinger's assistant, Azenfeld (Roger Aaron Brown) as bait for the creature, but Mattley and Sommers escape and free him. In the ensuing battle, Azenfeld sacrifices himself to set off a bomb that kills most of the mercenaries and Wessinger.

Mattley, Sommers and Matzu escape into the jungle, pursued by both the remaining mercenaries in a second helicopter and Balakai, which is able to track them using invisibility and heat vision. After destroying the helicopter, they are attacked by the creature, and Matzu is killed when he warns Mattley and Sommers of its presence. Matzu's tribe arrives to give him a burial and prepare Mattley for battle against Balakai.

After a series of traps fails to do much damage, Mattley acquires a rocket launcher from Sommers and kills the creature by firing an explosive into its mouth. He and Sommers grow close at the bottom of a waterfall as the natives cheer and CIA rescue helicopters arrive.

####Dollman (film)####
On the planet Arturos, a criminal takes hostages at a laundry.  The crook is surprised when cop Brick Bardo defiantly enters to do his laundry.  Bardo causes the overweight hostages to faint and pin down the criminal when he threatens to shoot through their bodies with his powerful weapon. Although he saves the hostages, Bardo, already suspended for his violent methods, faces further criticism from the mayor. News segments also air claiming he killed multiple hostages.

Bardo is ambushed and kidnapped. After Bardo wakes up on a desert plain, his greatest enemy, Sprug, reveals he intends to kill Bardo with his own blaster, which Bardo had used to reduce Sprug to a floating head. Bardo uses a magnetic field to retrieve his blaster and kills Sprug's henchmen. Sprug escapes in his ship, and Bardo follows. Sprug and Bardo pass through an energy band, which shrinks them and sends them to Earth.

In the Bronx, New York City, Braxton Red and his gang run their neighborhood and kill any gangsters who intrude. Debi, a young Hispanic single mother, wants the police to do more. When Debi goes home, gangsters who know about her meddling – Hector, Wick, and Jackson – capture and threaten her. Before they can kill her, Bardo wounds Hector and kills Wick. Hector and Jackson run off, leaving Debi to wonder whether she is hallucinating. As she takes Bardo and his ship away, Braxton Red and his right hand man Armbruiser spot Sprug.  Sprug says he has a powerful bomb they can use in exchange for helping to repair his ship.

Debi introduces Bardo to her excited son, Kevin. At the hideout, Braxton kills Hector in a fit of rage when Jackson says it was his idea to kill Debi. Braxton disbelieves that a doll-sized man could hurt anybody, but he takes Jackson and several other gangsters with him to Debi's place to find the alleged Dollman. Bardo kills all of the gangsters except Braxton, who is seriously injured while fleeing. Sprug recognizes Bardo's handiwork. After Braxton agrees to his demands, Sprug partially heals his injuries.  When Sprug insists on taking over the gang, Braxton squashes Sprug. Though still wounded, Braxton resolves to kill Bardo.

Bardo overhears a commotion outside the apartment when Debi comes home from work. As Braxton and Armbruiser kidnap Debi, Bardo leaps out of a window and grabs onto their car as it speeds off. Bardo follows the gang to where the spaceships landed, where they plan to ambush him. Bardo uses an underground passage to surprise the gangsters and rescue Debi. A shootout ensues, and Bardo kills most of the gangsters by exploding their vehicles. Debi runs off, and Braxton follows. Feeling disrespected for keeping her alive for years, Braxton is about to shoot Debi, but Bardo distracts him and shoots off one of his arms. Debi stops Bardo from killing Braxton.  Braxton uses Sprug's bomb as a last resort murder-suicide, and Debi and Bardo run for cover. Debi, after seeing that Bardo is safe, smiles, and Bardo asks her if size counts.

####Dollman vs. Demonic Toys####
The film begins with Brick Bardo (Tim Thomerson from "Dollman") hitchhiking to get to the town of Pahoota, where he tries to find a girl named Nurse Ginger (Melissa Behr, playing her character from "Bad Channels"), to prove to her that she is not alone. Meanwhile, the film cuts to Judith Grey (Tracy Scoggins from "Demonic Toys"), who has a nightmare about the events that happened in the previous film a year before. Ever since the events that took place a year before, Judith has been watching the Toyland Warehouse, believing that the toys are still alive. Meanwhile, a drunken bum enters the warehouse to shelter from the rain, and starts to mess around with a clown tricycle until he gets knocked in the head with a box of toys, causing him to hit his head on the ground, killing him. However, his blood continues to flow over to the place where the demon was buried and brings back Baby Oopsy Daisy, Jack Attack, and Mr. Static. Grizzly Teddy is replaced by a new toy named Zombietoid – a blonde GI Joe action figure with a machete as a weapon.

Judith, who is now inside the building, sees the toys in full view, but is then arrested for breaking into a secluded building while serving out a suspension. After the police leave, the toys force the new security guard, Ray Vernon to help them with their needs. Ginger, who spends her time on a kitchen counter all alone, is being harassed by a sleazy reporter for an interview and so she reluctantly agrees so he'll leave her in peace. After he leaves, a big spider appears and as Ginger screams, Brick suddenly shows up and shoots it dead. Then a surprised Ginger asks Brick how he's so tiny like her, which results in both characters recapping their stories.

Meanwhile, Judith, who now knows about Nurse Ginger and Brick Bardo's history, bribes the news reporter to tell her where they are, and tells her they are in Pahoota. Judith, after having a deal with Bardo and Ginger to help her kill the toys, go to the warehouse and Ginger initially doesn't believe the tale about the toys being really alive. Meanwhile, the toys kill a blonde hooker and makes her bleed on the place, where the demon was buried. As Judith and friends enter the building, a fight begins, ending with Judith weakenly shooting Ray in the head, killing him before getting shot herself by Mr. Static, which then Brick blasts him to pieces. Brick, who has made a promise to Judith "'(""'cop to cop thing""')"', continues to finish that promise, but Zombietoid knocks his gun out of his hand and it falls under a pile of crates, has his hands and feet tied to two toy trucks, and Ginger tied on to a clock when they are separated inside the ventilation shafts.

Baby Oopsy Daisy explains to Brick that once midnight strikes, the Demon's soul is going to go inside Baby Oopsy Daisy so he can rape Nurse Ginger, make the baby, eat its soul from the shell, and become a human. As Baby Oopsie Daisy is about to kill Brick, Ginger breaks free, cuts him loose, and gets carried away by Zombietoid, who continues to go after Brick. Brick and Zombietoid begin fighting, until Zombietoid's machete gets caught in an electric socket, killing him. After using a hockey stick to retrieve his gun, Brick continues on and finds Jack Attack, whom he kills by blasting Jack Attack's head to bloody smithereens, leaving only his torso intact.

Brick finally gets to the dollhouse shortly after the stroke of midnight and sees Baby Oopsy Daisy undressing Ginger in preparation for sex. Baby Oopsy Daisy demands Brick to drop his firearm or he will quickly kill Ginger with cervical dislocation. Brick complies and tosses his gun out of his reach. Baby Oopsy Daisy tries to penetrate Ginger, but is once again interrupted, this time due to a hard kick to his groin by Ginger after he unwittingly mentions that he is now possessed by "The Master". The low blow causes her to be released from Baby Oopsy Daisy's grasp, giving Brick the opportunity to quickly summon his gun where he then fatally shoots the bewildered Baby Oopsy Daisy several times. Brick continues to call the police and tells them that Judith Grey died in the line of duty and leaves, along with Nurse Ginger, in a cab that is on its way back to Pahoota.

####Doom: Annihilation####
On a United Aerospace Corporation (UAC) base on Phobos, Dr. Betruger prepares to teleport a volunteer from a UAC lab in Nevada to Phobos by using ancient teleporters known as "Gates". The experiment proves successful, but the subject emerges partially deformed and insane. On a UAC transport vessel, a group of marines on a mission to guard the Phobos base awaken from cryosleep. Amongst them is Joan Dark, a disgraced lieutenant the other marines are reluctant to work with. Joining them is Bennett Stone, a scientist, and ex-boyfriend of Joan. Against Dr. Kahn's wishes, Betruger prepares to teleport himself to the Nevada base. After preparations by medic Veronica, Betruger passes through the Gate. However, the Phobos base suddenly goes offline as monsters emerge from the Gate.

Unable to communicate with or enter the base, the Marines receive orders to investigate and restore power. They enter via the emergency entrance and Bennett discovers that the reserve power has been drained to two percent, granting them 90 minutes before the fusion reactor goes critical and explodes. The marines are then attacked by UAC staff who have been turned into zombie-like creatures. During the attack, the marines find three survivors: Betruger, Veronica, and the base's Chaplain, Glover. Betruger reveals that the UAC has been studying the Gates for 30 years in order to colonize planets. It is believed that the Gates were left by an ancient alien race while Glover believes them to be demons. Against Betruger's wishes, Joan orders the remaining marines and survivors to evacuate the base.

Upon returning to the transport, the crew is attacked by Imp-like demons, killing several marines, including Glover. With the transport disabled, Joan agrees to Betruger's plan to restore power to use the Gate to teleport the survivors to the Nevada base, however, she reveals to Bennett that her agreement was a ruse to restore communications. As Bennett restores the base's power, Betruger reveals that Joan was disgraced for allowing a terrorist to go free due to poor judgment. Betruger then kills Veronica and seals the marines in the power server, who are then attacked by Imps. With only Joan and Bennett left standing, they plan to stop Betruger from activating the Gate.

After Joan acquires the BFG 9000, Bennett is attacked by an Imp. As Joan shoots her way to the Gate chamber, she is attacked by a zombified Bennett, forcing her to kill him. Joan then shoots Betruger, who resurrects immediately and pushes Joan into the Gate. Joan is teleported to hell, where she encounters a horde of Imps and Stanga, their overlord. Stanga reveals that they plan to reclaim the Earth and annihilate humanity. Joan shoots him and blasts the horde with plasma grenades as she makes her way back to the Gate. She is then teleported to the Nevada base and demands that the Gate be shut down. She is apprehended and sedated by security. Before losing consciousness, the Gate begins to reactivate. Dr. Kahn believes it to be Betruger coming through. As the film cuts to black, a growl is heard.

####Doomsday (2008 film)####
####Double Dragon (film)####
####Downstream (2010 film)####
####Dragonball Evolution####
Two thousand years ago, the Namek King Piccolo came to Earth and wreaked havoc. Seven mystics were able to seal Piccolo away using a powerful enchantment called the Mafuba. However, he breaks free in present day, and with his ninja-like henchwoman Mai, begins searching for the seven Dragonballs, killing anyone in his path.

On his eighteenth birthday, martial artist and high school senior Goku is given the four-star Dragonball by his  Grandpa Gohan. Returning home from a party hosted by his crush Chi-Chi, Goku finds his home destroyed by Piccolo, who was looking for the Dragonball. Before he dies, Gohan tells Goku to seek out martial arts guru Master Roshi, who has another one of the Dragonballs.

Goku then meets Bulma of the Capsule Corporation, who has invented a device that locates the Dragonballs. Goku offers Bulma protection in exchange for helping him find Roshi. After finding him in Paozu City, Roshi joins their search and begins helping Goku master his ki. During their search for another Dragonball, they fall into a trap set by the desert bandit Yamcha, whom Roshi convinces to join them by promising some of the royalties for Bulma's invention. Together, they fight off an ambush by Mai and obtain the next Dragonball.

As the group continues their quest, they visit The World Martial Arts Tournament where Chi-Chi is competing; she fights Mai in a match, who steals a sample of her blood. Chi-Chi briefly joins the group as they travel to a temple where Roshi consults his former teacher Sifu Norris and begins preparing a new Mafuba enchantment to reseal Piccolo, while Chi-Chi helps Goku in his training to learn the most powerful of the ki-bending techniques: the Kamehameha Wave. That night, Mai arrives having used Chi-Chi's blood to assume her appearance. Unable to tell Mai from Chi-Chi, Goku accidentally knocks out Chi-Chi and is shot by Mai, who steals the team's Dragonballs. Goku, Bulma, Yamcha, and Roshi go in pursuit of Mai and Piccolo.

Having all acquired all seven Dragonballs, Piccolo arrives at the Dragon Temple and begins to summon Shenron, but is stopped by the timely arrival of Goku's team. During the ensuing battle, Piccolo reveals to Goku that he is his minion, Ōzaru the Great Ape, having been sent to Earth as an infant to destroy it when he was older. As the solar eclipse transforms Goku into Ōzaru. Roshi attempts to use the Mafuba on Piccolo, but he doesn't have enough energy allowing Piccolo to break free. Ōzaru chokes Roshi to death, but his dying words enable Goku to fight back Ōzaru. He engages Piccolo in a final battle, seemingly defeating him with the Kamehameha Wave. Goku then uses the Dragonballs to summon Shenron, restoring Roshi back to life.

As the group celebrates, Bulma declares that the Dragonballs have scattered, and that they must search for them again. Before heading out, Goku meets with Chi-Chi and apologizes for knocking her unconscious, and they begin a sparring match.

In a mid-credits scene, Piccolo is revealed to be alive and treated by a woman.

####The Dresden Sun####
####Dune (1984 film)####
####Dune Warriors####
Set in the year 2040, a group of outlaws prey upon the small cities in hopes to obtain any water they might possess. When they attempt to take over the town of Chinle, a mysterious warrior named Michael (Carradine) leads a band of fighters to ward off their attack.

####Eagle Eye####
In January 2009, Stanford University dropout Jerry Shaw learns that his identical twin brother Ethan, an officer in the U.S. Air Force, has been killed.  Following the funeral, Jerry is surprised to find $750,000 in his bank account and his apartment filled with illegal firearms and bomb making materials.  He receives a phone call from a woman who warns that the FBI is about to arrest him and he needs to run.  Jerry is caught by the FBI and interrogated by Supervising Agent Tom Morgan.

While Morgan confers with Air Force OSI Special Agent Zoe Pérez, the woman on the phone arranges for Jerry's escape and directs him to Rachel Holloman, a single mother.  The woman on the phone is coercing Rachel by threatening her son Sam, who is aboard the "Capitol Limited" en route to the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C. with his school band.  The woman on the phone helps the two avoid law enforcement by controlling networked devices, including traffic lights, mobile phones, automated cranes, and even power lines.

Meanwhile, the caller redirects a crystalline explosive to a gemcutter, who cuts it and fixes it into a necklace.  Another man steals Sam's trumpet in Chicago and fits the crystal's sonic trigger into the tubing before forwarding it to Sam in Washington.

Agent Perez is summoned by Secretary of Defense George Callister to be read into Ethan's job at the Pentagon.  Ethan monitored the Department of Defense's top-secret intelligence-gathering supercomputer, the Autonomous Reconnaissance Intelligence Integration Analyst (ARIIA; IPAc-en|ɑːr|iː|ə).  Callister leaves Perez with Major William Bowman and ARIIA to investigate Ethan Shaw's death.  Simultaneously, Rachel and Jerry learn that the woman on the phone is actually ARIIA, and that she has "activated" them according to the Constitution's authorization to recruit civilians for the national defense.

Perez and Bowman find evidence that Ethan Shaw hid in ARIIA's chamber and leave to brief Callister.  Afterwards, ARIIA smuggles Jerry and Rachel into her observation theater under the Pentagon.  Both groups learn that after ARIIA's recommendation was ignored and a botched operation in Balochistan resulted in the deaths of U.S. citizens, ARIIA concluded that "to prevent more bloodshed, the executive branch must be removed."  ARIIA is acting on behalf of "We the People", and cites the Declaration of Independence ("whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it").

Belatedly, Jerry learns he has been brought to circumvent biometric locks placed by his twin that prevent ARIIA from activating Operation Guillotine, a military simulation of maintaining government after the loss of all presidential successors.  Because Secretary Callister agreed with ARIIA's abort recommendation regarding Balochistan, he is to be the designated survivor and new president after the crystal detonates at the State of the Union (SOTU).

Another of ARIIA's agents extracts Rachel from the Pentagon and gives her a dress and the explosive necklace to wear to the SOTU.  Sam's school band has also been redirected to the United States Capitol to play for the president, bringing the trigger in Sam's trumpet and the explosive together.  Jerry is recaptured by Agent Morgan, who has become convinced of Jerry's innocence.  Before sacrificing himself to stop an armed MQ-9 Reaper sent by ARIIA, Morgan gives Jerry his weapon and ID with which to gain entrance to the Capitol.  Arriving in the House Chamber, Jerry fires the handgun in the air to disrupt the concert before being shot and wounded by the Secret Service.

Sometime later, in April 2009, Callister reports that ARIIA has been decommissioned and recommends against building another; the Shaw twins and Agents Perez and Morgan receive awards for their actions; and Jerry attends Sam's birthday party, earning Rachel's gratitude and a kiss.

####Edge of Tomorrow####
In 2015, aliens called "Mimics" arrive in Germany via an asteroid and swiftly conquer most of continental Europe. By 2020, the United Defense Force (UDF), a global military alliance established to combat the alien threat, finally achieves a victory over the Mimics at Verdun using newly developed mech-suits. In Britain, the UDF plans a major invasion of France, and General Brigham orders recently attached public affairs officer Major William "Bill" Cage to cover it. Cage, having no combat experience, objects and threatens to blame Brigham if the invasion fails. Brigham has Cage arrested and sent to Heathrow Airport, now a military base. Cage awakens to find Brigham has demoted him to a private and falsely labelled him a deserter. He is assigned to Master Sergeant Farell and the misfit J-Squad, all of whom dislike and belittle him.

On the morning of the invasion, Farell and J-Squad are quickly killed by the Mimics who were somehow aware of their planned invasion and ambushed them. Cage uses a Claymore mine to kill an unusually large blue Mimic but is mortally wounded by the explosion and covered in the alien's blood. Cage jolts awake to find himself back at Heathrow, reliving the previous morning. His attempts to warn Farell against the invasion are ignored and he experiences the loop of dying on the beach and waking at Heathrow repeatedly. With every subsequent loop, Cage's battlefield skills become more and more impressive. During one loop, Cage tries to save Sergeant Rita Vrataski, a celebrated hero of the battle of Verdun. Upon seeing his preternatural talent, Vrataski realizes Cage can loop time and orders him to find her the next time he wakes up.

Cage reawakens and locates Vrataski, who takes him to Dr. Carter, an expert in Mimic biology. He explains that the Mimics are a superorganism in which the "Omega" controls the cerebrum, while the "Alphas" behave as the ganglia through which the Omega controls ordinary Mimics; if an Alpha is terminated, the Omega resets the day and adjusts its tactics until the battle is won. Cage inadvertently "hijacked" their ability to reset time through his exposure to an Alpha's blood. Vrataski had this ability at Verdun, using it to win the battle before she was wounded and received a blood transfusion, losing the power. She tells Cage to locate and kill the Omega to end the alien invasion.

Over many more loops, Vrataski trains Cage to excel in combat. After a frustrating lesson, Cage escapes to London, only to discover that the Mimics will attack there next after the invasion. After seeing visions of a dam in Switzerland where the Omega is hiding and spending many loops figuring how to escape the invasion and reach the dam, Cage grows closer to Vrataski, but she is only interested in the mission. Convinced that the pair always reach a point on the journey where Vrataski is killed no matter what they do, Cage flies to the dam alone. The Omega is not there and he is ambushed by an Alpha which attempts to strip him of his ability to reset time, but Cage deliberately drowns himself.

Cage and Vrataski infiltrate the Ministry of Defence, where Cage convinces Brigham to give him Carter's prototype device (which Brigham had confiscated from Carter before sending him to a psych ward) that can locate the Omega, but they are pursued by military police on leaving. During the ensuing car chase, Cage uses the device and discovers the Omega is under the Louvre Pyramid in Paris. Cage is seriously injured during capture and wakes up in a hospital to find he has been given a blood transfusion and has lost the ability to loop time.

Vrataski frees Cage and they recruit J-Squad to help destroy the Omega before the invasion begins. They fly to Paris, where the soldiers sacrifice themselves so that Cage and Vrataski can reach the Louvre. Before luring away an Alpha standing between them and the submerged Omega, Vrataski kisses Cage to thank him for getting her as far as he did. The Alpha kills Vrataski and mortally wounds Cage, but he manages to drop a belt of grenades that destroys the Omega.

As a dying Cage floats down into the Omega's blood, he awakens en route to his first meeting with Brigham, who announces on TV that Mimic activity has ceased following a mysterious energy surge in Paris. Cage goes to Heathrow, now a Major again, and sees that all of J-Squad is alive. He later finds Vrataski, who doesn't recognize him; Cage laughs.

####Eliminators (1986 film)####
After returning from a scouting mission in a time machine, the Mandroid gives a Roman centurion shield to his master Abbot Reeves. Reeves orders the Mandroid to be dismantled (killed), but Reeves' assistant Takada tries to help the Mandroid to escape. Although Takada dies in the escape attempt, he tells the Mandroid to seek scientist Col. Nora Hunter for help in stopping Reeves from enacting an evil plan. In the U.S., the Mandroid finds Hunter and reveals himself to her. She believed Reeves to be dead and recognizes her designs for a Mars probe in the Mandroid. She repairs damage done to the Mandroid in his escape. The Mandroid plans to return to stop Reeves' evil plans (whatever they may be) and Hunter insists on accompanying him as his mechanic. She also brings along S.P.O.T., a small flying scout robot of her own design.

Arriving in Mexico, Hunter hires the best river boat captain she can find in a seedy bar, one Harry Fontana, and they head down a river. After running afoul of rival riverboat captains and Reeves' men, they end up finding the Mandroid's crashed plane after an encounter with a tribe of cavemen brought to this time by Reeves' time travel experiments. They also meet Kuji, the ninja son of Doctor Takada, who has come to find his father. The Mandroid informs him that his father is dead, killed by Reeves. He joins the group, which then storms Reeves' headquarters, only to be captured by Reeves, now a cyborg himself, more advanced than the Mandroid, whose body is designed to look like Roman armor. Reeves plans to travel back to ancient Rome and become the new Caesar.

The Mandroid fights Reeves and is quickly defeated.  Badly damaged, the Mandroid sacrifices his life to free the rest of the group.  They pursue Reeves to his laboratory just in time to watch him escape to ancient Rome in his time machine.  In frustration, Fontana smashes the laboratory control panel, causing the time machine to overshoot its target date and maroon Reeves hundreds of millions of years in the past.

####Elysium (film)####
In 2154, Earth is overpopulated, diseased, and polluted. The planet’s citizens live in poverty while the rich and powerful live on Elysium, an orbiting space station just outside of Earth’s atmosphere.

Spider, a hacker living on Earth in Los Angeles, runs three space shuttle flights to Elysium to smuggle people in to use their Med-Bays, devices that can heal any disease or condition. Elysium Defense Secretary Delacourt shoots down two of the spacecraft in space, killing everyone on board, and has everyone on the shuttle that does reach Elysium arrested and deported. Elysium President Patel reprimands Delacourt for her actions, threatening discharge for any more actions of a similar manner. In retaliation, she offers Armadyne Corp CEO John Carlyle defense contracts for life in exchange for a program that will allow Delacourt to conduct a coup and install herself as president. Carlyle writes the program and stores it inside his brain.

On Earth, parolee Max Da Costa is working for Armadyne Corp as a laborer when he is accidentally exposed to a lethal dose of radiation. He is given medication and told he has five days to live after being dismissed by Carlyle from Armadyne. Max and his friend Julio approach Spider and make a deal: If Max can successfully steal information from a powerful Elysium citizen, in exchange Spider will give Max a shuttle ride to Elysium to use a Med-Bay to cure his condition. Max demands that the target be his former boss John Carlyle. Due to his health, Spider provides Max with a powerful exoskeleton via surgery to significantly increase his strength and stamina. Max and Julio shoot down Carlyle's shuttle to Elysium and extract the program from his brain. Delacourt sends a black ops team led by Agent Kruger (whose contract Patel had terminated for shooting the shuttles down) to retrieve it. Kruger kills Julio but an injured Max escapes with a copy of the coup program while Carlyle's death destroys any possibility of further retrieval from his brain.

Max seeks help from his childhood friend and nurse, Frey, who patches him up. Max goes to Spider, who realizes what the data in Max's head is worth; Delacourt locks down all flights up to Elysium, leaving Spider unable to take Max. Max angrily leaves, though not before Spider is able to discreetly place a tracking device on Max. After Kruger kidnaps Frey and her daughter, Max approaches him and offers him the data in exchange for the use of a Med-Bay. Kruger accepts and Delacourt lifts the lockdown so the group can travel to Elysium. During the flight, Kruger and Max fight over the data and a grenade explodes in Kruger's face, damaging the ship. The ship then crashes on Elysium; Max is arrested and taken to Delacourt, who orders a team to extract the data. Max escapes and heads to the armory to save Frey, who has been turned over to Kruger's men. Kruger is revived by a Med-Bay and confronted by Delacourt, whom he fatally wounds. He orders his men to start killing the politicians on the station while he dons a more advanced exoskeleton suit to hunt down Max, planning to initiate the coup protocol for himself.

Spider lands on Elysium and finds Max. Spider makes a deal with Max to have his men protect Frey and get her daughter to a Med-Bay in exchange for the data. They make their way to the computer core, where they are confronted by Kruger. Max and Kruger engage in a brutal fight, which ends with Max managing to disable Kruger's connection to his suit; Kruger responds by attempting murder/suicide via grenade, but Max is able to overcome this.  Kruger subsequently dies. Spider and Max connect to the computer and Spider realizes that the data will kill Max if he downloads it. Max says his goodbyes to Frey and initiates the download, which kills him but allows Frey to heal her daughter. The police arrive but are unable to arrest Spider, as everyone on Earth is now considered a citizen of Elysium. Medical shuttles loaded with Med-Bays are dispatched to Earth to begin healing everyone that needs help.

####The Empire Strikes Back####
####Ender's Game (film)####
####Enemy Mine (film)####
####Equalizer 2000####
In post-nuclear Alaska, a fascist group ("The Ownership" also featured in "Wheels of Fire") battles rebels in hopes of possessing a massive weapon—the "Equalizer 2000" of the title, created by ex-Ownership Captain Slade who joins the rebellion to defeat Mayor Lawton.  Lawton killed Slade's father (The Ownership's field commander) and he also wants to kill General MacLaine, The Ownership's leader, to be the new leader.

####Equilibrium (film)####
Libria, a totalitarian city-state established by survivors of World War III, blames human emotion as the cause for the war. Any activity or object that stimulates emotion is strictly forbidden. Those in violation are labelled "Sense Offenders" and sentenced to death. The population is forced to take a daily injection of "Prozium II" to suppress emotion. Libria is governed by the Tetragrammaton Council, led by "Father", who communicates propaganda through giant video screens throughout the city. At the pinnacle of law enforcement are the Grammaton Clerics, trained in the martial art of gun kata. Clerics frequently raid homes to search for and destroy illegal materials – art, literature and music – executing violators on the spot. A resistance movement, known as the "Underground", emerges to topple Father and the Tetragrammaton Council.

thu
In 2072, John Preston is a high-ranking Cleric whose wife, Viviana, was executed as a Sense Offender, leaving him as a single father of two. Following a raid, Preston notices that his partner, Errol Partridge, saves a book of poems by W. B. Yeats instead of turning it in for incineration. He follows Partridge to the Nether – a term for regions outside the city – and finds him reading the book. After seeing Preston, Partridge says that he gladly pays the heavy price of feeling emotion; Preston executes him as Partridge slowly reaches for his gun.

Preston accidentally breaks a vial of Prozium, and experiences brief episodes of emotion. He then intentionally skips further doses, hiding them behind the mirror in his bathroom. Partridge is replaced with an ambitious, career-conscious Andrew Brandt, who expresses admiration for Preston's "uncompromising" work as a Cleric. On a raid, they arrest a Sense Offender, Mary O'Brien. To Brandt's surprise, Preston prevents him from executing O'Brien, saying she should be kept alive for interrogation. Brandt grows suspicious of Preston's hesitation.

Preston begins to feel remorse for killing Partridge and develops an emotional relationship with O'Brien. He uncovers clues that lead to meeting Jurgen, leader of the Underground. Jurgen is planning to disrupt Prozium production to spark a populist uprising and convinces Preston that Father must be assassinated. Vice-Counsel DuPont meets with Preston to reveal that there is a traitor in the upper ranks of the Clerics. Although DuPont initially suspects it is Preston, he assigns him the task of unmasking the traitor. Relieved, Preston accepts and promises to locate the Underground's leadership.

Meanwhile, O'Brien is set to be executed, and Jurgen advises against interfering, believing that it could sabotage plans for the revolution. Unable to bear her death, Preston attempts to stop the execution and fails. He has an emotional breakdown and is arrested by Brandt, who brings him before DuPont. Preston tricks DuPont into believing that Brandt is the traitor. Following Brandt's arrest, Preston is told that his home will be searched as a formality. He rushes home to destroy the hidden vials only to discover that his son, who stopped taking Prozium after his mother died, already has.

Jurgen tells Preston to capture the leaders of the resistance to regain government trust, hoping it will get Preston close enough to assassinate Father. Preston does and is granted an exclusive audience with Father, only to discover that Brandt was not arrested; it was part of a ruse to expose Preston and the Underground. DuPont reveals that he is Father, having secretly replaced the late original Father, and that his cabal does not take Prozium. He taunts Preston, asking how it felt to betray the Underground. Enraged, Preston fights his way through an army of bodyguards to DuPont's office, confronting and killing Brandt in a katana battle. DuPont and Preston engage in a gun kata showdown. Preston wins as DuPont pleads for his life asking, "Is it really worth the price?" Paying homage to Partridge's last words, he responds, "I pay it gladly" and kills DuPont. He destroys the command center that broadcasts Father propaganda. The Underground destroys Prozium manufacturing plants, signaling the beginning of the revolution.

####Escape from L.A.####
In 2000, a massive earthquake strikes the city of Los Angeles, cutting it off from the mainland as the San Fernando Valley floods. Declaring that God is punishing Los Angeles for its sins, a theocratic presidential candidate wins election to a lifetime term of office. He orders the United States capital relocated from Washington, D.C. to his hometown of Lynchburg, Virginia and enacts a series of strict morality laws. Violators are given a choice between loss of U.S. citizenship and permanent deportation to the new Los Angeles Island, or repentance and death by electrocution. Escape from the island is made impossible due to a containment wall erected along the mainland shore and a heavy federal police presence monitoring the area.

By 2013, the U.S. has developed a superweapon known as the "Sword of Damocles," a satellite system capable of targeting electronic devices anywhere in the world and rendering them useless. The president intends to use it to dominate the world by destroying hostile nations' ability to function. His daughter Utopia steals the remote control for the system and escapes to Los Angeles Island in order to deliver it to Cuervo Jones, a Peruvian Shining Path revolutionary. Cuervo has marshaled an invasion force of third world nations and is planning to attack and reclaim the U.S.

Facing deportation for a series of crimes, Snake Plissken is offered a chance to earn a pardon by traveling to the island and recovering the remote, a task that a previous rescue team failed to accomplish. To force his compliance, the president has one of his officers infect Snake with a virus that will kill him within 10 hours and promises that he will receive the cure upon completing the mission. The president is not concerned with Utopia's safety, regarding her as a traitor.

Snake is issued equipment and sent to Los Angeles in a one-man submarine. As he explores the island, he meets "Map to the Stars" Eddie, a swindler who sells interactive tours and one of Cuervo's associates. Along the way, Snake is helped by Pipeline, a surfing enthusiast; Taslima, a woman deported for her Muslim faith; and Hershe Las Palmas (formerly Carjack Malone), a trans woman and past criminal associate of Snake's.

Eddie captures Snake and turns him over to Cuervo, who uses the Sword of Damocles to shut down Lynchburg in retaliation for Snake's presence. Cuervo threatens to inflict the same fate on the rest of the U.S. unless his demands are met. Snake escapes, and teams up with Hershe and her soldiers. The group travels by glider to the invasion staging area, at the "Happy Kingdom" in Anaheim. During a fight against Cuervo's troops, Snake takes the remote and Eddie alters the one for his tours to match it. Snake, Eddie, Utopia, Hershe, and a group of Hershe's soldiers escape the island in a helicopter. Eddie shoots Cuervo, who fires a rocket launcher and hits the helicopter before dying. Eddie jumps clear at liftoff, and Snake and Utopia do the same over the mainland and leave the helicopter to crash once Snake alerts the president to their approach.

At the crash site, the president and his officers find that both Snake and Utopia are carrying remotes and take the one held by Utopia (slipped into her pocket without her noticing), thinking that Snake has switched them. As Utopia is taken to the electric chair, Snake learns that the virus infecting him only causes a severe case of influenza that subsides within hours. The president tries to use Utopia's remote to neutralize an invasion force threatening Florida, but it only plays a recorded introduction to one of Eddie's tours.

Furious, the president orders his officers to kill Snake on the spot, but he proves to be only a hologram projected from a miniature camera that had been issued to him. Disgusted at the world's never-ending class warfare, he programs the real remote and triggers every satellite in the Sword of Damocles system, deactivating all technology on Earth. Utopia is saved when the power fails just before she can be electrocuted. Snake tosses the now-useless camera aside and lights a cigarette, then blows out the match and mutters, "Welcome to the human race."

####Escape from Mars####
####Escape from New York####
In a dystopian 1988, amidst total war against an alliance of China and the Soviet Union, the United States government has turned Manhattan into a giant maximum-security prison to deal with a 400% increase in crime. A convert|50|ft|m|adj=on wall surrounds the island, bridges have been mined, rivers are patrolled by helicopters and all prisoners unlucky to be alive are sentenced to life terms in Manhattan.

In 1997, while flying President John Harker to a peace summit in Hartford, Air Force One is hijacked by a guerrilla fighter of the "National Liberation Front of America" (named in reference to the Viet Cong) posing as the stewardess. Unable to regain control, Secret Service agents attach a tracking device to the President's arm and handcuff him to a briefcase of sensitive documents before putting him in the plane's escape pod. The aircraft crashes while the pod is ejected.

Police are dispatched to rescue the President. Romero, the right-hand man of the Duke of New York, a powerful crime boss, shows them a severed finger with the President's signet ring and warns that he will be killed if any further rescue attempts are made. Meanwhile, former Special Forces soldier Snake Plissken is about to be sent into Manhattan after being convicted of robbing the Federal Reserve. Police Commissioner Bob Hauk offers a deal to Snake: if he rescues the President in time for the summit, Hauk will arrange a full presidential pardon. To keep Snake from going rogue, Hauk has him injected with micro-explosives that will sever his carotid arteries in 22 hours. If Snake is successful, Hauk will neutralize the explosives.

Using a stealth glider to land atop the World Trade Center, Snake follows the President's tracker to a vaudeville theater only to find it on the wrist of a deluded vagrant. Convinced the President is dead, Snake radios Hauk but is told that he will be shot down if he returns without the President. Inspecting the escape pod, Snake is ambushed by dozens of starving "Crazies", and accidentally drops and destroys his radio while trying to flee. He is rescued by "Cabbie", a jovial old man who drives an armored taxi.

Cabbie takes Snake to Harold "Brain" Hellman, an adviser to the Duke and a former associate of Snake's. Brain, a brilliant engineer, has established a small gasoline refinery, fueling the city's remaining cars and tells Snake that the Duke plans to lead a mass escape across the (fictional) 69th Street Bridge by using the President as a human shield and following a landmine map that Brain has drawn up. Snake forces Brain and his girlfriend Maggie to lead him to the Duke's hideout at Grand Central Terminal. Snake finds the President but gets shot in the leg with a crossbow bolt and overpowered by the Duke's men.

While Snake is forced to fight against Duke's champion Slag in a deathmatch, Brain and Maggie kill Romero and flee with the President. Snake kills Slag and finds Brain, Maggie and the President at the top of the World Trade Center trying to escape in the glider. The inmates drop it off the roof, so the group returns to street level and encounters Cabbie who offers to take them across the bridge. Cabbie reveals that he bartered with Romero for the contents of the briefcase: a cassette tape which contains information about nuclear fusion, intended to be an international peace offering. The President demands the tape but Snake claims it.

The Duke pursues them onto the bridge in his customized Cadillac, setting off mines as he tries to catch up. Brain guides Snake but they hit a mine and Cabbie is killed. As they continue on foot, Brain accidentally stumbles into another mine. A distraught Maggie sacrifices herself to slow down the Duke. Snake and the President reach the containment wall and guards hoist the President up. The Duke opens fire with Snake's MAC-10, killing the guards before Snake subdues him. He attempts to shoot Snake as he is being lifted up by the rope but the President takes up a dead guard's rifle, violently guns down the Duke and hoists Snake to safety. Hauk's doctor saves Snake's life with just seconds to spare.

As the President prepares for a televised speech to the leaders at the summit meeting, he thanks Snake and tells him that he can have anything he wants. Snake then asks how he feels about the people who died saving his life. The President offers only half-hearted regret and lip service for their sacrifice, and Snake walks away in disgust. An impressed Hauk offers him a job as his deputy but Snake just keeps walking. The President's live speech commences and he plays the cassette tape. To his embarrassment, it only plays Cabbie's favorite song, "Bandstand Boogie". As Snake walks away a free man, he tears the magnetic strip out of the real tape.

####The Escape (2016 film)####
After the disappearance of geneticist Dr. Nora Phillips and the exposure of the Molecular Genetics company's illegal activities in human cloning, the FBI raids the facility to arrest its key people. One surviving specimen, Lily, is escorted by a ruthless mercenary gunman named Holt to be delivered to an unnamed customer who bought the specimen.

The Driver is hired to transport the package with Holt "babysitting" him, ordering the hired driver to evade the FBI forces. En route to delivering Lily, the Driver develops a strong dislike for Holt's violent and inhuman treatment of Lily as an object rather than a human being. The Driver kicks the mercenary out of the car by subduing him and holding him at gunpoint. Holt pursues the Driver and tries to stop the car with a sniper rifle via helicopter, but the Driver incapacitates Holt's comrades and leaves him in the middle of the road to be arrested by the FBI, after a long and intense chase.

Eventually, the Driver delivers Lily to the extraction point where she informs him that Dr. Phillips created her and three others, who are now gone. She is surprised to learn that the customer is Dr. Phillips, who takes maternal custody of her.

####Eternals (film)####
####Eve of Destruction (film)####
EVE VIII is a military android created to look and sound exactly like her creator, Dr. Eve Simmons. When the robot is damaged during a bank robbery, it accesses memories it was programmed with by her creator. The memories used, though, are dark and tragic ones.

The robot is also programmed as a killing machine if anyone tries to stop her mission. Colonel Jim McQuade is tasked with eliminating the unstoppable machine. With the help of Dr. Simmons, he tries to outthink the intelligent and emotional robotic doppelgänger.

####The Exigency####
At his place of work, Kyle Burton receives a promotion as two alien spaceships begin wreaking havoc on Earth. After managing to destroy one of the spaceships, he drives home and picks up his wife Melissa. The pair then chase the school bus carrying their two kids, Timmy and Becky, and have the children jump into their car. A resulting car accident knocks most of the family unconscious as a different, larger spaceship approaches and abducts Kyle and his family.

After gaining consciousness, Kyle is told by Nyklus, Assistant General in the Space Force Division, that the spaceship was sent by King Sargon, ruler of the planet Gallesha, to rescue and retrieve Kyle as a final attempt to help end a war with the neighboring planet of Anumbis, ruled by an alien tyrant named Diederick. Kyle reveals to his family that he is a retired human war hero from Gallesha, where he served as a commanding general. A curious Timmy visits Captain Keon and learns that they have traveled outside the Milky Way. Through the use of a warp drive, the crew travels across dozens of lightyears before arriving in the solar system containing Gallesha.

Kyle meets with Sargon and tells him that he does not want to participate in the war against Anumbis. Sargon responds by telling Kyle that Diederick wants to take over the Universe and could potentially target Earth. After talking with Diederick over a video call, Kyle agrees to visit a banquet hosted by Sargon to announce his decision to the public. During a train ride, Kyle tells Melissa that when he was a child, his family was murdered during a surprise attack from a nearby planet, leaving him and his brother, Nell, as the only survivors. After running away, a man named Mangular offered to give Kyle and Nell a place to hide until the battle was over and would later go on to raise them into disciplined, strong men. After becoming a soldier for Gallesha, and being promoted to commanding general, Kyle gained a mindset that without any wars, he would have no one to fight. As a result, he fought Diederick for apparently no reason to create tension between Gallesha and Anumbis, which eventually escalated into war.

In the present, Kyle meets with Nell and tells him that instead of fighting in the war against Anumbis, he wants to help them come up with a strategy. This initially disappoints Nell, who believes Kyle is the only one who can help end the war. At the banquet, Kyle restates his decision and is told that a spaceship will take him back to Earth in half an hour. Meanwhile, Timmy is given a toy that can produce "musical bubbles" by Vayana, Kyle's ex-lover. After taking the toy away, Kyle notices that it contains a tracking device. Before he can throw it away, several explosions detonate at the banquet, knocking him out for a few seconds. Diederick and his army arrive and capture Kyle's family in the process.

After sustaining multiple shot wounds, Kyle watches as Diederick's army deploys a four-armed alien cyborg. He manages to escape and is ordered to lead the cyborg towards Gallesha's army. After doing so, Kyle sees that the cyborg has managed to overpower and kill dozens of soldiers. Kyle battles the cyborg by throwing a grenade at it and shooting it several times. The cyborg overpowers him, but Kyle manages to destroy it with a second grenade. Soon after, Kyle visits and confronts Sargon about the recent attack, believing there to be an inside job. He later receives a video call from Diederick, who reassures him that his family is safe but that he will only see them again if Gallesha surrenders. As a result, Kyle decides to lead Gallesha's army into battle as commanding general.

####Expect No Mercy (film)####
####Face/Off####
FBI Special Agent Sean Archer survives an assassination attempt by homicidal sociopath Castor Troy, but the bullet penetrates Archer's chest and strikes his son Michael, accidentally killing the boy. Six years later, Archer's vendetta against Troy culminates in his team ambushing Troy, who is with his younger brother and accomplice Pollux, at a remote desert airstrip. Troy goads Archer with knowledge of a bomb located somewhere in Los Angeles set to go off in a few days, before being knocked into a coma before Archer can learn more. Pollux, in custody, affirms that the bomb is real but refuses to reveal its location.

In secret, Archer reluctantly undergoes a highly experimental face transplant procedure by Dr. Malcolm Walsh to take on Castor Troy's face, voice, and appearance. Archer-as-Troy is taken to the same high-security prison where Pollux is being held. He manages to convince Pollux that he is Troy, and gains information on the bomb's location. Troy unexpectedly awakens from his coma and discovers his face missing. He calls his gang, and they force Dr. Walsh to transplant Archer's face onto him. Troy then kills the only people who know of the transplant. At the prison, Archer-as-Troy prepares to tell Biondi of the location but is surprised when Troy-as-Archer appears. Troy-as-Archer gloats that no one knows of the transplant, and that he will take over Archer's life.

Pollux is freed when he willingly tells Troy-as-Archer of the bomb's location, and Troy-as-Archer disarms the bomb in a dramatic fashion. Troy-as-Archer earns admiration from the FBI office and becomes close to Archer's wife Eve and daughter Jamie, whom Archer had been neglecting while chasing down Troy. Back at the prison, Archer-as-Troy escapes after staging a riot and retreats to Troy's headquarters. He meets Sasha, the sister of Troy's primary drug kingpin, and her son Adam, who reminds him of Michael. Archer-as-Troy discovers that Adam is Troy's son. Troy-as-Archer learns of Archer-as-Troy's escape and hastily assembles a team to raid his headquarters.

The raid turns into a bloodbath and many FBI agents and several members of Troy's gang, including Pollux, are killed, while Archer, Sasha, and Adam are able to escape. Archer's supervisor, Director Victor Lazarro, blames Troy-as-Archer for the numerous slayings. Troy-as-Archer, furious over Pollux's death, kills Lazarro and makes it look like a heart attack. Troy-as-Archer is promoted to acting director. Archer-as-Troy finds safety for Sasha and Adam. Then he approaches Eve and convinces her to test Troy-as-Archer's blood to prove his identity. After testing the blood and being convinced of her husband's identity, Eve tells Archer that Troy will be vulnerable at Lazarro's funeral.

At the ceremony, Archer-as-Troy finds that Troy-as-Archer has anticipated his actions and taken Eve hostage. Sasha arrives, and a gunfight ensues; Sasha manages to save Eve after taking a bullet. Archer-as-Troy promises a dying Sasha that he will take care of Adam and raise him away from criminal life. In a fight between the rivals outside, Jamie shoots and injures Archer-as-Troy. Troy-as-Archer flees the church with Archer-as-Troy pursuing him. Troy-as-Archer briefly takes Jamie hostage, but she escapes by stabbing him with the butterfly knife that Troy-as-Archer had given her for self-defense. Troy-as-Archer reaches the docks and commandeers a speedboat, and Archer-as-Troy follows and commandeers one of his own.

A chase ensues, that ends when Archer-as-Troy forces Troy-as-Archer to the shore by collision. With the boats grounded, Archer-as-Troy bests Troy-as-Archer in a melee fight. Troy-as-Archer attempts to mutilate his (Archer's) face to taunt and distract Archer-as-Troy, but Archer-as-Troy instead gains the upper hand and kills Troy-as-Archer by impaling him with a spear gun, avenging the deaths of Michael and all of Troy's other victims. Backup agents arrive and address Archer-as-Troy as Archer, having been convinced by Eve of Archer's true identity. After the face transplant surgery is reversed, Archer returns home, where he adopts Adam into his family, keeping his promise to Sasha.

####Fantastic Four (2005 film)####
Dr. Reed Richards, along with his friend, Ben Grimm, convinces Dr. Victor Von Doom, CEO of Von Doom Industries, to allow him access to his space station to test the effects of exposure of clouds of cosmic energy on biological samples. Von Doom agrees, and recruits his chief genetics researcher (and Reed's ex-girlfriend) Susan Storm and her reckless brother Johnny Storm.

They arrive in space to study the cosmic clouds, but the clouds arrive ahead of schedule. Reed, Susan, and Johnny leave the shielded station to rescue Ben, out on a space-walk to place the samples, while Victor closes the shields behind them to keep himself protected. The storm breaks through the station and strikes the four. They return home but soon begin to develop strange powers. Reed is able to stretch like rubber, Susan can become invisible and create force fields, Johnny can engulf himself in fire, and Ben is transformed into a large, rock-based creature with superhuman strength and durability. Victor meanwhile faces a backlash from his stockholders due to the publicity from the failed mission.

On the Brooklyn Bridge, Ben accidentally causes a traffic pile-up while stopping a man from committing suicide. The four use their various powers to contain the damage and save lives. While the public cheer them for their efforts, Ben's fiancee arrives to silently split their engagement, unable to accept him for his condition. Reed vows to a heartbroken Ben to reverse the effects. The media dubs them "The Fantastic Four," and Victor exploits the news story to his stockholders, but they decide to pull out of Von Doom Industries. The four move into Reed's lab in the Baxter Building to study their abilities and work on finding a cure. Victor offers his support in their efforts, but blames Reed for the mission's failure.

Reed plans to construct a machine to re-create the storm and reverse their conditions. However, Johnny refuses to cooperate, insisting they should just embrace that their powers. Meanwhile, Victor, having also been affected by the storm due to the shields' malfunctioning, begins mutating into organic metal and is able to produce electricity, and begins plotting to use his new powers to take his revenge.

Victor drives a wedge between Ben and Reed, resulting in Ben walking out in rage. This motivates Reed to attempt the machine on himself, but he cannot generate enough power to push the storm to critical mass. Victor hears this, and brings Ben to the lab. Ben is placed in the machine and Doom uses his abilities to produce the electricity needed to power it, turning Ben back to normal and accelerating Doom's condition, causing much of his body to turn to metal. Victor knocks Ben unconscious and kidnaps Reed.

Victor, now calling himself "Doom," tortures Reed using a super-cooling unit and fires a heat-seeking missile at the Baxter Building to kill Johnny. He flies through the city to evade it, lighting a garbage barge on fire to trick it. Sue rushes to free Reed and battles Doom but is outmatched. Ben arrives to help, transformed into The Thing again by reusing the machine. The battle spills into the streets, and the four assemble to battle Doom. Johnny and Susan combine their powers to wrap Doom in an inferno of intense heat, and Ben and Reed douse him with cold water, inducing thermal shock and freezing Doom in place.

In an epilogue, Ben tells Reed to forget about his experiment with the machine, as he has accepted his condition through his relationship with Alicia Masters, a blind artist. The team decide to embrace their roles as superheroes, and Reed proposes to Sue. Meanwhile, a frozen Doom is transported back to his homeland of Latveria.

####Fantastic Four (2015 film)####

Childhood friends Reed Richards and Ben Grimm have worked together on a prototype teleporter since youth, eventually attracting the attention of Professor Franklin Storm, director of the Baxter Foundation, a government-sponsored research institute for young prodigies. Reed is recruited to join them and aid Storm's children, scientist Sue Storm and engineer Johnny Storm, into completing a "Quantum Gate" designed by Storm's protégé Victor Von Doom.

The experiment is successful, and the facility's supervisor, Dr. Allen, plans to send a group from NASA to venture into a parallel dimension known as "Planet Zero". Disappointed at being denied the chance to join the expedition, Reed, Johnny and Victor along with Ben use the Quantum Gate to embark on an unsanctioned voyage to Planet Zero, which they learn is a world filled with otherworldly substances. Victor attempts to touch the green lava-like substance, causing the ground they are standing on to erupt. Reed, Johnny and Ben return to their shuttle just as Sue brings them back to Earth and Victor is seemingly killed after he falls into the collapsing landscape. The Quantum Gate explodes, altering Reed, Sue, Johnny and Ben on a genetic level and granting them superhuman abilities beyond their control: Reed can stretch like rubber, Sue can become invisible and generate force fields, Johnny can engulf his entire body in fire and fly, and Ben acquires a rock-like hide which gives him superhuman strength and durability. They are then placed in government custody to be studied and have their abilities tested. Blaming himself for the accident, Reed escapes from the facility and tries to find a cure for their changes.

One year later in 2015, Reed is now a fugitive and has built a suit that helps him control his ability. Hiding in Central America, he is eventually found by the United States military with Sue's help and captured by Ben, who has become a military asset along with Johnny and Sue. Johnny and Sue have been outfitted with specialized suits designed to help them control their abilities. Reed is brought to Area 57, where Dr. Allen conscripts him into rebuilding the Quantum Gate in exchange for giving Reed the resources to find a cure. Arriving in Planet Zero, Dr. Allen's explorers find Victor, who has been fused to his spacesuit and now possesses telekinetic abilities, and bring him back to Earth. Believing that humans need to be destroyed so he can rebuild Earth in his image, Victor kills the scientists and soldiers in the base, including Dr. Allen and Professor Storm, and returns to Planet Zero using the Quantum Gate, with Ben, Johnny, Reed and Sue in pursuit.

Now dubbing himself "Doom", Victor activates a portal on Planet Zero using the Quantum Gate and begins consuming the landscape of the Earth using a structure he created from the rock formations in Planet Zero. He is confronted by the four and, after a short battle, Ben punches Doom into the portal's energy beam, disintegrating him while Johnny closes the portal. Returning to Earth, the group is rewarded by the US military for their heroics by being given a new base of operations known as "Central City" to study their abilities without government interference. They decide to use their powers to help people and adopt the mantle of the "Fantastic Four".

####The Fantastic Four (unreleased film)####
Reed Richards and Victor Von Doom are college friends who use the opportunity of a passing comet to try an experiment. It goes wrong, leaving Victor believed dead. Susan and Johnny Storm are two children living with their mother, who has a boarding house where Reed lives. Ben Grimm is a family friend and a college buddy of Reed's.

Ten years later, Reed, Susan, Johnny and Ben participate in a mission in an experimental spacecraft of Reed's as the same comet passes Earth. Unbeknownst to them, a crucial diamond component designed to protect them from the comet's cosmic rays, has been replaced with an imitation by a criminal named The Jeweler, leaving them exposed to the radiation.

After crash-landing on Earth they discover that the cosmic rays have given them special powers: Reed's bodily structure has become elastic, Susan can become invisible, Johnny can generate fire on demand and Ben has transformed into a creature with stone-like skin.

They are later captured by men posing as Marines and are taken to Victor who has become the villainous monarch Dr. Doom. They escape and meet at the Baxter Building, trying to decide how to move forward with their superpowers. An angry Ben leaves them to go out on his own, feeling he has become a freak. He is found by homeless men and joins them in the lair of the Jeweler.

The Jeweler has his henchmen kidnap blind artist Alicia Masters whom he plans to force into being his bride, intending to use the stolen diamond as his wedding gift to her. Doom, who has his own plans for the diamond, sends his henchmen to The Jeweler to make a deal for it but to no avail. Doom seizes the diamond himself, and a gun battle breaks out between his men and The Jeweler's. When Ben enters the fray, Doom takes Alicia hostage. When Ben threatens to 'clobber' Doom, Alicia begs him not to risk it and confesses her love for him. Her confession changes Ben back to human form and he flees into the city streets. Frustrated at his helplessness he reverts to the Thing.

When Ben returns to his friends, Reed has learned that Doom is actually Victor. Doom contacts them and threatens to use the diamond to power a laser cannon that will destroy New York City unless they surrender to him. Realizing they are the only ones who can stop him, they don costumes and travel to Doom's castle where they confront waves of his military forces. As Reed battles him, Doom manages to fire his laser but is knocked off a balcony wall. As he clings to the wall Reed tries to rescue him but Doom's gauntlet comes loose and he falls into the fog below. His gauntlet (still on the balcony) starts to move on its own. Meanwhile, Johnny has become the Human Torch and flies off to intercept the laser's shot, deflecting away from the city and into outer space. Ben frees Alicia and finally introduces himself to her. She feels the rocky surface of his face but is not fazed by his altered appearance. The Four dedicate themselves to fighting evil and Reed and Susan marry.

####Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer####
A mysterious, meteor-like object enters Earth's atmosphere, tracing cosmic energy causing fluxes in weather and power outages, and creating mysterious craters. The government approaches Reed Richards to track the movements of the object. Reed and Susan Storm prepare for their wedding amidst huge media hush and publicity. As the wedding begins, Reed's systems detect the phenomenon approaching New York City.

Johnny Storm pursues the object, finding that it is a silver humanoid on a flying surf board. He confronts the Surfer, but is overpowered. Later, when Susan tries to check Johnny after becoming weakened, their powers switch; when they touch again their powers revert. Reed's examination of Johnny reveals that exposure to the Surfer has set Johnny's molecular structure in passive flux, allowing him to switch powers with his teammates through physical contact.

Tracing the cosmic energy of the Surfer, Reed discovers that a series of planets the Surfer visited previously had all been destroyed. Reed determines that the next crater will appear in London, and the team travels there. They arrive too late to stop the crater, and the Thames drains into it. This also damages the London Eye, but the team manage to save it from collapsing.

The military has the Four reluctantly work with Victor Von Doom, having been freed from his statue-like state from the Surfer's energy passing over Latveria, and his body healed during an encounter with the Surfer in the Russell Glacier. Deducing that the Surfer's board is the source of his power, Reed develops a pulse generator that will separate him from it. In the Black Forest, Susan is confronted by the Surfer. The military opens fire on the Surfer, which distracts him and allows the four to fire the pulse, separating the Surfer from his board.

The military imprisons the Surfer in Siberia, while they torture him for information. The four have Susan use her power to privately speak to him. She learns he is serving Galactus, a cosmic entity which feeds on life-bearing planets to survive. His service to Galactus is what prevents his world from being destroyed, and that the Surfer's board is a homing beacon leading Galactus to Earth.

Doom steals the board using a wrist-pad device he created in secret to gain control of the board and its powers, and escapes to China. The Fantastic Four rescue the Surfer, and pursue Doom in the Fantasticar, confronting him in Shanghai. With the Surfer powerless, Johnny absorbs the combined powers of the team to battle Doom, disabling Doom's device, while Ben Grimm uses a nearby crane to knock Doom into the harbor.

Galactus has already arrived, and the Surfer regains the control of his board, flying into Galactus with help from Johnny. The conflict results in a massive blast of energy, engulfing Galactus in a cosmic rift, seemingly destroying them both. Johnny's second exposure to the Surfer heals him, and he can no longer switch his powers with his teammates.

Shortly after the events in Shanghai, Reed and Susan get married in Japan, only to be interrupted yet again by an alert that Venice is sinking into the sea; to Reed's delight, Sue has the wedding finish quickly before they race off to save the city.

In a mid-credits scene, the seemingly lifeless Silver Surfer floats through space, until his eyes open and his board races back to him.

####Fantastic Voyage####
The United States and the Soviet Union have both developed technology that can miniaturize matter by shrinking individual atoms, but only for one hour.

A scientist. Dr. Jan Benes, working behind the Iron Curtain, has figured out how to make the process work indefinitely. With the help of American intelligence agents, including agent Charles Grant, he escapes to the West and arrives in New York City, but an attempted assassination leaves him comatose with a blood clot in his brain that no surgery can remove from the outside.

To save his life, Grant, Navy pilot Captain Bill Owens, medical chief and circulatory specialist Dr. Michaels, surgeon Dr. Peter Duval, and his assistant Cora Peterson are placed aboard a Navy ichthyology submarine at the Combined Miniature Deterrent Forces facilities. The submarine, named "Proteus", is then miniaturized to "about the size of a microbe", and injected into Benes' body. The team has 60 minutes to get to and remove the clot; after this, "Proteus" and its crew will begin reverting to their normal size, become vulnerable to Benes's immune system, and kill Benes.

The crew faces many obstacles during the mission. An undetected arteriovenous fistula forces them to detour through the heart, where cardiac arrest must be induced to, at best, reduce turbulence that would be strong enough to destroy "Proteus". As the crew faces an unexplained loss of oxygen and must replenish their supply in the lungs, Grant finds the surgical laser needed to destroy the clot was damaged from the turbulence in the heart, as it was not fastened down as it had been before: this and his safety line snapping loose while the crew was refilling their air supply has Grant begin to suspect a saboteur is on the mission. The crew must cannibalize their wireless radio to repair the laser, cutting off all communication and guidance from the outside, although because the submarine is nuclear-powered, surgeons and technicians outside Benes's body are still able to track their movements via a radioactive tracer, allowing General Alan Carter and Colonel Donald Reid, the officers in charge of CMDF, to figure out the crew's strategies as they make their way through the body. The crew is then forced to pass through the inner ear, requiring all outside personnel to make no noise to prevent destructive shocks, but while the crew is removing reticular fibers clogging the submarine's vents and making the engines overheat, a fallen surgical tool causes the crew to be thrown about and Peterson is nearly killed by antibodies, but they are able to reboard the submarine in time. By the time they finally reach the clot, the crew has only six minutes remaining to operate and then exit the body.

Before the mission, Grant had been briefed that Duval was the prime suspect as a potential surgical assassin, but as the mission progresses, he instead begins to suspect Michaels. During the surgery, Dr. Michaels knocks out Owens and takes control of "Proteus" while the rest of the crew is outside for the operation. As Duval finishes removing the clot with the laser, Michaels tries to crash the submarine into the same area of Benes' brain to kill him. Grant fires the laser at the ship, causing it to veer away and crash, and Michaels to get trapped in the wreckage with the controls pinning him to the seat, which attracts the attention of white blood cells. While Grant saves Owens from the "Proteus", Michaels is killed when a white blood cell consumes the ship. The remaining crew quickly swim to one of Benes' eyes and escape through a tear duct seconds before returning to normal size.

####Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within####
In 2065, Earth is infested by alien life forms known as Phantoms. By physical contact Phantoms consume the Gaia spirit of living beings, killing them instantly, although minor contact may only result in an infection. The surviving humans live in "barrier cities" protected by energy shields that prevent Phantoms from entering, and are engaged in an ongoing struggle to free the planet. After being infected by a Phantom during one of her experiments, scientist Dr. Aki Ross (Ming-Na Wen) and her mentor, Dr. Sid (Donald Sutherland) discover a means of defeating the Phantoms by gathering eight spirits: unique energy patterns contained by various lifeforms. When joined, the resulting energy wave can negate the Phantoms. Aki searches for the sixth spirit in the ruins of New York City when she is cornered by Phantoms but rescued by Captain Gray Edwards (Alec Baldwin) and his squad Deep Eyes, consisting of Master Sergeant Ryan Whittaker (Ving Rhames), Neil Fleming (Steve Buscemi) and Corporal Jane Proudfoot (Peri Gilpin). It is revealed that Gray was once romantically involved with Aki.

Returning to her barrier city, Aki joins Sid and appears before the leadership council along with General Douglas Hein (James Woods). Hein is determined to use the Zeus cannon, a powerful weapon aboard a space station, to destroy the Phantoms, though Sid is concerned the cannon will damage Earth's Gaia (a spirit representing its ecosystem). Aki delays the use of the cannon by revealing that she has been infected and the collected spirits are keeping her infection stable, convincing the council that there may be another way to defeat the Phantoms. However, this revelation leads Hein to incorrectly conclude that she is being controlled by the Phantoms. Aki and the Deep Eyes squad succeed in finding the seventh spirit as Aki's infection begins to worsen and she slips into unconsciousness. Her dream reveals to her that the Phantoms are the spirits of dead aliens brought to Earth on a fragment of their destroyed planet. Sid uses the seventh spirit to bring Aki's infection back under control, reviving her.

To scare the council into giving him clearance to fire the Zeus cannon, Hein lowers part of the barrier shield protecting the city. Though Hein intended that only a few Phantoms enter, his plan goes awry and legions of Phantoms invade the entire city. Aki, Sid and the Deep Eyes attempt to reach Aki's spaceship, their means of escape, but Ryan, Neil and Jane are killed by Phantoms. Hein escapes and boards the Zeus cannon's space station, where he finally receives authorization to fire the cannon.

Sid finds the eighth spirit at the crater site of the alien asteroid's impact on Earth at the Caspian Mountains. He lowers a shielded vehicle, with Aki and Gray aboard, into the crater to locate the final spirit. Just before they can reach it, Hein fires the Zeus cannon into the crater, not only destroying the eighth spirit but also revealing the Phantom Gaia. Aki has a vision of the Phantom home planet, where she is able to receive the eighth spirit from the alien particles in herself. When Aki awakens, she and Gray combine it with the other seven. Hein continues to fire the Zeus cannon despite overheating warnings and unintentionally destroys the cannon and himself. Gray sacrifices himself as a medium needed to physically transmit the completed spirit into the alien Gaia. The Earth's Gaia is returned to normal as the Phantoms ascend into space, finally at peace. Aki is pulled from the crater holding Gray's body, and is seen looking into the newly liberated world.


####Fire Twister####

As part of an eco group, Scott, an ex-firefighter, Carla, a climate specialist, Barbie and Jason go to hang up an anti-oil advertisement banner on a large storage tank on top of a hill inside a Synco compound. They find a bomb on the tank, planted by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and run away as it explodes. The explosion creates a fire twister which passes down to the town below causing a vast amount of destruction.

Two CIA agents start shooting at Scott and his companions; they run and manage to hide behind some trees. They find Anthony, a chief engineer at Synco, who confesses they have been making a new hydrogen fuel (MT-11), which was stored in the tank that exploded. He says this fuel burns for a long time and that the twister will keep getting bigger.

Scott's group and Anthony follow the twister in their car, into the town. They find the twister coming toward them, and jump out of their car as it is swept into the twister. The twister destroys a house and continues through the town. Scott and his group survive unhurt, but many other people have been injured. Scott rescues a woman from a tree; she then lets them borrow her car. The CIA agents re-appear, shooting at Scott's group as they drive off. Anthony surmises that the twister is attracted to heat. Scott phones a colleague from the fire service and gives him the information on the twister.

Mr. Garber, the Synco CEO, is interviewed by the press and blames the twister on Scott and Carla. A Synco employee speaks out on the news saying the fuel was only moved a couple of days ago, and that this tank wasn't rated to safely hold the MT-11 fuel. Garber speaks to V, one of the CIA agents, on the phone, instructing her to kill Scott.

The twister hits Los Angeles destroying many buildings and incinerating people alive. Scott follows the twister into the city. They see a car accident and get out to help, but it turns out to be a trap set by the CIA agents who take Scott and his group as hostages. Jason admits that the CEO of Synco paid him to get Scott to put the anti-oil banner on the tank so they could all be framed for the explosion. Jason grabs a gun off one of the CIA agents and buys time for Scott and his group to escape; he is then, killed by the agents. Anthony and Scott realize that Garber may have been placed at Synco by a rival company to sabotage the business.

Anthony hooks up some fuel canisters to the top of a car, and drives toward the twister, planning to destroy it. He sets off an explosion at the base of the twister, killing himself and making the twister bigger. Scott realizes that a large explosion would destroy the twister, so he works out a plan to attract the twister into an open area and set off a large explosion using C4 and a fire engine full of fuel. They turn the fire hoses into flamethrowers, creating heat to attract the twister.

A reporter sneaks into the Synco compound and sees the staff clearing everything out. She learns that Garber is behind the explosion and creation of the fire twister, and that he has been paid a much money to do it. Garber finds the reporter in his office, and kills her with a golf club.

Scott drives the fire engine toward the twister; Carla and Barbie use the flamethrowers to attract the twister toward them. They lure the twister to the Synco compound. The CIA agents defend the compound and shoot at Scott, but he drives straight past them into the compound, and the agents are killed by the following twister. Garber gets a helicopter so he can escape, however the helicopter is sucked into the twister before it can pick him up. Scott sets up the C4 and jumps out of the fire engine, and it explodes at the base of the twister, destroying it. An axe flies out of the explosion, killing Garber.

####Firehead####
In 1988, a telekinetic Soviet agent known as "Firehead" (Brett Porter) defects to the west after refusing to use his powers against Estonian protesters. Two years later, he begins blowing up American munitions factories for unknown reasons. An NIH chemist (Chris Lemmon) and a government assassin (Gretchen Becker) are ordered to track him down. Meanwhile, a secret society led by Colonel Vaughn (Christopher Plummer) prepares to use Firehead's activities as a pretext for a coup d'état.

####The First Purge####
####Fist of the North Star (1995 film)####
In the aftermath of World War III, the world has plunged into anarchy and chaos. Water is scarce and what is left of the human race scrounges for survival. Two opposing martial arts schools, North Star and Southern Cross, both devoted to bringing order to the world, were previously thrown into disarray after Southern Cross adept Shin turned against his masters and summarily executed North Star master Ryuken, leaving his son Kenshiro as the sole heir to the North Star. Shin then sought Kenshiro himself, defeated him and left him for dead after carving his chest with seven scars in the shape of the Big Dipper. Shin also abducted Kenshiro's fiancee and their shared love interest Julia, segregating her in his tower. Since then, Shin rules the land with an iron fist through a militia called the Crossmen, led by Jackal, a ruthless henchman whose bulging head is held in leather bandages after Kenshiro disfigured him in an earlier fight.

Back in the current time, Kenshiro, who survived Shin's aggression, wanders the wasteland aimlessly. After killing a gang led by bandit Zeed, who attacked the homestead that had given him shelter for the night, Kenshiro continues on towards the town of Paradise Valley, home to one of the few remaining sources of pure water. There, he meets orphan siblings Bat and Lynn. After using a pressure point technique to restore Lynn's sight, which she lost after watching her parents murdered by Crossmen, Kenshiro departs, ignoring Lynn's plea to remain and protect them. Bat follows Kenshiro to talk him into joining the organized resistance against the Crossmen's incursions, to no avail.

The Crossmen raid Paradise Valley and occupy it, commandeering the well. Jackal orders Lynn's execution for sedition, but halts it after she threateningly mentions Kenshiro, taking her prisoner instead to extort Kenshiro's whereabouts. As Lynn's screams from afar ring inside Kenshiro's head, Kenshiro turns back: he and Bat infiltrate the occupied town and free Lynn, but Bat is mortally wounded in a fight against Jackal. Kenshiro spares Jackal and sends him back to Shin to announce his arrival.

By Shin's order, Jackal takes Julia to the tower's basement to hide her from Kenshiro. There, he engages in a cat-and-mouse game in an attempt to rape and kill Julia. Kenshiro breaks into Shin's tower and confronts him in the throne room. As Kenshiro gains the upper hand in the ensuing showdown, Shin lies about Julia's fate and takes advantage of Kenshiro's shock to overpower him. However, after noticing a bud that has sprouted from a seed he had given Julia long before, Kenshiro regains hope and defeats Shin, killing him. After freeing herself from Jackal by removing his bandages and causing his head to swell and explode, Julia rejoins Kenshiro. The surviving Crossmen bow to Kenshiro and Julia in deference.

####The Flash (film)####
####Flash Gordon (film)####
To relieve his boredom, Emperor Ming the Merciless of the planet Mongo begins Earth's destruction by remotely causing natural disasters. On Earth, football star Gregory "Flash" Gordon boards a small plane and meets travel agent Dale Arden. Mid-flight, the cockpit is hit by a meteor and the pilots die. Flash takes control and manages to crash land into a greenhouse owned by Dr. Hans Zarkov. Zarkov believes that the disasters are being caused by extraterrestrials pushing the Moon towards Earth. He has secretly constructed a spacecraft to investigate the attacks. Unable to do it alone, Zarkov lures Flash and Dale aboard. He flies with them to Mongo, where they are captured by Ming's troops.

After looking at the trio, Ming is smitten with Dale and orders Flash executed. At the last minute, Ming's daughter, Princess Aura, saves Flash, with whom she fell in love at first sight. While they escape, Zarkov is brainwashed by Klytus, the head of the secret police. Aura and Flash flee to Arboria, kingdom of Prince Barin. Locked in Ming's bedchamber, Dale escapes, and Zarkov is sent to intercept her. However, Zarkov reveals he resisted the brainwashing, and escapes Mingo City with Dale. They are quickly captured by Prince Vultan's hawkmen and taken to Sky City.

Aura and Flash arrive at Arboria. Aura asks the Prince to keep Flash safe. A distrustful Barin, in love with Aura, agrees not to kill Flash, but then forces him to play a deadly game of chance. With the odds stacked against him, Flash uses this opportunity to escape. Barin follows him, and they are both captured by the hawkmen.

Aura returns and is taken prisoner and tortured by Klytus and General Kala for her treason. Meanwhile, Ming prepares his wedding to Dale. Flash and Barin are taken to Sky City, where Flash and Dale are briefly reunited. Flash is forced to fight Barin in a death match. However, Flash instead saves Barin's life, causing Barin to join him. Klytus arrives, and Flash and Barin kill him. Knowing this will bring retribution, Vultan and the hawkmen evacuate, leaving Barin, Flash, Dale and Zarkov behind. Ming's ship arrives and captures Barin, Zarkov and Dale. Impressed with Flash, Ming offers him lordship over Earth in exchange for loyalty. Flash refuses and Ming gives the order to destroy Vultan's kingdom along with Flash. Finding a rocket cycle, Flash escapes before Sky City is destroyed.

Flash contacts Vultan, and they plot an attack on Mingo City. To defend the city, General Kala dispatches the war rocket "Ajax", which is quickly seized by the hawkmen. Meanwhile, Princess Aura overpowers her guard and frees Barin and Zarkov from the execution chamber. Flash and the hawkmen attack Mingo City in "Ajax" and Kala activates the defenses as Ming's and Dale's wedding begins. Mingo City's lightning field can only be penetrated by flying "Ajax" into it at a suicidal speed. Flash volunteers to stay at the helm to ensure success and enable the hawkmen to invade the city.

Barin and Zarkov enter the control room and confront Kala. In the ensuing fight, Barin shoots and kills her.

After fighting through Ming's guards, Barin also manages to deactivate the lightning field before "Ajax" hits it. Flash flies the rocket ship into the city's wedding hall and impales Ming. Flash offers to spare his life if he stops the attack on Earth. Ming refuses and attempts to use his power ring on Flash, but it falters and nothing happens. He then aims the ring at himself and is seemingly vaporized by its remaining power. A victory celebration ensues.

Barin and Aura become the new leaders in Ming's place. Barin names Vultan the general of their armies. Flash, Dale and Zarkov discuss returning to Earth. Zarkov says he does not know how they will get back, but they will try.

Meanwhile, Ming's ring is picked up by an unseen person. Ming's evil laugh is heard closely after.

####Flash Gordon (serial)####
####Flash Gordon Conquers the Universe####
A deadly plague is ravaging the Earth, known as the Purple Death because of a purple spot left on victims' foreheads. Flash Gordon learns that Ming the Merciless is behind the plague when he spots one of Ming's spaceships spreading the "Death Dust" in the Earth's atmosphere.

Flash Gordon, along with Dr. Alexis Zarkov and Dale Arden, return to the planet Mongo to find a possible cure, first seeking the assistance of their old friend Prince Barin. The trio continues to battle Ming and his allies, led by henchman Captain Torch, who has been charged with stopping the Earthlings by any means.

The three eventually find an antidote, called Polarite, in Mongo's remote northern Kingdom of Frigia. They must now get the cure back to Earth in sufficient quantities to stop the ravaging plague. Ming sends in an army of robot bombs, and he succeeds in capturing Zarkov and Dale. After their capture, Flash must return to Earth to distribute the antidote by rocketship, the same way the original Death Dust was first spread.

Upon his return to Mongo, Flash is able to free Zarkov and Dale. They continue their struggles against Ming, Captain Torch, and his men through a series of close encounters, deadly escapes, and rescues, all the while continuing to thwart Ming and his allies.

Ming and his minions are eventually locked away by one of his men in the high control tower of his castle. Unknown to them, Flash is piloting a rocketship that is speeding directly toward that tower. He parachutes away just in the nick of time, and in a daring aerial maneuver, Flash is successful in boarding Barrin's nearby rocketship, which has Dale and Zarkov aboard. Flash's  unmanned spaceship is actually a flying bomb, having been loaded with highly volatile Solarite. Its rapid forward momentum carries it directly into the castle's control tower, where the large explosion that follows ends Ming's tyrannical reign forever. Prince Barin soon takes his rightful place as the peaceful ruler of Mongo.

Ming's last words to Flash were, "I am the universe!" Zarkov observes that with Ming's death, "Flash Gordon has conquered the universe".

####Flash Gordon's Trip to Mars####
When a mysterious beam of light starts disrupting and destroying the Earth's atmosphere, Flash Gordon (Buster Crabbe), Dr. Zarkov (Frank Shannon), and Dale Arden (Jean Rogers) - accidentally accompanied by wisecracking reporter Happy Hapgood (Donald Kerr) - swing into action in Zarkov's rocketship, believing that it could be coming from the planet Mongo. Once in space, however, they discover that the ray is originating from Mars.

Journeying to the fourth planet, they discover that their old enemy from Mongo, Ming the Merciless (Charles B. Middleton), whom they had believed dead, is still alive, and has formed an alliance with Azura (Beatrice Roberts), the Witch Queen of Mars. From Azura's planet, and under her protection, he is operating a gigantic Nitron ray that is destroying Earth's atmosphere. Azura's powers include the ability to transmute people into figures of living clay, condemned to live in darkened caves, and she is hated and feared by most of the population. Conversely, the Clay People, led by their King (C. Montague Shaw), know the secret of how to eliminate Azura's power, but lack the means of escaping the caves to which their ruined bodies restrict them,  to battle her.

Gordon and his party seem to hold the answer to their problem, except that the Clay People do not trust them at first, and end up holding Dale Arden hostage. Ultimately, the Earth visitors and the Clay People become allies in the tandem quest to defeat Azura and stop Ming from destroying the Earth. Flash, Dale, Zarkov, and Hapgood do battle against Azura's magic and her Martian space force, Ming's super-scientific weaponry, the treacherous Forest People, and other dangers on the Red Planet. Finally, they win by the classic strategy of divide-and-conquer, showing Azura that Ming has been plotting behind her back to take power from her.

Azura's alliance with Ming is broken, at the cost of the Queen's own life, but the Clay People are freed from their curse. The evil emperor of Mongo, his Nitron ray destroyed and his escape cut off on all sides by the now hostile Martian forces, is seemingly vanquished by the accidental result of his own machinations and treachery.

####Forbidden Planet####

In the 23rd century, after more than a year's journey, the United Planets starship "C-57D" arrives at the distant planet Altair IV to determine the fate of an expedition sent there 20 years before. Dr. Edward Morbius, one of the original expedition's scientists, warns the ship not to land for safety reasons, but Commander John J. Adams ignores Morbius' warning.

Adams and Lieutenants Jerry Farman and "Doc" Ostrow are met by Robby the Robot, who transports them to Morbius' residence. Morbius describes how all other members of their expedition had been killed one-by-one, by an unseen "planetary force" and how their ship was vaporized as the last survivors tried to lift off. Only Morbius, his wife (who later died of natural causes), and their daughter Altaira were somehow immune. Morbius offers to help the starship return home, but Adams says he must receive further instructions from Earth.

thu
The next day, Adams finds Farman kissing Altaira. Furious, he dresses down Farman and criticizes Altaira for being naive and wearing revealing clothes that make her too attractive. That night, an invisible intruder sabotages equipment aboard the starship. The next morning, Adams and Ostrow go to Morbius’ residence to discuss the intrusion. While waiting, Adams happens upon Altaira swimming. After she dons a new, less revealing dress, Adams apologizes for his behavior toward her, and they kiss. They are suddenly attacked by Altaira's pet tiger, and Adams is forced to disintegrate it with his blaster.

Morbius appears and tells Adams and Ostrow that he has been studying artifacts of the Krell, a highly advanced race that perished overnight 200,000 years before. One such device enhances the intellect, which Morbius had used. He barely survived, but his intellectual capacity had doubled. Another is a vast convert|20|mi|km square underground machine, still functioning, powered by 9,200 thermonuclear reactors, operating "in tandem". Adams tells Morbius he must share these discoveries with Earth. Morbius refuses, saying "humanity is not yet ready to receive such limitless power".

Adams erects a force field fence around the starship, but the intruder easily passes through and murders Chief Engineer Quinn. Morbius warns Adams of his premonition of further deadly attacks. That night, the invisible intruder returns, outlined by the force field energy as the ship's multiple blasters fire at it, with no effect. The thing kills Farman and two other crewmen. When Morbius is awakened by Altaira's screams, the creature suddenly vanishes.

Adams tries to persuade Altaira to leave. Ostrow sneaks away and uses the Krell intellect enhancer and is fatally injured. Before dying, he informs Adams that the Krell machine can create anything by mere thought, but the Krell forgot one thing: "monsters from the id". The machine gave the Krell’s subconscious desires free rein with unlimited power, causing their extinction. Adams states that Morbius's enhanced subconscious had the machine create the thing that both killed the original expedition members and attacked his crewmen. Morbius refuses to believe him.

Altaira tells Morbius she is leaving with Adams. Robby detects the creature approaching from the southwest. Morbius commands Robby to kill it, but the robot knows it is Morbius and shuts down. Adams, Altaira, and Morbius hide in the Krell lab, but the creature melts its way through the thick doors. Morbius accepts the truth, confronts and disowns his other self, and the Id monster vanishes, leaving Morbius fatally injured. Before he dies, he has Adams activate a planetary self-destruct system, warning them they must be far away in deep space. At a safe distance, Adams, Altaira, Robby, and the surviving crew watch the obliteration of Altair IV. Adams reassures Altaira that in about a million years, the human race will become like the Krell, and these events will remind them they are, after all, not God. They embrace as "C-57D" heads back to Earth.

####The Forever Purge####
In 2048, eight years after Charlene Roan's presidential election, the New Founding Fathers of America (NFFA) regain control of the U.S. government and have re-instituted the annual Purge with its original rules. Racial supremacy and nativism have surged nationwide following their re-election, and many outside the ruling party are concerned that the upcoming Purge will inflict more damage on the country than the NFFA realizes. Married migrant couple Juan and Adela illegally cross the border into Texas to escape from a Mexican drug cartel and build a new life, with Juan working as a farmhand on the Tucker family ranch while Adela begins working near Austin.

Ten months later, on the eve of the next annual Purge in 2049, Juan and Adela join a migrant community behind a walled sanctuary with armed security to protect them. As the Purge begins, Adela witnesses a nationalist Purger group, who declare themselves to be a "Purge Purification Force" (PPF) that intend to kill those people that they consider non-American. The group passes by without hostility, and the migrant community survives the Purge with no incidents. Come morning, Juan and Adela return to their jobs, but both notice that many of their co-workers did not report to work. Shortly after, Adela is attacked by two Purgers but she is rescued by her boss Darius before both are arrested by police for killing their attackers.

Meanwhile, Juan and fellow migrant co-worker T.T. discover that the Tucker family has been taken hostage by their farmhands, who reveal themselves as Purgers intending to take the ranch for themselves. Ranch owner Caleb Tucker sacrifices himself and distracts the Purgers long enough for Juan and T.T. to rescue his son Dylan, Dylan's pregnant wife Cassie, and his sister Harper, who offer them a ride to search for Adela. Nationwide news struggles to understand why civilians continue to celebrate the Purge after its ending. The group rescue Adela and Darius after the police van carrying them is ambushed by more Purgers. Darius stays behind to search for his family while the others escape from a burning Austin. At a gas station, they hear news reports about chaos, murder, and destruction in all fifty American states, with local emergency services overwhelmed, in an event described as the "Forever Purge". To protect non-Purger civilians, Canada and Mexico have opened their borders for the next six hours, following which the borders will close and entry would be denied. The group decide to escape across the Mexican border through El Paso.

By the time the group arrives in a chaotic El Paso, the NFFA has condemned the Forever Purge after their politicians and representatives are targeted, and invokes martial law across the United States in an effort to contain the violence. Fighting through El Paso, Adela and Cassie are split from the group by military forces while Juan, T.T., Dylan, and Harper are captured by the PPF, with their leader (referred to as "Alpha") offering Dylan and Harper a chance to live if they kill T.T. and Juan. When they refuse, the Purgers murder T.T. before the military intervenes, allowing the group to escape. However, the military is forced to withdraw when their base is destroyed by more Purgers. In response, the Canadian and Mexican governments announce the early closure of their borders, leaving those who tried to cross them vulnerable to the Purgers.

Downtown, Adela protects Cassie from other Purgers, revealing that she and Juan had once been members of a self-defense group who trained them to fight against Mexican drug cartels before they arrived to the United States. The survivors all reunite at a hidden safe-house run by a nearby Native American tribe. Their leader offers to transport everyone across the border as refugees. With the PPF in pursuit, Juan, Adela, and Dylan remain behind with other survivors to make time for the other refugees to escape. Both groups engage in a gunfight until their ammo runs out and draw them in for a close fight with hand weapons. In the ensuing battle, the Purgers are killed and Alpha takes Adela hostage. However, Juan and Dylan work together to subdue and kill Alpha, saving Adela. The trio rejoin the others in a refugee camp on the other side of the Mexican border where Dylan finds Harper and Cassie. The latter reveals that she had given birth during their time apart. After thanking each other for their help in surviving, Dylan introduces Juan and Adela to his infant daughter.

With the entire country in flames, the NFFA is blamed and disbanded for the prolonged violence. News reports indicate that more than two million Americans had crossed the Canadian and Mexican borders as refugees while others had rallied to fight back against the Purgers.

####Fortress (1992 film)####
####Frankenstein's Army####
####Free Guy####
####Freejack####
In 2009, the super-wealthy achieve immortality by hiring "bonejackers", mercenaries equipped with time travel devices, to snatch people from the past, just prior to the moment of their deaths, for use as substitute bodies. Those who escape are known as "freejacks" and are considered less than human under the law. In this dystopian future, most people suffer from poor physical health as a result of rampant drug use and environmental pollution, making them unattractive as replacement bodies.

Alex Furlong is a Formula One racer who is about to die in a spectacular 1991 crash when a time machine snatches him from the cockpit and into 21st century New York City, now a futuristic dystopia populated by scavengers and killers. When Furlong's captors are ambushed by a hit squad, Furlong escapes from Victor Vacendak, a hardened mercenary who has snatched him on behalf of the powerful McCandless Corporation. Alex's former fiancée Julie Redlund is now an executive at McCandless, handling high-stakes mineral negotiations with a rival Japanese firm.

Alex spends much time escaping the clutches of Victor, a ruthless pursuer who nevertheless lives by a code of honor and rekindling his relationship with Julie. Ian McCandless, Julie's boss, is revealed to have died and seeks to install his backed-up personality into Furlong's body. Besides evading Vacendak's army of mercenaries and McCandless police personnel, Alex and Julie also have to deal with fleeing from the private guards of McCandless's corporate X.O., Mark Michelette, who is gunning for McCandless's position. Alex finds he cannot trust his old friends from 1991, who are now eager to sell him out.

After an encounter wherein Furlong spares Vacendak's life, Julie rescues Furlong in one of Vacendak's vehicles. Tired of running, Furlong pretends to take Julie hostage and negotiates with Michelette to arrange a meeting, counting on Michelette's not knowing about their past relationship; however, Michelette has seen the footage of Julie's grief after Alex's 1991 accident. After she slaps Michelette in return for his mockery, the couple flees. They are thwarted when they encounter a gunfight in the lobby between two factions, now in opposition: McCandless's security guards and Vacendak's mercenaries. Julie plans to leave the building through an "escape module" on the hundredth floor, but the elevator takes them automatically to the complex at the very top of the building known as the "Spiritual Switchboard" where McCandless's mind is in storage. In a virtual reality encounter with McCandless's essence, he explains his goal: to use Alex's body to satiate his love for Julie. Apologizing, he offers to die and let Alex run the company under the guise of being McCandless.

As they consider the offer, Vacendak arrives, and McCandless reveals he was merely stalling for time. Alex fights the process as Michelette stumbles in, wounded from fighting Vacendak's soldiers. In the confusion, Julie grabs the gun of the soldier holding her and fires off a shot that disrupts the transfer process. The results are inconclusive as to whether or not it is McCandless or Furlong in Alex's body now. The scientists cannot determine the answer, but Vacendak can, as only Vacendak knows a secret code McCandless gave him.

Alex reads the code, slowly, and Vacendak asks him to continue. Alex finishes the code quickly. Michelette tries to kill Alex but is gunned down by Vacendak's men. Alex remarks about how he feels in his "new" body, before telling Julie that she will be dressed more appropriately so that the two of them can take a drive. Hours later, after the coup is over, Julie and Alex get into one of McCandless's favorite vehicles; Alex tells the driver that he will do the driving today. Vacendak stops them as the car leaves the estate. It turns out that the transfer was not complete after all; Furlong got McCandless's secret number wrong, but Vacendak went along with it. He simply waited until Furlong made a mistake: McCandless did not know how to drive. Vacendak admonishes Julie that "you'll have to coach him better than that", then leaves while Furlong and Julie speed away.

####Fugitive Mind####
A man finds out that he was brainwashed to kill an important government official.

####Future Force (film)####
####Future War####
A spaceship is undergoing a revolt. A man enters and activates an escape pod which travels to Earth and crashes into the Pacific Ocean. The pod contains “The Runaway”, a human slave played by Daniel Bernhardt. He is being pursued by cyborg slavers and dinosaurs that they use as “trackers”. Since he was kidnapped some time from Earth's past, The Runaway is familiar with the English language and the King James Bible, and he regards Earth as a literal heaven.

The Runaway finds refuge with novice nun Sister Ann (Travis Brooks Stewart), whose past involved dealing drugs and prostitution. Together, they fight the dinosaurs and their robotic masters, seeking help from a street gang. "Future War" features star Daniel Bernhardt's kickboxing skills in several fight sequences, including against the Cyborg Master (Robert Z'Dar).

After being arrested as a suspect in a rash of deaths due to strange animal attacks, The Runaway is interrogated by federal agents. They present to him a dinosaur collar found on the beach. The Cyborg Master breaks into the police station during the interrogation and The Runaway manages to escape in the confusion. He returns to Sister Ann and her gang friends with a plan to attack the dinosaurs where they live, as Runaway simply explains, "Near water...".

Using dynamite, The Runaway successfully destroys a water treatment plant, killing the dinosaurs. Later, though, the surviving Cyborg Master attacks The Runaway while he watches Sister Ann make her final vows to become a nun. After The Runaway finally kills the Cyborg Master, he becomes a counselor for runaway teens, working closely with Sister Ann.

####Future World (film)####
Mankind's technological breakthroughs in the development of artificial intelligence and robotics eventually lead to a global war. Afterward, the remnants of humanity struggle to survive in a post-apocalyptic wasteland while the surviving machines remain hidden.

In the wasteland, the Warlord (James Franco) raids a settlement that contains a high-tech lab with Ash (Suki Waterhouse), an android girl. The Warlord activates Ash, who opens two different colored eyes (one blue, one green) that light up when she receives commands through a handheld remote control.

Elsewhere, in the Oasis (a fertile zone), a young man called the Prince (Jeffrey Wahlberg) sets out on a mission into the wasteland in search of medicine to help his sick mother the Queen (Lucy Liu). His only clue to finding it is a faded postcard of a place called Paradise Beach where the rumored cure can be found.

The Prince and his friends who accompany him stop at Love Town, a wasteland settlement that deals in sex slaves and is run by the pimp Big Daddy Love Lord (Snoop Dogg). The group tries to get directions to Paradise Beach, but they attract the attention of the Raiders. The Prince's friend Rico (Ben Youcef) drives off the Raiders with a handgun – a rare and valuable item in the wasteland. Big Daddy approaches with an offer to meet with someone who can help them, but this is a trap set up by the Warlord where Ash captures the Prince and kills his friends. The Warlord then forces the Prince into taking them back to the Oasis, during which Ash (who knows the Warlord will kill everyone) decides to save him.

Ash is damaged during the escape, but she and the Prince manage to find shelter before her systems shut down. The next day, the Prince fashions a stretcher and drags Ash's body through the wasteland. He arrives at the ocean, where his hopes are shattered when they are taken prisoner again by another group of wastelanders residing in the ruins of the seaside resort. At the resort, the Prince meets the Drug Lord (Milla Jovovich), who offers him the cure he seeks, but at a cost. She injects him which causes him to hallucinate before becoming unconscious. Ash is taken to Lei (Margarita Levieva), a mechanic and a prisoner of the Drug Lord, who repairs Ash and reactivates her. Afterward, Ash is taken before the Drug Lord who fawns over how valuable she is.

The next day, the Drug Lord forces the Prince into a gladiatorial battle with one of her minions. She declares that if he survives, he gets the medicine and goes free. The Prince manages to defeat his opponent and retrieves the drugs, but the Drug Lord says that Ash is staying with her.

Later that evening, Lei goes to free Ash who is chained in a cell, but her attempt to saw the chains proves futile. Ash accepts her fate to remain a prisoner. Lei kisses her, but then draws away, thinking it's wrong to take advantage of Ash. However, Ash returns her affection. The next morning, the Drug Lord discovers Ash and Lei together and, in a jealous rage, orders Lei to wipe Ash's memory of the event and reprogram her into a loving companion for herself instead.

Outside, the Prince returns and tries to sneak into the resort just as the Warlord arrives and attacks the complex. In a drug-addled fury, the Drug Lord faces off with the Warlord who ends up killing her with the Prince's handgun. During the distraction, the Prince tries to help Lei and Ash escape, but they are all captured. The Warlord tries to retake control of Ash with the remote, ordering her to kill her friends, but Ash kills his men instead. She stabs the Warlord with a machete and escapes with Lei and the Prince on a pair of the Raider's motorbikes. The Warlord gives chase, but Ash stops and kills him in one last stand.

The three eventually make it back to Oasis. Ash informs the Prince she is leaving to find others like herself. The Prince returns to the Queen and gives her the medicine as Ash rides off with Lei into the wasteland. In a mid-credits post scene, Ash returns to Love Town and frees the sex slaves, who attack Big Daddy Love Lord as revenge for his treatment of them.

####Futureworld####
In 1985,cn|date=December 2022 two years after the Westworld tragedy, the Delos Corporation owners have reopened the park after spending $1.5 billion in safety improvements, and also shutting down Westworld. For publicity purposes, newspaper reporter Chuck Browning and TV reporter Tracy Ballard are invited to review the park.

Just before the junket is announced, Browning arranges to meet with a Delos employee who promises he has dirt on the corporation. During the meeting, the tipster is shot in the back and dies after giving Browning an envelope.

At the resort, guests choose from four theme parks: Spaworld ("where old age and pain have been eliminated"), Medievalworld, Romanworld and Futureworld. Browning and Ballard choose Futureworld, which simulates an orbiting space station. Robots are available for sex as well as amusements like boxing. They are guided through the resort by Dr. Duffy, who shows them the marvels of Delos, demonstrating that all the problems have been fixed.

The reporters are stunned to find that the Control Center is staffed entirely by robots. That night, their dinners are drugged, and while they sleep, medical tests are conducted so Delos can make clones of them. A visiting Russian general and a Japanese politician are also tested for cloning. Back in her room a few hours later, Ballard wakes in a fright, remembering the experience as a nightmare.

Ballard and Browning sneak out to explore the resort's underground areas. They end up triggering a cloning machine, which generates three samurai from the development of an Eastworld park. Just as they are about to be captured by the samurai, a mechanic named Harry saves them. He takes them back to his quarters, where he cohabits with a mechanic robot he has named Clark after Superman's alter-ego. The reporters interview Harry, but they are interrupted by Dr. Schneider and two security officers, and escorted back to their rooms.

The following day, while Ballard is testing out a Delos dream-recording device (which includes a dream sequence of being saved by, dancing with and making love to Yul Brynner's Gunslinger), Browning slips out to see Harry. Harry takes him to a locked door that he has never been able to enter, although robots routinely enter. Realizing the key is in the robot's eyes, Harry destroys a robot and steals its face. They return with Ballard and open the door. Inside, they find clones of themselves, as well as clones of the Russian and Japanese leaders. The clones are instructed always to work for the good of Delos and to destroy their originals. Browning explains that his tipster's envelope was filled with clippings about leaders from around the world, realizing that Delos must be cloning the rich and powerful.

The trio decides to flee the resort on the next plane. The reporters return to their apartment where Duffy is waiting for them; he explains that, by cloning world leaders, they can ensure that nothing harms Delos' interests, and that without "proper" guidance, humans will eventually destroy the planet.

Cloning the reporters would ensure favorable coverage, letting people forget about the Westworld tragedy. Browning attacks Duffy but is easily overpowered with unnatural strength. Ballard shoots the doctor twice, and Browning peels back Duffy's face to reveal that he is a robot. As Harry races to meet up with the reporters, he runs into Browning's clone, who kills him. Ballard and Browning are then chased by their own duplicates, all the while taunting them with details about their lives. Eventually, one of each pair is killed, though which one is left unclear. When they find each other, Browning seizes and kisses Ballard.

In the end, as they leave the resort with the other guests, Dr. Schneider meets them to make sure they are the clones. The reporters confirm that they will be writing positive reviews for Delos, but, just as they reach the exit, Ballard's badly injured clone stumbles towards him and Schneider realizes too late that he has been fooled. On the jetway, Browning tells Ballard that his editor is running the exposé on Delos, that the whole world will know what they are up to, and that kissing her was his idea to figure out whether or not she was a duplicate.

####G.I. Joe: Retaliation####

Intelligence and infantry specialist Duke leads the G.I. Joe Team to the Korean Demilitarized Zone to find a North Korean defector. They are then assigned another mission to steal nuclear warheads from Pakistan after the death of its President during a civil war. Deeming them as traitors for causing an international incident, Zartan, still impersonating the President of the United States, calls an airstrike that kills Duke and most of the other Joes. Heavy machine gunner Roadblock, sniper/parkour expert Flint, and covert operator Lady Jaye survive the attack by diving into a well, and they return to the United States to contact General Joseph Colton, who provides them with weapons.

Meanwhile, Storm Shadow, who survived the Arctic base's destruction,efn|As depicted in "G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra" (2009) and demolitions expert Firefly rescue Cobra Commander from an underground maximum-security prison in Germany, leaving Destro behind. Storm Shadow is injured and retreats to a temple in the Himalayas to recover. The Blind Master, leader of the Arashikage Clan, sends Snake Eyes and his apprentice Jinx, to capture Storm Shadow, allowing him to answer the murder of his uncle, the Hard Master.

After Zartan announces that Cobra will become the premier U.S. special forces team, replacing G.I. Joe, Lady Jaye deduces that someone is impersonating the President by noting changes in his speech patterns. At a presidential fundraiser, she steals a sample of the President's DNA, confirming that he is Zartan. They escape after a confrontation with Firefly and Zandar, the head of the U.S. Secret Service's Presidential Detail and a member of Cobra.

Snake Eyes and Jinx locate and capture Storm Shadow after a battle with some ninjas loyal to Storm Shadow and take him back to Tokyo, where Storm Shadow proclaims that he did not kill the Hard Master and proves it by fighting Snake Eyes with the weapon that killed the Hard Master, which breaks as it isn't Arashikage steel. The Blind Master deduces that Zartan was the one that murdered the Hard Master and framed Storm Shadow for it, who joined Cobra to bring it down from the inside. Exonerated, Storm Shadow accompanies Snake Eyes and Jinx, his cousin, as they join the Joes' efforts to stop Cobra and avenge the Hard Master.

Zartan invites the world leaders to a summit at Fort Sumter, where he blackmails them into disabling their nuclear arsenals, and reveals that he has created Project Zeus: seven orbital kinetic bombardment weapons of mass destruction at his command. To prove his superiority, he destroys Central London and activates the remaining weapons, offering to disarm them if the countries submit to Cobra. Storm Shadow betrays Cobra Commander and starts a fight, revealing Cobra's deception to the world leaders. Colton kills Zandar and rescues the real President with Lady Jaye, while Storm Shadow kills Zartan. While Snake Eyes, Jinx, and Flint fight Cobra's soldiers, Cobra Commander instructs Firefly to protect the launch device, and escapes by helicopter. Roadblock overpowers Firefly and destroys the orbital weapons. Storm Shadow leaves after avenging his uncle.

At the White House ceremony, the real President addresses the nation and commemorates the Joes, who were awarded by Colton: Roadblock, Snake Eyes, Jinx, Flint, and Lady Jaye. Colton presents Roadblock with an M1911 pistol that belonged to General George S. Patton, to be used when they find Cobra Commander. Roadblock proudly raises the weapon and fires a single shot in honor of his fallen comrades, vowing to avenge them.

####G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra####

In the near future, weapons master James McCullen has created a nanotech-based weapon—nanomites designed to devour metal and other materials, capable of destroying anything from tanks to cities. The nanobots can only be stopped by activating the kill switch. His company M.A.R.S. sells four warheads to NATO, and NATO troops led by American soldiers Duke and Ripcord deliver the warheads. Their convoy is ambushed by the Baroness, whom Duke recognizes to be his ex-fiancée Ana Lewis. Duke and Ripcord are rescued by Scarlett, Snake Eyes, Breaker, and Heavy Duty. They take the warheads to The Pit, G.I. Joe's command center in Egypt, and upon arriving, rendezvous with the head of the G.I. Joe Team, General Hawk. Hawk takes command of the warheads and excuses Duke and Ripcord, only to be convinced to let them join his group, after Duke reveals that he knows the Baroness.

McCullen is revealed to be using the same nanotechnology to build an army of soldiers with the aid of the Doctor, planning on using the warheads to cause worldwide panic and bring about a new world order. Using a tracking device, McCullen locates the G.I. Joe base and sends Storm Shadow and the Baroness to retrieve the warheads, with assistance from Zartan.

Storm Shadow and the Baroness retrieve the warheads and take them to Baron DeCobray, the Baroness's husband, for him to weaponize in his particle accelerator; after he reluctantly does this, DeCobray is killed by Storm Shadow. Making their way to Paris, the Joes pursue the Baroness and Storm Shadow, but they launch one of the missiles. The missile hits the Eiffel Tower, destroying it and some of the surrounding area before Duke hits the kill switch. He is captured and taken to McCullen's base under the Arctic.

The Joes locate the secret base and fly there, as McCullen loads the three remaining warheads onto three missiles, which are aimed for Beijing, Moscow, and Washington, DC, the world's three most important capitals. He states that he intends to do this because by killing millions of people in these cities, he will strike fear into the hearts of every man, woman, and child on the planet, after which they will turn to the person with the most power in the world, the President of the United States. After Snake Eyes takes out one missile, Ripcord destroys the remaining two by using a stolen M.A.R.S. prototype Night Raven jet, while Scarlett, Breaker, and Snake Eyes infiltrate the base. Snake Eyes duels and prevails over Storm Shadow. Duke learns that McCullen's employer the Doctor is actually Rex Lewis, Ana's brother, believed to have been killed by a mistimed airstrike during a mission led by Duke (also the origin of the alienation between Duke and Ana). Rex had encountered Dr. Mindbender in the bunker and was seduced by the nanomite technology, taking too long to retrieve the data and getting caught in the bombing, which disfigured him. After freeing Duke, the Baroness is subdued, as the Doctor reveals he has implanted her with nanomites, which has put her under his control for the past four years. Attempting to kill Duke using a flamethrower, McCullen ends up being burned when Duke shoots the weapon and causes it to explode, so Rex and he flee to an escape vessel. Duke and the Baroness pursue him while the Joes fall back after Rex activates the base's self-destruct sequence, which involves 'blowing the ice cap' to create blocks of ice which then nearly crush the Joes.

Rex assumes the identity of the Commander, having healed McCullen's burned face with nanomites, transforming his skin into a silver-like substance and naming him "Destro", which places McCullen under the Commander's control. They are captured by G.I. Joe soon after. On the supercarrier USS "Flagg", the Baroness is placed in protective custody until they can remove the nanomites from her body. Meanwhile, Zartan, having had his physical appearance altered by nanomites, infiltrates the White House during the missile crisis and assumes the identity of the President of the United States, thus completing a part of McCullen's plan to rule the world.

####Galaxis####
####Gamer (2009 film)####
In 2034, computer programmer Ken Castle (Michael C. Hall) invents self-replicating nanites that replace brain tissue and allow humans to control other humans' actions and see through their eyes.  The first application of Castle's "Nanex" technology is a virtual community life simulation game, "Society", which allows gamers to manipulate live actors as their avatars.  "Society" becomes a worldwide sensation, making Castle the richest man in the world. He then creates "Slayers", a first-person shooter where the "characters" are death-row prisoners using real weapons in specially created arenas.  Unlike "Society" actors, "Slayers" participants are not paid; instead, they volunteer in exchange for the promise that any Slayer who survives 30 matches will earn his freedom.

John "Kable" Tillman (Gerard Butler) is the crowd's favorite, having survived a record 27 matches since no inmate before him has managed to last more than ten. He is exclusively controlled by Simon (Logan Lerman), a seventeen-year-old superstar gamer from a wealthy family.

An activist organization called the "Humanz" hacks a talk-show interview with Castle and claims that his technology will one day be used to control people against their will. The Humanz also disrupts "Society" play, but Castle sees both these actions as trivial.  However, Castle feels threatened by Kable's winning streak, and introduces a new inmate into "Slayers", Hackman (Terry Crews), specifically to kill Kable.  Unknown to anyone else, Hackman will not be controlled by a player, and thus not be handicapped by the "ping" that causes a small but dangerous delay between the player's command and the Slayer's action.

Kable/Tillman's estranged wife, Angie (Amber Valletta), works as a "Society" character, but in spite of her earnings, she is refused custody of their daughter Delia, who has been placed with a wealthy foster family.

The Humanz contact Kable and Simon separately, and offer to create a mod that will let him escape, but only if Simon relinquishes control during the game.  The escape is successful, and news outlets report that Kable has been fragged, which puts Simon in a difficult position: he is labeled a "cheater", locked out of his bank account, and arrested by the FBI for helping Kable escape.

Kable is brought to the Humanz' hideout; he refuses to help their fight against Castle, but learns of Angie's current location in "Society".  He rescues her, escaping from both Hackman and Castle's security forces. They are met by Gina (Kyra Sedgwick), the talk show host, secretly assisting the Humanz.  The Humanz deactivates the nanites in Angie and Kable's brains, and Kable remembers that the original nanites were tested on him while he was still in the military.  Under Castle's control, Kable shot and killed his best friend, and was imprisoned.

Upon learning that Castle is the wealthy father who adopted Delia, Kable infiltrates his mansion to get her back. He locates Castle, who reveals that his henchmen have already tracked down the Humanz' lair and killed all of them.  He also reveals that 98% of his own brain has been replaced with nanites, but this allows him to control others, rather than be controlled.  He plans to release air-borne nanites which will infect the entire United States within six months, giving him ultimate control. Hackman attacks Kable, who easily kills him.  Kable then attacks Castle but is frozen in place, as Castle explains that his men have reactivated his and Angie's nanites.

Unknown to Castle, Gina and Trace (Alison Lohman) escaped the murder, and patch into the Nanex, revealing the confrontation to the world and exposing Castle's plans worldwide. They also restore Simon's account, allowing him to regain control of Kable.

Castle tries to manipulate Kable into killing his own daughter, but he resists, and then Simon's control allows him to attack Castle.  He and Simon wrestle for control over Kable, but Kable tells Castle to imagine his knife stabbing him. Castle unconsciously does so, allowing Kable to kill him and removing his control over everyone.  With Castle dead, Kable convinces his technicians to deactivate the Nanex, freeing all the "characters" in "Society" and "Slayers".

####Gathering of Heroes: Legend of the Seven Swords####
In the mystical realm of Ryntia, the forces of the underworld are aligning to unleash a plague of evil upon the surface. The deadly bat-like Blood Reavers, the Goblin Hordes, the Saurian Maurauders, the Orcish Warmongers and the feline Shadowcat mercenaries have pledged their respective clans to the service of Bre'Gwen, queen of the deep elves. Together they seek to destroy the human and Elven kingdoms and rule all of Ryntia in the name of evil.

However even with their combined strength, Bre'Gwen's forces are no match for the powerful Grayraven kingdom led by the majestic king, Garrick Grayraven. To ensure their success, Bre'gwen forges an alliance with an unlikely human who holds the secret to acquiring a powerful artifact that will allow them to summon and control an army of undead warriors from centuries past. Guided by fragmented visions, a mysterious Oracle gathers seven unlikely heroes to face the threat. A heroic knight, a deep elf sorceress, an eccentric bard, a silver elf druid, a righteous paladin, a barbarian huntress, and a brooding thief are the only ones capable of stopping this evil at its source but first they must embark upon a quest to find the legendary seven swords of Draconus.

####Gemini Man (film)####
####Gen¹³ (film)####
College student Caitlin Fairchild is offered a scholarship by the National Security Committee to attend a secret military school set in a U.S. desert base. While there she meets new friends Percival Chang (Grunge) and Roxanne Spaulding (Freefall). Unbeknownst to them, the school's headmasters—Ivana Baiul and Matthew Callahan—are conducting a project known as Gen 13, in which they perform genetic experiments on their pupils in a plot to turn them into super-powered beings ("go Gen Active") and launch an insurrection against the government. The only person in their way is Colonel John Lynch of Internal Operations, an original member of the Gen 12 project who is investigating the Gen 13 project and is determined to expose the headmasters' illegal operations. He introduces himself to Caitlin and mentions that he knew her father, Alex.

While feeling nauseous and searching for the infirmary one night, Caitlin finds a lab and searches through its databases for information on her father, finding out the things he had to put up with as a member of Gen 12. She is joined by Grunge and Roxy, but the three are discovered by a guard. Caitlin displays superhuman abilities and ends up defeating multiple guards so the trio can get away. Grunge and Roxy are soon captured, but Caitlin manages to escape, steal an exo-suit, and return to the base to help rescue her friends. Ivana is convinced that Grunge and Roxy are Lynch's spies and refuses to believe their denials. Soon, she is alerted that Lynch is arriving with a squadron to investigate their illegal activities. Once she leaves, Matthew reveals to Grunge and Roxy that he is psychic and knows that they are telling the truth. He intends to torture them until they go Gen Active or die. Grunge does go Gen Active and gains the power of substance mimicry. He breaks free, knocks out Threshold, and frees Roxy. They kiss afterwards.

After a skirmish with Ivana, the trio intimidates a pilot into flying them home by helicopter as the fighting between Ivana and Lynch's forces rages. Unfortunately, Threshold prevents their escape and destroys the helicopter. Roxy unknowingly engages her gravity-controlling powers and slows their fall. Threshold descends to reveal he intends to overthrow what he believes is a corrupt government that had killed his parents. The trio views him as fanatical and starts to fight him. They defeat him just before Lynch arrives to defuse the situation, and reveals that Caitlin and Threshold are half-siblings. Lynch explains that after learning the NSC was after the two of them, their mother did everything she could to protect them, but when Caitlin's father couldn't help her, she went to her ex-husband Callahan, another member of Gen 12 and Matthew's father. Callahan tried to get them out of the country, however, despite all of his efforts, the NSC killed the both of them and captured Matthew. Lynch couldn't get there in time to save Matthew and his parents, but he found the infant Caitlin, and he returned her to her uncle once the government's SPB program was discontinued. Caitlin realizes her recurring nightmares are repressed memories of that event.

Meanwhile, Ivana sets the base and school to self-destruct. A landslide is caused by the base's destruction and it heads for the gang. With only so little time for them to get away, Threshold sacrifices himself to help his sister escape. Lynch explains to the trio that trying to quit Internal Operations would never end well, but offers to help train them to use their powers to make the world a better place, and Caitlin and her friends accept.

####The Gene Generation####
####Generation X (film)####
Rebellious teenager Jubilation Lee (Heather McComb) finds herself in trouble after her mutant "fireworks" power manifests itself at a local arcade. She is rescued from her predicament by Emma Frost (Finola Hughes) and Sean Cassidy (Jeremy Ratchford), the headmasters of Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters. They recruit "Jubilee" and offer her sanctuary at the school, a place where mutants learn to control their powers. The trio then picks up teenager Angelo "Skin" Espinosa (Agustin Rodriguez) and proceed to the school where Jubilee and Skin are introduced to their fellow students; M (Amarilis), Mondo (Bumper Robinson), Buff (Suzanne Davis) and Refrax (Randall Slavin). At the school the students are taught not only to cope with their mutant powers but also with a world that fears and hates them. The students are warned not to leave the school grounds lest they come into conflict with the "townies" from the local area.

In addition to coping with their new abilities, Jubilee and Skin find their dreams haunted by Russel Tresh (Matt Frewer), a mad scientist obsessed with the power of dreams. Tresh once worked with Emma Frost as a researcher on a project to develop a "dream machine" to access the dream dimension but he was fired from the team when Emma discovered his unethical behavior. Tresh believes that material extracted from mutants' brains will allow him to develop his own psychic abilities. Although Jubilee is able to resist Tresh somewhat, Skin finds himself drawn to Tresh and his promises, and unknowingly falls victim to the scientist. Instructors Frost and Cassidy soon find themselves leading the novice team against an enhanced Tresh in order to rescue the enthralled Skin - a conflict which sees the youngsters pull together as a team and leaves a catatonic Tresh trapped in the "dream dimension".

####Geostorm####

In 2019, following many catastrophic natural disasters, an international coalition commissions a system of climate-controlling satellites called "Dutch Boy". After it neutralizes a typhoon in Shanghai, a US Senate sub-committee reprimands chief architect Jake Lawson because he brought Dutch Boy online without authorization. He is replaced by his brother Max, who works under US Secretary of State Leonard Dekkom.

Three years later, a UN team stationed in the Registan Desert discovers a frozen village. Makmoud Habib, an Indian engineer working on the International Climate Space Station (ICSS), copies data from the satellite responsible for Afghanistan onto a hard drive before he is killed in a supposed accident.

After convincing U.S President Andrew Palma to conduct an investigation, Max persuades Jake to go to the ICSS to investigate. In Hong Kong, a satellite severely increases city temperatures and causes fire whirls and the collapse of multiple buildings.

Jake arrives at the ICSS to examine the malfunctioning satellites, which were damaged and their data erased. He works with station commander Ute Fassbinder and her crew, consisting of engineer Eni Adisa, systems specialist Duncan Taylor, technician Al Hernandez, and security officer Ray Dussette. They recover the hard drive but hide it from the crew, suspecting a traitor. Examining the data leads to the discovery that a computer virus has been introduced, causing the malfunctions and has wiped out the login access of key senior people to the satellite.

Suspecting Palma is using Dutch Boy as a weapon, Jake tells Max he needs to reboot the system to eliminate the virus, requiring the kill code held by Palma. The ICSS staff neutralize malfunctioning satellites by deliberately knocking them offline via collisions with replacement ones.

Back on Earth, Cheng Long discovers that he and Max have lost login access and warns Max of a global cataclysm known as a "Geostorm" if the malfunction continues. Cheng is pursued to Washington, D.C. by a team of rogue government agents, who kill him in a traffic incident, but not before he says "Zeus."

Discovering Project Zeus simulates extreme weather patterns to create a Geostorm, Max enlists his girlfriend, Secret Service agent Sarah Wilson, to acquire the code. During this time, the ICSS team loses control of all operations as the virus initiates the self-destruct program.

During the DNC in Orlando, Florida, Max discovers Orlando is next to be targeted after a massive hailstorm hits Tokyo and an offshore cold snap takes out a portion of Rio de Janeiro. Max requests Dekkom's help, who instead unsuccessfully tries to kill him, revealing himself as the saboteur.

Max immediately informs Sarah, so they kidnap Palma to protect him from Dekkom's agents and secure the kill code. As they escape from the arena before a lightning storm destroys it, Max discloses their activities and Dekkom's treachery to Palma. After outsmarting Dekkom's mercenaries, the three arrest Dekkom and confront him about his plan to eliminate the other elected officials in America's line of succession, allowing him to dominate the world while eliminating America's enemies. Max and Sarah escort Palma to the Kennedy Space Center, where they transmit the code but learn that the self-destruct sequence cannot be stopped.

More disasters strike around the world (including tornadoes in Mumbai, a major heatwave in Moscow, and a megatsunami in Dubai). Jake realizes Duncan is the traitor who masterminded Habib's death and created the storms on Dekkom's orders and confronts him.

Duncan reveals that he's doing it for the big paycheck from Dekkom as he receives a meager salary as a software engineer. Jake tells him that if he does not stop the Geostorm, there will be nothing left on Earth for him to spend his millions. But Duncan sadistically states that he is curious to see how the world would end.

Jake escapes in the ensuing confrontation, and Duncan accidentally ejects himself into space. As the crew evacuates the station, Jake and Ute stay behind to ensure the system's reboot, eliminating the virus and transferring satellite control to NASA, thus preventing the Geostorm at the last second.

They then escape in a replacement satellite, where they take shelter as the self-destruct sequence completes. They use the replacement satellite's thrusters as a beacon, and a nearby shuttle piloted by Hernandez picks them up.

Six months later, Jake is working as the head engineer for Dutch Boy once more, now administered by an international committee.

####Ghost in the Machine (film)####
While working at a computer store in Cleveland, Ohio, serial killer Karl Hochman (Ted Marcoux), known as "The Address Book Killer" due to habitually stealing address books and choosing his victims from them, obtains Terry Munroe's (Karen Allen) address book, due to the store manager, who is demonstrating a scanner, copying a page of her address book into a computer, allowing Karl access to it. On a rainy night while heading home, Karl hurriedly drives into an oncoming lane and swerves to miss a truck. This causes his car to go off the road into a cemetery, all while he laughs like a maniac.

In the emergency room, he is put into an MRI machine. A surge from an electrical storm manages to transfer his soul into a computer. Now, as a network-based entity, Karl continues to plot his killing spree using various objects connected to the electrical grid and computer networks.

Karl opens the scanned page from Terry's address book and begins to kill everyone listed on the page. Her boss, Frank Mallory (Richard McKenzie), becomes the first victim when his microwave oven begins radiating the entire kitchen. Another friend, Elliot Miller (Jack Laufer), gets burned to death when a hand dryer turns into a flamethrower. Later on, babysitter Carol Maibaum (Shevonne Durkin) is hired to look after Terry's son, Josh (Wil Horneff), and his best friend, Frazier (Brandon Adams). However, Carol becomes the third victim; she is electrocuted from an exposed electrical cord on the kitchen floor when the dishwasher explodes and floods the kitchen.

The police do not believe the theory that Karl is on a killing spree after his death, but Josh realizes the order of the killings parallels a list of contacts from Terry's address book. Terry, along with noted computer hacker Bram Walker (Chris Mulkey), unplugs everything in her house.

The police then receive anonymous reports of an armed robbery, a hostage situation, domestic violence, and a murder in progress, all at Terry's house. The police open fire on the home after mistaking an exploding pole transformer for gunfire. After realizing their mistake, they cease fire. Terry's mother goes into shock during the siege and is transported to the hospital for recovery. Aided by Bram and Josh, Bram manages to defeat Karl by introducing a computer virus that traps him in a physics laboratory. They activate an atom smasher located in the lab, which draws Karl in and destroys him because of the extremely powerful magnetic field produced by the machine.

As the film ends, Bram tells Terry to turn off a heart rate monitor in an ambulance, causing the screen to fade to black.

####Ghost in the Shell (2017 film)####
In the near future, humans are augmented with cybernetic improvements such as vision, strength and intelligence. Augmentation developer Hanka Robotics establishes a secret project to develop an artificial body, or "shell", that can integrate a human brain rather than an AI. Mira Killian, the sole survivor of a cyberterrorist attack which killed her parents, is chosen as the test subject after her body is damaged beyond repair. Over the objections of her designer Dr. Ouelet, Hanka Robotics CEO, Cutter, decides to use Killian as a counter-terrorism operative.

A year later, Killian has attained the rank of Major in the counter-terrorism bureau Section 9, working alongside operatives Batou and Togusa under Chief Daisuke Aramaki. Killian, who experiences hallucinations that Ouelet dismisses as glitches, is troubled as she doesn't clearly remember her past. The team thwarts a terrorist attack on a Hanka business conference, and Killian destroys a robotic geisha after the robot kills a hostage. After learning that the geisha was hacked by an unknown entity known as Kuze, Killian breaks protocol and "dives" into its AI for answers. The entity attempts a counter-hack, and Batou is forced to disconnect her. They trace the hacker to a yakuza nightclub, where they are lured into a trap. The explosion destroys Batou's eyes and damages Killian's body. Cutter is enraged by Killian's actions, and threatens to have Section 9 shut down unless Aramaki keeps her in line.

Kuze tracks down Section 9's Hanka consultant, Dr. Dahlin, and kills her. The team links her murder to the deaths of other senior company researchers and realize that Ouelet is the next target. Kuze takes control of two sanitation workers and sends them to kill Ouelet. Now with cybernetic eyes, Batou kills one while the repaired Killian subdues the other. While they interrogate the worker, Kuze speaks through him before compelling him to commit suicide. Togusa traces the hack to a secret location, where the team discovers a large number of humans mentally linked as a makeshift signal network. Killian is captured and Kuze reveals himself as a failed Hanka test subject from the same project that created Killian, where he urges her to question her own memories and to stop taking her medication as it actually helps to block her memories. Kuze then frees her and escapes.

Killian confronts Ouelet, who admits that 98 test subjects died before Killian, and that her memories are implanted. Cutter has decided that Killian is a liability and orders Ouelet to kill her after she returns to Hanka Robotics. Instead, Ouelet gives Killian an address and helps her escape. Cutter kills Ouelet, but blames Killian, saying that she has gone rogue. He informs Aramaki and the team that Killian must be terminated. Killian follows the address to an apartment occupied by a widowed mother, who reveals that her daughter Motoko Kusanagi ran away from home a year ago and was arrested; while in custody, Motoko took her own life. Killian leaves and contacts Aramaki, who allows Cutter to remotely eavesdrop on their conversation.

Batou, Togusa and Aramaki eliminate Cutter's men trying to ambush them, while Killian follows her memories to the hideaway where Motoko was last seen. She and Kuze meet and recall their past lives as anti-augmentation radicals who were abducted by Hanka as test subjects. Cutter deploys a "spider-tank" to kill them. Kuze nearly dies before Killian is able to tear out the tank's Motor Control Center, losing an arm in the process. Mortally wounded, Kuze asks Killian to join him in leaving this world, but Killian refuses and tells Kuze that he will always be with her in her ghost then fades out. A Hanka sniper kills him. Batou and the team rescue Killian, while Aramaki executes Cutter with Killian's consent. The next day, now repaired and embracing her true identity as the Japanese Motoko, Killian reconnects with her mother and returns to work with Section 9.

####Ghosts of Mars####
Set in the second half of the 22nd century, Mars has been 84% terraformed, giving the planet an Earth-like atmosphere. Martian society has become matriarchal, centering on the city of Chryse, with smaller, far-reaching outposts connected by an expansive network of trains. In the wake of a series of mysterious 'incidents', Mars Police Force officer Lt. Melanie Ballard is called before a tribunal to give testimony following a disastrous mission to the remote mining outpost Shining Canyon to retrieve convicted felon James 'Desolation' Williams of which she is apparently the sole survivor.

Through a series of flashbacks, and flashbacks within flashbacks as new perspectives are incorporated into the narrative, Ballard recounts her mission to Shining Canyon. Accompanied by commanding officer Helena Braddock, cocky sergeant Jericho Butler and rookie officers Bashira Kincaid and Michael Descanso, Ballard arrives at Shining Canyon to find the town seemingly deserted. Investigating the town's jail, Braddock discovers a trio of individuals who appear to have sealed themselves into one of the cells; among them science officer Dr. Arlene Whitlock.

Ballard and Butler discover a number of disoriented miners and an escaped Desolation. The group are soon attacked by several of the miners, forcing Ballard and Desolation to band together and incapacitate them. Ballard is forced to shoot and kill one of them, causing their affliction to be passed on to one of the three survivors. Butler, venturing out to the edge of town in pursuit of one of the feral miners, discovers a row of severed heads mounted on spikes, including the head of Commander Braddock, and a large assembly in the canyon below committing horrific acts of self-mutilation and ritualistic execution.

Desolation's associates soon arrive and force Ballard and Butler to release him. While they originally plan on leaving the officers and remaining miners to die, Ballard convinces them to work together to survive. Their initial effort to escape is halted when the army of feral miners converge on their position, killing, injuring and infecting several of their number. Confronted by Ballard, Whitlock eventually explains that she fled from her post after discovering an ancient underground vault created by an extinct Martian civilization. When the door to the vault was opened, it released hostile spirits or "ghosts", which took possession of the workers, causing their violent behavior. Killing a possessed human merely releases the Martian spirit to possess another host. Ballard surmises that these Martian spirits believe humans to be an invading race. Ballard is briefly possessed until Butler feeds her a hallucinogenic drug, which forces the Martian spirit to leave her body.

The group are forced to flee as the possessed workers breach the jail, leaving only Ballard, Desolation, Butler, Kincaid and Whitlock left alive. While they are able to make it to the train, Ballard realizes that they have a duty to exterminate the Martian threat and decide to return to Shining Canyon to overload the outpost's nuclear power plant, assuming that the ensuing atomic blast will vaporize the spirits. While they are able to initiate the meltdown, Whitlock is possessed, while Butler, Kincaid and the two train operators are killed. Boarding the train, the two watch as the army is engulfed in the explosion. Desolation tends to Ballard's wounds. Unwilling to face the authorities, he handcuffs Ballard to her cot and leaves. She moves to shoot him, but realizes her respect for him and lets him make his escape.

Resting after her tribunal, Ballard is woken by an alert that the city is under attack. Realizing their attempt to destroy the spirits failed, she readies herself to face the onslaught alone until she is greeted by Desolation, who hands her a weapon. The two agree to fight their way out of the city together.

####Godkiller####
####Godzilla (2014 film)####

In 1954, Godzilla, a prehistoric alpha predator, is lured to Bikini Atoll in an attempt to kill him with a nuclear bomb. In 1999, Monarch scientists Ishiro Serizawa and Vivienne Graham investigate the skeleton of a monster similar to Godzilla in a cavern unearthed by a collapsed uranium mine in the Philippines. They also find two giant spores, one dormant and one hatched, along with a trail leading to the sea. In Japan, the Janjira Nuclear Power Plant experiences unusual seismic activity as supervisor Joe Brody sends his wife Sandra to lead a team of technicians into the reactor. A tremor breaches the reactor, forcing Joe to close the reactor door before Sandra and her team can escape while the plant collapses.

Fifteen years later, Joe and Sandra's son Ford, a U.S. Navy EOD officer, returns from a tour of duty to his wife Elle and son Sam in San Francisco, but must immediately depart for Japan after Joe is detained for trespassing in Janjira's quarantine zone. Joe is determined to find out the cause of the meltdown and persuades Ford to accompany him to retrieve vital data from their old home. They learn that the zone is uncontaminated and retrieve the data, but are discovered and taken to a facility in the plant's ruins. The facility harbors a massive chrysalis that had been feeding off the plant's reactors for 15 years and emitting intense electromagnetic pulses over time. A giant winged insect-like creature emerges from the chrysalis and escapes, destroying the facility. Joe is severely injured and later dies. The incident is reported publicly as an earthquake.

Serizawa and Graham join a U.S. Navy task force led by Admiral William Stenz to search for the creature, dubbed a "MUTO" (Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organism). Serizawa and Graham reveal to Ford that a 1954 deep-sea expedition awakened Godzilla. Nuclear tests in the 1950s were attempts to kill him; when this did not work, Project Monarch was established to study Godzilla and similar monsters secretly. They also explain that the MUTO caused the Janjira meltdown. Ford reveals Joe had monitored echolocation signals indicating the MUTO was communicating with something, presumably Godzilla.

The MUTO attacks a Russian submarine and drops it in O'ahu to eat its nuclear material. Godzilla arrives, causing a tsunami in Honolulu, and briefly engages the MUTO in battle until it flees. Serizawa deduces Godzilla was only listening as the MUTO was communicating with something else, prompting the military to investigate the other spore stored in the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository in Nevada. However, a second, bigger, wingless MUTO has already emerged and attacks Las Vegas. The scientists deduce that it is female and was what the male was communicating with, their signals being a mating call.

Over the scientists' objections, Stenz approves a plan of using nuclear warheads to lure all three monsters out into the open ocean and destroy them. Returning to the U.S., Ford joins the team delivering the warheads by train, but the female MUTO intercepts them and devours most of the warheads. The remaining warhead is airlifted with Ford to San Francisco, where the monsters are converging, and activated after Godzilla appears at the Golden Gate Bridge, only for the male MUTO to snatch it and take it to the female, who forms a nest around it in the Chinatown area.

While Godzilla and the MUTOs battle, Ford and a strike team enter the city via HALO jump to find and disarm the warhead before it detonates. Unable to access the timer, the team gets the warhead onto a boat for disposal at sea while Ford destroys the nest. Godzilla defeats the MUTOs and collapses on the shore from exhaustion. Ford gets the boat out to the open sea, is rescued before the warhead explodes, and reunites with his family at an emergency shelter the following morning.

Godzilla reawakens and returns to the sea, while the media dubs him the "King of the Monsters" and speculate whether he might be a savior.

####Godzilla vs. Kong####
####Godzilla: Final Wars####
Over the course of the 20th century, environmental disasters cause the appearance of giant monsters and superhumans, dubbed "mutants", who are then recruited into the Earth Defense Force (EDF) to battle the monsters. During a battle in Antarctica with the original "Gotengo", the monster Godzilla is entrapped under ice by a cave-in caused by a series of missiles fired off from the submarine. Many years later, an upgraded "Gotengo", now commanded by Captain Douglas Gordon, battles and destroys Manda in the English Channel off the coast of Normandy, but the ship is wrecked in the process and Gordon is suspended from the EDF.

Mutant soldier Shinichi Ozaki is tasked with guarding a U.N. biologist, Dr. Miyuki Otonashi, who is sent to study a mummified monster. They are teleported to Infant Island where they encounter the Shobijin, fairies of Mothra, who reveal the mummified monster as Gigan, an alien cyborg sent to destroy the Earth ten thousand years earlier, who was ultimately defeated by Mothra. They warn that a battle between good and evil will happen soon and that Ozaki must choose a side. Suddenly, giant monsters attack several major cities: Rodan attacks New York City, Anguirus attacks Shanghai, Zilla attacks Sydney, King Caesar attacks Okinawa, Kamacuras attacks Paris, Kumonga attacks Monument Valley in Arizona, Ebirah attacks Tokai, and Hedorah attacks an unknown location. The EDF engages the creatures, until the monsters mysteriously vanish as an alien mothership appears over Tokyo. The aliens, named Xiliens, claim that they eliminated the monsters as a gesture of goodwill, and warn Earth's leaders that an incoming planet called "Gorath" will soon impact the Earth, offering their help to destroy it. A peace pact is signed between humanity and the Xiliens. Meanwhile, Minilla, Godzilla's son, is found in the forests of Japan by Kenta Taguchi and his grandfather Samon Taguchi.

Distrusting the Xiliens, Ozaki, Miyuki, and Miyuki's sister Anna discover that the Gorath shown by the Xiliens is actually a hologram and that the aliens have replaced several members of the EDF with duplicates. After the Xiliens are exposed with help from Gordon and the other mutants, the Xiliens' Controller (who called himself "X" during an interview on a radio show) kills his superior to assume command, revealing the plan to use humans as a food source while taking control of all the mutants except for Ozaki through a property in their DNA known as "M-base". X also has the monsters placed under his control through M-base in their DNA and awakens Gigan to wipe out the EDF. The group escapes in a repaired "Gotengo", although Gigan pursues them.  Gordon convinces them to travel to Antarctica to release Godzilla, who is immune to Xilien control thanks to his lack of M-base and easily destroys Gigan. The "Gotengo" then guides Godzilla into a series of battles with the other monsters: he defeats Zilla, Kumonga,  Kamacuras, Rodan, King Caesar, Anguirus, Ebirah, and Hedorah, before the "Gotengo" leads him into Tokyo to engage the Xiliens. After penetrating the mothership, the humans are captured and brought before X as he summons Gorath to Earth. Godzilla destroys Gorath just before it crashes, but this unleashes Monster X and the two monsters battle. An upgraded Gigan joins Monster X but is intercepted by Mothra, who is gravely wounded while managing to destroy the cyborg.

In the Xilien ship, X reveals that both he and Ozaki are superior beings known as "Keizers", powerful beings distinct from regular mutants born on rare occasions when human DNA and M-base are combined, before directly taking control of Ozaki to turn him against the group. A fight breaks out, and X loses control of Ozaki due to the Shobijins' blessing. Ozaki unlocks his true power and defeats X, who triggers the ship's self-destruct as the group falls back to the "Gotengo" moments before the mothership explodes. Godzilla and Monster X continue their battle, but a dying X transfers his Keizer energy to Monster X, enabling it to transform into its final form, Keizer Ghidorah. Godzilla is almost defeated by Keizer Ghidorah, but Ozaki transfers some of his own Keizer energy to Godzilla, giving him the strength to gain the upper hand and emerge victorious. Godzilla then shoots down the "Gotengo", before turning his ire towards its crew after they leave the damaged vessel. Fortunately, Minilla shows up at the scene and convinces Godzilla not to kill the humans. The humans watch as Godzilla and Minilla return to the ocean.

####Green Lantern (film)####
####Guardians of the Galaxy (film)####


In 1988, following his mother's death, a young Peter Quill is abducted from Earth by a group of alien thieves and smugglers called the Ravagers led by Yondu Udonta. In 2014, on the abandoned planet Morag, Quill steals a mysterious Orb, but is attacked by forces of the fanatical Kree renegade Ronan the Accuser led by Korath. Although Quill escapes with the Orb, Yondu discovers his theft and issues a bounty for his capture, while Ronan sends the assassin Gamora after the Orb.

When Quill attempts to sell the Orb on Xandar, capital of the Nova Empire, Gamora ambushes him and steals it. A fight ensues, drawing in a pair of bounty hunters: the genetically and cybernetically modified raccoon Rocket, and the tree-like humanoid Groot. Nova Corps officers capture the four, detaining them in the Kyln prison. An inmate there, Drax the Destroyer, attempts to kill Gamora due to her association with Ronan, who killed his wife and daughter. Quill convinces Drax that Gamora can bring Ronan to him, though Gamora reveals that she has betrayed Ronan, unwilling to let him use the Orb's power. Learning that Gamora intends to sell the Orb to the Collector Taneleer Tivan, Quill, Rocket, Groot, and Drax work with her to escape the Kyln in Quill's ship, the "Milano".

Ronan meets with Gamora's adoptive father, Thanos, to discuss her betrayal. Quill's group flees to Knowhere, a remote lawless outpost in space built in the giant severed head of a Celestial. A drunken Drax summons Ronan while the rest of the group meets Tivan. Tivan opens the Orb, revealing the Power Stone, an item of immeasurable power that destroys all but the most powerful beings who wield it. Tivan's slave Carina grabs the Stone, triggering an explosion that engulfs Tivan's collection. Ronan arrives and easily defeats Drax, while the others flee by ship, pursued by Ronan's followers and Gamora's adoptive sister Nebula. Nebula destroys Gamora's ship, leaving her floating in space, and Ronan's fighters capture the Orb.

Quill contacts Yondu before following Gamora into space, giving her his helmet to survive; Yondu arrives and retrieves the pair. Rocket, Drax, and Groot threaten to attack Yondu's ship to rescue them, but Quill negotiates a truce, promising the Orb to Yondu. Quill's group agrees that facing Ronan means certain death, but that they cannot let him use the Infinity Stone to destroy the galaxy. On Ronan's flagship, the "Dark Aster", Ronan embeds the Stone in his warhammer, taking its power for himself. He contacts Thanos, threatening to kill him after first destroying Xandar. Hateful of her adoptive father, Nebula allies with Ronan.

The Ravagers and Quill's group join with the Nova Corps to confront the "Dark Aster" at Xandar, with Quill's group breaching the warship with the "Milano". Ronan uses his empowered warhammer to destroy the Nova Corps fleet. Drax kills Korath and Gamora defeats Nebula, who escapes, but the group finds themselves outmatched by Ronan's power until Rocket crashes a Ravager ship through the "Dark Aster". The damaged "Dark Aster" crash-lands on Xandar, with Groot sacrificing himself to shield the group. Ronan emerges from the wreck and prepares to destroy Xandar, but Quill distracts him, allowing Drax and Rocket to destroy Ronan's warhammer. Quill grabs the freed Stone, and with Gamora, Drax, and Rocket sharing its burden, uses it to vaporize Ronan.

In the aftermath, Quill tricks Yondu into taking a container supposedly containing the Stone, and gives the real one to the Nova Corps. As the Ravagers leave Xandar, Yondu remarks that it turned out well that they did not deliver Quill to his father per their contract. Quill's group, now known as the Guardians of the Galaxy, has their criminal records expunged, and Quill learns that he is only half-human, his father being part of an ancient, unknown species. Quill finally opens the last present he received from his mother, a cassette tape filled with her favorite songs. The Guardians leave in the rebuilt "Milano" along with a potted sapling cut from Groot, which grows into a baby version of him.

In a post-credits scene, Tivan sits in his destroyed archive with two of his living exhibits: a canine cosmonaut and an anthropomorphic duck.efn|Identified outside the film's narrative as Cosmo the Spacedog and Howard the Duck.<ref name="StitchKingdom2" /><ref name="Green" />

####The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special####
####Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2####
####Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3####
####Guyver: Dark Hero####
One year after bonding with the Guyver unit and destroying the Cronos Corporation, the company responsible for the Guyver and the creatures called the Zoanoids, in Los Angeles, Sean Barker has been using his powers to fight crime. Unfortunately, the Guyver unit’s desire to kill has left Sean emotionally exhausted. Learning of cave drawings that resemble the images he has been seeing in his dreams discovered in the mountains of Utah, Sean makes his way to the archeological dig taking place there. Along the way, he encounters Cori Edwards, daughter of Marcus Edwards, the lead archeologist at the site.

Upon arrival, Sean discovers a skull resembling Lisker's, a Zoanoid that he fought a year ago. Later that night, Sean battles a Zoanoid called Volker, which has been terrorizing the archeological dig. When their battle is cut short by the arrival of Cori and her team (which enables Volker to escape), Sean is questioned by a suspicious Commander Atkins, who reveals that the Guyver only destroyed the Los Angeles branch of the Cronos Corporation and that another branch of Cronos is behind the Zoanoid attacks in the mountains.

The very next day, the team of archaeologists unearths an extraterrestrial ship. After several unsuccessful attempts to breach it, the ship mysteriously opens up a hatch for the archaeologists to enter.  Inside, Sean communicates with the ship and demands that it removes the Guyver unit from within him. Meanwhile, Cori discovers a damaged Guyver unit, but Arlen Crane confiscates it from her. Attempting to confront Crane, Cori instead learns that Arlen Crane actually works for the Cronos Corporation and plans to terminate all non-Cronos personnel at the site. She is captured by Volker eavesdropping and is escorted in a jeep. The jeep is attacked by Marcus, revealed to be a Zoanoid, who battles both Monk and Volker Zoanoids but is eventually overwhelmed. At the camp, Crane reveals himself as a Zoanoid to Sean, who rejects his offer of an alliance to activate the ship and turn himself and the Zoanoids back to normal. Crane has his chief of security, Brandi Harris, sedate and bind Sean. Atkins frees Sean who rushes to save Cori as the Guyver. After killing both Monk and Volker Zoanoids, the Guyver spares Marcus and reveals his identity to Cori.

At the camp, Atkins and his commandos prevent Crane from executing the archaeological team and safely evacuate them. However, Atkins is captured and his commandos are brutally murdered by one of the escaping Zoanoids.

Sean reveals to Cori that he plans to destroy the ship. Whilst Sean communicates with the ship, seeing images of prehistoric times with the creation of Zoanoids and the Guyver units, Cori plants dynamites in the dig site but is captured by Crane and his Zoanoids. With Cori as a hostage, Crane demands Sean to deactivate the Guyver unit and surrender. Marcus intervenes and a battle ensues: Marcus battles Crane but is killed in the process, Atkins manage to kill Brandi, a Zoanoid as well, after electrocuting and finally shooting her dead. Sean kills the remaining Zoanoids and confronts Crane, who reveals he had merged with the damaged Guyver unit and transforms into a Guyver-Zoanoid. Faster and stronger, he overwhelms Sean, stabbing him in the chest, but Cori shoots Crane’s Control Medal. Sean removes the damaged Control Medal - which causes the Guyver suit to consume Crane - and uses his Mega Smasher to put Crane out of his misery.

Following the events, Sean reveals to Cori that the Guyvers were a failed experiment: in prehistoric times, aliens had attempted to turn primitive humans into Guyvers to fight their wars, but the humans rebelled, forcing the aliens to leave Earth. Using his Control Medal, Sean instructs the ship to return to its home planet. With the battle won, Atkins attempts to recruit Sean to aid the government in fighting an underground war against the Cronos Corporation, but Sean refuses and drives off with Cori instead.

####Hangar 18 (film)####
"Hangar 18" is about a cover-up following a UFO incident aboard the Space Shuttle. A satellite, just launched from the orbiter, collides with an unidentified object which, after being spotted on radar moving at great speeds, had positioned itself just over the shuttle. The collision kills an astronaut in the launch bay. The events are witnessed by Bancroft and Price, the astronauts aboard. After returning to Earth, they are stonewalled when they try to discuss what happened. Harry Forbes, Deputy Director of NASA, simply tells them that "everything is going to be all right".

After it makes a controlled landing in the Arizona desert, the damaged alien spacecraft is taken to Wolf Air Force Base in Texas and installed in Hangar 18, where scientists and other technicians, headed by Harry Forbes, can study it. Due to an impending presidential election, government officials are anxious to prevent any public knowledge of the event.

Meanwhile, unbeknownst to Forbes, the Air Force puts out a news story blaming Bancroft and Price for the death of their colleague and for the destruction of the satellite. The men know they can prove their innocence by viewing the telemetry tapes which recorded the UFO; but when they view them, all evidence of the object has been erased. Through a friend who works at a remote tracking station, they see the real telemetry and discover where the alien craft landed. They set out to expose the cover-up and clear their names.

In the hangar, investigators who enter the ship find its two crew members are dead. They determine that, during the collision with the satellite, chemicals were released in the craft that produced a short-lived toxic gas. They find a human woman in a stasis chamber, who later wakes up screaming. They realize that symbols on the control panels match those used by ancient Earth civilizations. Video on the ship's computer shows extensive surveillance of power plants, military bases, industrial plants and major cities worldwide. Autopsies performed on the aliens show that they and humans had similar evolutionary processes. A scientist deduces that the ship could not have reached Earth on its own, but must have been launched from a much larger, faster and more long-ranged mother ship.

In their pursuit of the truth, Bancroft and Price get closer to Hangar 18 but are targets of government agents. They elude one team, who are killed during a high-speed chase. Later, they find the brakes on their rental car have stopped working, and after careening along roads, they come to rest on the grounds of a gas refinery. Agents begin shooting at them, so they drive off in an oil tanker. With the agents in pursuit, Price climbs onto the tanker, lets some gas out of the truck, lights an emergency flare, and tosses it. Their pursuers crash and are killed, but Price is fatally shot. When Forbes learns of Price's death, he demands the Air Force take Bancroft to Hangar 18 or he will go to the press with the truth. Their cover-up and careers now threatened, government officials decide to remotely fly an explosives-filled plane into Hangar 18 to destroy all evidence of the event.

The researchers have determined that the aliens have been to Earth before and that human beings are, in fact, their descendants. Further examination of the video footage reveals that the industrial and military sites are "designated landing areas", suggesting the aliens are preparing to return.

When Bancroft arrives at the base, he crashes through the base's security gate and, hiding in a warehouse, is discovered by Forbes, who takes him to Hangar 18 and the alien craft. Just as a researcher reveals that a translation of the aliens' language indicates that they are about to return, the plane crashes into Hangar 18, creating a huge explosion.

The next day, a news report says that Bancroft, Forbes and their group of technicians survived the blast, shielded inside an alien spacecraft. Forbes schedules a press conference for that afternoon.

####Hardcore Henry####


A man wakes inside a laboratory on an airship. A scientist, Estelle, tells him his name is Henry, claims to be his wife, and he has been revived from an accident that left him amnesiac and mute. She replaces his missing limbs with cybernetic prostheses, but mercenaries led by the psychokinetic Akan raid the ship before she can replace Henry's voice. Akan claims all of Estelle's research is his corporate property. He kills Estelle's scientists, but Henry and Estelle flee in an escape pod, landing in Moscow. The mercenaries follow and abduct Estelle.

Henry is rescued by a stranger named Jimmy, who informs him that his cybernetic limbs are running out of power, which will kill him if he cannot recharge. Jimmy is killed by corrupt police paid by Akan, but Henry escapes. He is joined by another Jimmy, now an alcoholic bum, who informs him that one of Akan's associates, Slick Dimitry, has a charging pump which Henry needs to recharge. The two are attacked, and again Jimmy is killed. Henry escapes, and hunts Dimitry through Moscow before capturing him. Just as Dimitry promises him information, he is killed by a sniper. Henry removes the pump and receives a call from Jimmy, who directs Henry to a brothel.

Henry meets two more distinct versions of Jimmy; one a nervous nerd, the other a drug-fuelled sex maniac, who replace his pump. The brothel is attacked by Akan's forces. Akan taunts Henry about Estelle, who is being transported by an armored convoy, before ejecting Henry from the brothel. Outside, Henry encounters another Jimmy, a stoner, who transports him to Akan's convoy. Henry attacks the convoy and locates Estelle and Akan, who beats him with a baseball bat and buries him in the woods.

Jimmy finds and resuscitates Henry, only to be shelled by a tank. After killing the tank crew and fending off a helicopter, Henry finds another Jimmy, who leads him to an abandoned hotel and a hidden laboratory. Here, the original Jimmy—a quadriplegic scientist—reveals that he is seeking revenge against Akan, who crippled him after his own cyborg super-soldiers failed. The other Jimmys are clones based on aspects of Jimmy's personality that he can control via a headset. The clones sing and dance with Henry to the song "I've Got You Under My Skin".

Jimmy realizes that Henry has been unknowingly broadcasting his location to Akan, with a strike force closing in, and the clones attack Henry. Fending off Jimmy, Henry convinces him to help. Henry and the clones fight their way out, killing Akan's forces by collapsing the laboratory on them.

Jimmy and Henry drive to Akan's headquarters. They fight their way into an elevator, but Jimmy is mortally wounded. Before dying, Jimmy thanks Henry for being a friend, and removes a memory blocker, gradually restoring Henry's memories. Henry fights his way to the highest floor, where he is greeted by Akan and an army of cyborg super-soldiers with Henry's memories. The soldiers chase Henry to the roof.

Henry wipes out the entire army to the Queen song "Don't Stop Me Now", before Akan arrives and severely wounds Henry. Estelle arrives and reveals that she is actually Akan's wife. Everything that happened was an elaborate ruse to field-test their ability to manipulate cyborg soldiers into doing anything to "rescue" their "wives", including committing terrorist acts.

Akan and Estelle prepare to board a helicopter, leaving Henry for dead. Henry blacks out, but a memory of his father revives him and motivates him to crush Akan's hands and wrap his robotic eyestalk around Akan's jaw, decapitating him. He jumps onto Estelle's helicopter, presenting her with Akan's head. She shoots Henry, but a bullet ricochets and hits her, causing her to stumble out of the helicopter. Henry slams the door on her hands, sending her plummeting to her death.

####Hardwired (film)####
In the not-too-distant future where corporations control nearly every aspect of human life, a man named Luke Gibson is involved in a car accident that claims the life of his wife and their unborn child. Luke has severe brain damage, but Hope Corporation agrees to implant a chip into his brain to save his life. He discovers that this chip also constantly sends advertisements until either the person obtains the product, or they go insane. While trying to figure out why they did this to him and who he is, he finds out that the chip is a test product with a fail-safe that could kill him. He succumbs to the effects but the Corporation fears that their test might be discovered, and they decide to activate the fail-safe. Just before it goes off, a group of underground hackers led by Hal and "Keyboard" hack into the chip and save his life. After using the chip to guide him away from Hope Corp. pursuers, they agree to try to help him remember who he is in exchange for assisting in their fight against Hope Corp. They show him that his accident was no accident but actually planned by Hope Corp. so they could use him as a test subject. He agrees to help but is captured during the attempt and taken to a facility controlled by Hope Corp. Luke, with the help of Punk Red and Punk Blue, manages to fight his way to the leader of the project, Virgil Kirkhill. Virgil is killed after a short confrontation, and Luke escapes. He meets up with "Red" and "Blue" (the only remaining members of the underground group). Together they vow to continue the fight until Hope Corporation is destroyed.

####Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man####
####Heavy Metal 2000####
In ages past, the Arakacians, a malevolent race, discovered a place where space-time leaked a type of fluid. This fluid granted immortality to anyone who consumed it. The Arakacians built an empire and enslaved the known universe for centuries. They were finally vanquished after the fountain chamber (where they gathered the water of life) was sealed by freedom fighters. The key to the chamber, a glowing crystal that can lead the bearer back to the fountain and drives anyone who possessed it insane, was cast into space and lost among the stars.

In a present-day asteroid excavation, space crewman Tyler and his colleague find the key by accident. Tyler touches the key and instantly goes insane. He kills his mining partner and takes over the ship, killing everyone but Dr. Schechter, and the pilots Lambert and Germain. a planet that is designated F.A.K.K.² (Federation-Assigned Ketogenic Killzone to the second level), but has inhabitants whose bodies carry the immortality fluid. Tyler invades Eden, and kills many of the Edenites, capturing some so he can extract the immortality fluids from their bodies. He also keeps the attractive Kerrie for his own sexual purposes. When Germain resists the idea, he is left on Eden.

Kerrie's sister Julie survives the attack and teams up with Germain to follow Tyler. At a renegade space station, Julie finds Tyler and critically injures him. However, he ingests a vial with the immortality serum and heals instantly.<ref name="variety"/> In the ensuing gunfight, Tyler blows up the club. Escaping the explosion, Julie and Germain board a shuttlecraft that latches onto Tyler's ship before it jumps into hyperspace. Discovering them mid-travel, Tyler tries to shake them off, but the fight causes the two ships to crash.

Julie wakes up on Oroboris, a desert planet, and meets Odin, a mysterious cloaked sage, and his assistant, Zeek, a rock-like creature. The two are guardians of the ancient fountain. With his ship destroyed and most of his crew dead, Tyler orders Dr. Schechter to extract Kerrie's fluids. While exploring the planet, he finds a race of reptilian beings and conquers them by defeating their champion and their leader in a death match. Julie enters the reptilian city in disguise as a woman that the reptiles found for Tyler. That night, she seduces Tyler and tries to kill him, but Zeek stops the attempt and captures her, taking her back to Odin. Julie then infiltrates Tyler's ship and discovers Kerrie is still alive. She takes out Dr. Schechter, frees Kerrie, and escapes as the complex explodes. Tyler, with only three vials of serum left, orders his troops to storm the citadel where the immortality fountain is located.

At the citadel, Julie undergoes a ritual where armor is bestowed upon her. She, Kerrie, and Germain help the fountain's guardians defend against Tyler's army. In the fighting, Lambert suffers a near-fatal injury and knocks Tyler's last vial of immortality serum loose, breaking it on the ground. Tyler, enraged, kills Lambert for the blunder and walks to the pit of immortality. He is about to put the crystal into the fountain's final lock but is stopped by Julie, who stabs him in the left eye. A fight ensues in which, with Odin's help, Julie finally kills Tyler. Odin then throws off his cloak, revealing himself to be the last of the Arakacians. He has been in hiding all these centuries, waiting for someone to find the chamber key and be drawn to the fountain. He intends to claim it as his own and reestablish the Arakacian empire. However, Zeek pulls the crystal key from the pedestal, locking Odin inside the fountain chamber forever, and flies into outer space. As Germain and Kerrie help Julie to her feet, Zeek envelops the crystal into himself and becomes a new asteroid to hide the key for all time.<ref name="badmovies"/>

####Hell Comes to Frogtown####
This film is set in a post-apocalyptic wasteland where few fertile men and women exist due to atomic fallout. As a result, the government places a high priority on those who can still breed. Shortly before the movie opens, a group of mutant amphibians (who have been exiled to the desert by humans) capture a group of fertile women and are using them as sex slaves.

Sam Hell (Piper) is a nomadic traveler who wanders the countryside. He is first seen tied to a chair and smashed over the head with a bottle by a man whose daughter he sexually assaulted. He is eventually captured by an organization of warrior-nurses, the closest thing to a government in his region of the world, who reveal that they located him by tracking the trail of pregnant women left in his wake. Their original plan was to use him as breeding stock with their collection of fertile women, but this was the group captured by the mutants. With their own attempts to capture the women failing, the group presses Hell into service as a mercenary; he is to infiltrate the mutant city (derogatorily referred to as "Frogtown") and rescue the women. To make sure that the rebellious Hell follows his orders, he is forced to wear an electronic protective codpiece that will explode if he disobeys or tries to abort his mission. Having already had numerous samples of his reproductive material taken, he is now deemed far more expendable than the women themselves. To aid him in his mission (and make sure he follows the plan), he is paired with one of the nurses, Spangle (Bergman), and an aggressive guard named Centinella (Verrell).

During their journey to Frogtown, Hell tries numerous times to escape, but quickly learns that a device Spangle carries will shock his genitals if used or if he gets too far away from it. Despite their rocky start and Spangle's initial cold demeanor, the pair grow closer during the journey and eventually fall in love. When they reach Frogtown, everyone involved is captured. The frogs' second-in-command, Bull (Nicholas Worth), tortures Hell and attempts to remove the codpiece for its technology. Meanwhile, a slightly drugged Spangle is forced to work as a slave and dance for the frogs' Commander Toty (Brian Frank) in the notable "Dance of the Three Snakes" sequence. Proving more successful than she had wished, the nurse soon finds herself at the mercy of the aroused commander. However, with the codpiece now removed (Bull finally removed it with a chainsaw, but it blew up and killed him), the escaped Hell rescues her along with the group of fertile women (Ellen Crocker, Kim Hewson, Ilana Ishaki, Annie McKinon and Janie Thorson) held captive.

####The Hidden (1987 film)####
Jack DeVries, a quiet citizen with no criminal past, robs a Los Angeles Wells Fargo bank, kills all of the security guards inside, and leads the Los Angeles Police Department on a high-speed chase. The chase ends when DeVries encounters a police blockade overseen by Detective Thomas Beck. DeVries is shot several times, smashes through the blockade and crashes the Ferrari he is driving. DeVries is taken to a hospital, where a doctor informs Beck and his partner, Detective Cliff Willis, that DeVries is not expected to survive the night.

Upon his return to LAPD headquarters, Beck and his supervisor, Lieutenant John Masterson, meet FBI Special Agent Lloyd Gallagher, who informs them that Beck has been assigned to work with Gallagher to track down DeVries. When told of DeVries's condition, Gallagher rushes off to the hospital.

Meanwhile, at the hospital, DeVries suddenly awakens. Disconnecting his life-support equipment, he approaches the comatose man in the next bed, Jonathan P. Miller. After DeVries forces Miller's mouth open, a slug-like alien emerges from DeVries' mouth and transfers itself into Miller's body. Gallagher arrives to find DeVries dead on the floor and Miller's bed abandoned. Gallagher tells Beck to put out an alert on Miller, but Beck refuses, because Miller has no criminal record.

Miller goes to a record store where he beats the store's owner to death. He then goes to a car dealership, where he kills three men and steals a red Ferrari. He then visits a strip club, where the alien leaves Miller's body and takes over the body of a stripper named Brenda. Gallagher asks police to track Brenda when he sees her picture next to Miller's body. Brenda is then propositioned by a stranger; she accepts and follows him to his car. They proceed to have sex in his car which results in his death. She then takes his car. Gallagher and Beck pursue her to a rooftop, where they mortally wound her in a gun battle. As Brenda dies, Gallagher points a strangely-shaped, alien weapon at her; however, she leaps from the roof. As Masterson arrives from his house to take charge of the scene, the alien transfers itself from Brenda's dying body to Masterson's dog.

Frustrated by Gallagher's continuing refusal to explain the strange phenomenon of ordinary citizens turning into crazed killers, Beck arrests him and puts him in a jail cell. Beck soon learns that "Gallagher" is an imposter, impersonating the real agent Gallagher, who is dead. When Beck confronts "Gallagher" with this information, "Gallagher" admits to being an extraterrestrial lawman and that they are in fact pursuing an alien thrill killer who has the ability to take over other's bodies. Beck dismisses the story as insane and leaves "Gallagher" in a jail cell at the police station.

Back at Masterson's house, the alien leaves the dog's body and enters Masterson. In the morning, Masterson goes to the police station and seizes a number of weapons, sparking a shootout between himself and the station's police officers as he attempts to track down "Gallagher". Convinced of "Gallagher's" story due to Masterson's immunity to excessive bullet wounds, Beck releases him from jail, and the two confront Masterson. During the resulting shootout, Masterson confirms that "Gallagher" is an alien law enforcer named Alhague who has been pursuing the alien ever since it murdered his family and his partner on another planet. When Alhague first came to Earth, he inhabited the body of Robert Stone, a park ranger, then assumed the identity of Lloyd Gallagher after the real Gallagher was killed in a fire. Though Beck manages to stop Masterson, Alhague/Gallagher reveals that his weapon cannot kill the alien when it is inside a human body; the weapon does not work on human skin, thus requiring him to be present when it is transferring hosts. They are unable to stop the alien from abandoning Masterson's body for that of Beck's partner Willis, who then escapes the station.

Using Willis' credentials, the alien tries to gain access to Senator Holt, a likely presidential candidate. Alhague/Gallagher and Beck follow Willis, and a shootout ensues between Beck and Willis. Beck is severely wounded. As Willis, the alien corners Senator Holt and enters his body before Alhague/Gallagher can stop him. "Holt" then calls a press conference and announces his candidacy for the presidency. Alhague/Gallagher is forced to attack Holt in the middle of the press conference. Though shot several times by the police and the senator's bodyguards, Alhague/Gallagher is able to get close enough to use a flamethrower on Holt. The alien emerges from Holt's charred body, shocking everybody before collapsing. Alhague/Gallagher kills it with his weapon.

Taken to the hospital where Beck is being treated, Alhague/Gallagher discovers that Beck is close to death. Witnessing the emotional suffering of Beck's wife and daughter, Alhague/Gallagher transfers his life force from Gallagher to Beck as Beck dies. When she sees her miraculously "recovered" father, Beck's daughter initially hesitates when he reaches out to her, but then smiles and takes his hand.

####The Hidden II####
The alien criminal from the first movie is dead, but he left a few eggs which are hatching now. It is explained that on the alien's homeworld, evolution took two parallel paths: half of their race became violent criminals who live only for pleasure (the squid-like alien form briefly glimpsed in the first film), and the other half evolved beyond their base desires and even physical bodies, becoming creatures of pure energy.

A good alien has been inhabiting Tom Beck's body (played now by Michael Welden). He has been waiting just in case this happened. Unfortunately, his presence in the body has taken a terrible toll on it, draining it of life energy.

Additionally, relations with Beck's daughter Juliet (Kate Hodge), now a cop herself, have deteriorated (possibly due to his bizarre behavior caused by the alien inhabiting his body). But when the killing starts again, both will need to work together—and with a new alien policeman (Raphael Sbarge), who comes to Earth to aid in the struggle—to stop the new generation of aliens.

####Highlander II: The Quickening####
In the 1990s, industrial pollution has destroyed Earth's ozone layer, leading to millions of deaths due to the sun's unfiltered rays. By 1999, MacLeod supervises a scientific team headed by Dr. Allan Neyman who create an electromagnetic shield to protect the Earth from radiation. The shield saves the Earth, but with a side-effect of condemning the planet to constant darkness, high temperatures and humidity. The shield falls under the control of the corrupt Shield Corporation and its chief executive David Blake, who imposes heavy fees on countries for continued protection from solar radiation.

In 2024, Connor MacLeod, now mortal, is a frail old man. While watching an opera performance, he has a flashback from five hundred years ago on the immortals' distant home planet of Zeist. MacLeod was chosen by Juan Sánchez-Villalobos Ramírez, a wise Zeist sorcerer, to lead a rebellion against the corrupt leadership of General Katana. Using the Quickening, Ramírez creates a bond between him and MacLeod that cannot be broken even by death. Katana and his troops then attack, crushing the rebellion and imprisoning Macleod and Ramirez. The latter two are put on trial by priests, before being exiled to Earth to live as immortals. Locked into ageless lives, they will fight each other until there is only one left. The survivor will win the Prize: a choice to either remain on Earth as a mortal or return to Zeist, their past crimes forgiven.

Awakening from his flashback MacLeod is approached by Louise Marcus, leader of an anti-shield group. Louise has uncovered the possibility that the ozone layer has returned to normal and that The Shield Corporation are keeping its restoration quiet to maintain revenue. Louise asks MacLeod to help her take down the shield, but he refuses, replying that he is too old and disapproves of terrorism. Meanwhile on Zeist, General Katana decides to have MacLeod killed and sends assassins Corda and Reno to Earth to kill him. MacLeod defeats Reno and Corda, and uses their quickenings to regain his youth and summon Ramírez back to life.

Ramírez materializes where he had died in Glencoe, Scotland. Drawn to MacLeod's location, his earring is apparently worth enough money to buy a new suit of clothes and a plane ticket to New York. General Katana also arrives on Earth, determined to kill MacLeod himself. After Ramírez finds MacLeod and Louise, the three make a plan to take down the shield.

Katana approaches the Shield Corporation and creates an uneasy alliance with David Blake to kill MacLeod. When it is discovered that Neyman has revealed proof the ozone layer has healed to MacLeod, Blake has Neyman imprisoned. MacLeod, Ramírez and Marcus break into the prison, but Neyman dies and Ramírez sacrifices his life to save MacLeod and Marcus from a trap. Katana kills Blake and MacLeod has one final confrontation with Katana. After winning the fight and decapitating Katana, MacLeod uses the combined quickening energy to disable the shield, and the world begins to see a night sky for the first time.

####Hirokin####
####Hulk (film)####

David Banner is a genetics researcher for the government trying to improve human DNA. His supervisor, Colonel Thaddeus "Thunderbolt" Ross, forbids human experimentation, so David experiments on himself. His wife, Edith, soon gives birth to their son, Bruce Banner. David realizes Bruce inherited his mutant DNA and attempts to find a cure. After discovering his experiments, Ross shuts down David's research; David rigs Desert Base's gamma reactor to explode as revenge. Believing he is dangerous, David tries to kill Bruce but accidentally murders Edith when she gets between them; the trauma makes Bruce suppress his early childhood memories. Ross arrests and sends David to a mental hospital, putting the 4-year-old Bruce into foster care. Mrs. Krenzler adopts him, and Bruce assumes the surname, growing up believing his birth parents are dead.

Thirty years later, Bruce is a brilliant scientist working at the Berkeley Lab with his ex-girlfriend and Ross's estranged daughter, Betty Ross. Representing the private research company Atheon, the shady Glenn Talbot becomes interested in the scientists' nanomeds research to create regenerating soldiers for the military-industrial complex. David reappears as a janitor in the lab building to infiltrate Bruce's life. The now-general Ross investigates, becoming concerned for Betty's safety around Bruce.

Bruce saves a colleague named Harper from an accident with a malfunctioning gammasphere. Bruce wakes in a hospital bed and tells Betty he feels better than ever, but Betty cannot fathom his survival since the nanomeds killed everything else; unknown to them, the radiation merged with Bruce's altered DNA. Later, David meets Bruce, revealing their relationship and hinting at Bruce's mutation. He later uses samples of Bruce's DNA for animal experimentation. Bruce's increasing rage from the tensions around him activates his gamma-radiated DNA; he becomes the Hulk and destroys the lab. Betty finds Bruce unconscious in his home the next day, barely remembering the previous night. Ross arrives later to question Bruce before Betty locates David to investigate him. After hours of interrogation, Ross seizes the lab and places Bruce under house arrest. David calls Bruce that night, revealing he mutated his three dogs and sicced them on Betty, enraging him. Bemoaning the lab's destruction, Talbot attacks Bruce, who transforms, injuring Talbot and Ross's MPs. The Hulk finds Betty at her forest cabin, saves her from the dogs, and changes back.

Betty calls Ross the following day; the army tranquilizes and takes Bruce to Desert Base. Deeming him doomed to follow in David's footsteps, Ross doubts helping Bruce, but Betty persuades Ross to let her try. David subjects himself to the nanomeds and gammasphere, becoming able to meld with and absorb the properties of anything he touches. Talbot wrestles control from Ross, forcing Betty to return home. Seeking to profit from the Hulk's power, Talbot fails to provoke Bruce and puts him in an isolation tank. David confronts Betty at her house, offering to surrender himself yet asking to speak to Bruce "one last time." Talbot induces a nightmare from Bruce's repressed memories and triggers a transformation. Trapping the Hulk in sticky foam, Talbot tries taking a sample of him, but the Hulk breaks free. Talbot gets killed after firing an explosive round that backfires, and Ross resumes command. The Hulk escapes the base, battles the army in the desert, and leaps to San Francisco to find Betty. She convinces Ross to take her to the Hulk, returning Bruce to normal.

Bruce and David talk at a base in the city while Ross watches, threatening to incinerate them. David has descended into megalomania, wanting Bruce's power to destroy his enemies. After Bruce refuses, David bites into a high-voltage cable absorbs the energy and mutates into a powerful electrical entity. Bruce becomes the Hulk and fights David, which only allows him to absorb his radiation. Knowing his own power is uncontrollable, The Hulk allows David to take it to the point where he can no longer handle it. They are presumed dead after Ross orders a Gamma Charge Bomb to end the battle. A year later, Ross informs Betty over the phone of possible Hulk sightings and urges her to try and get ahold of Bruce if he is alive.

In the Amazon Rainforest, Bruce lives in exile as a medical camp doctor. As the camp he is supplying medicine to gets overrun by soldiers trying to steal their supplies, Bruce warns their commander that he’s making him angry. The film ends with the Hulk heard bellowing in rage.

####The Human Race (film)####
####Humanity's End####
####The Hunger Games (film)####

The nation of Panem is divided into 12 districts, ruled from the Capitol. As punishment for a failed revolt, each district is forced to select two tributes, one boy and one girl between the ages of 12 and 18, to fight to the death in the annual Hunger Games until there is only one survivor, and the entire event is televised.

Sixteen-year-old Katniss Everdeen of District 12 volunteers to take her younger sister Primrose's place in the 74th Hunger Games. She and fellow tribute Peeta Mellark are escorted to the Capitol by their chaperone Effie Trinket and mentor Haymitch Abernathy, the Games' only living winner from District 12. Haymitch stresses the importance of gaining sponsors, as they can provide potentially life-saving gifts during the Games. While training, Katniss observes the "Careers" (Marvel, Glimmer, Cato, and Clove), volunteers from the wealthy Districts 1 and 2 who have trained for the Games from an early age. During a televised interview with Caesar Flickerman, Peeta expresses his love for Katniss, which she initially sees as an attempt to attract sponsors; she later learns his admission is genuine.

At the start of the Games, Katniss grabs some of the supplies placed around the Cornucopia, a structure at the starting point, and narrowly escapes death. Half of the 24 tributes die in the initial melee, and only 11, including all four Careers, survive the first day. Katniss tries to stay away from the others, but Seneca Crane, the Head Gamemaker, triggers a forest fire to drive her towards them. She runs into the Careers, with whom Peeta has seemingly allied, and flees up a tree. Peeta advises the Careers to wait her out. The next morning, Katniss notices Rue, District 11's young female tribute, hiding in an adjacent tree. Rue draws her attention to a nest of genetically modified venomous wasps. Using a knife, Katniss causes the nest to fall on the Careers sleeping below; Glimmer dies, but the others escape. Katniss becomes disoriented from being stung a few times. Peeta returns and tells her to flee.

Rue helps Katniss recover, and they become friends and allies. Katniss destroys the supplies the Careers stockpiled by detonating mines guarding them, while Rue provides a distraction. Katniss later finds and frees Rue from a trap, but Marvel throws a spear which impales Rue. Katniss kills him with an arrow. She comforts Rue by singing to her and, after she dies, adorns her body with flowers, triggering a riot in District 11. President Coriolanus Snow warns Crane about the unrest.

Haymitch persuades Crane to change the rules to allow two winners provided they are from the same district, suggesting that this will pacify the public. After the announcement, Katniss finds a gravely wounded Peeta. Another announcement promises that what each survivor needs the most will be provided at the Cornucopia the next morning. Despite Peeta's vehement opposition, Katniss leaves to get medicine for him, but she is ambushed and overpowered by Clove, who gloats about Rue's death and prepares to dispatch her. Thresh, District 11's male tribute, overhears and kills Clove. He spares Katniss once, for Rue's sake. The medicine heals Peeta overnight.

While hunting for food, Katniss hears a cannon go off, signaling a death. She races to Peeta, who has unwittingly collected deadly nightlock berries. They discover "Foxface", District 5's female tribute, poisoned by the nightlock she collected after watching Peeta. Crane then unleashes genetically modified beasts that kill Thresh and force Katniss, Peeta, and Cato – the last three survivors – to climb onto the Cornucopia's roof. Cato gets Peeta in a headlock and uses him as a human shield against Katniss's bow. Peeta directs Katniss to shoot Cato's hand, enabling Peeta to throw him to the beasts below. Katniss kills him with an arrow to end his suffering.

Crane then revokes the rule change allowing two victors to win. Peeta urges Katniss to shoot him, but she convinces him to eat nightlock berries together. Just before they do, Crane hastily declares them co-victors. Afterward, Haymitch warns Katniss that she has made enemies through these acts of defiance. Snow has Crane locked in a room with nightlock berries, after which the wily President considers his next move.

####The Hunger Games: Catching Fire####


Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark have settled into a life of material comfort and emotional unease back in District 12 following their joint victory in the 74th Hunger Games. President Snow visits Katniss and explains that her actions in the Games — specifically, her would-be suicide pact with Peeta — have inspired uprisings across Panem. He orders her to use the upcoming Victory Tour to convince him that her actions were out of love and not defiance against the Capitol, warning her that her friends, family, and everyone else in District 12 will otherwise face execution. Katniss' mentor, Haymitch, later warns her that Victors of the games must serve as mentors to future tributes and that their show of love will be forced to continue for the rest of their lives.

Unrest and protests are on display in many Districts over the course of the Victory Tour, as is brutality by local Peacekeepers. Peeta and Katniss subsequently announce their engagement in an attempt to quell the Districts. At an upper-class party concluding the tour, Snow publicly toasts them but subtly signals to Katniss that he remains unconvinced. During the festivities, Katniss meets enigmatic new head Gamemaker Plutarch Heavensbee. Peacekeepers led by the brutal Commander Romulus Thread begin to mercilessly raid homes and other places throughout District 12, placing the citizens under curfew. Katniss's friend Gale is publicly whipped after tackling Thread to stop him from killing civilians; he is saved by Katniss and the other victors. Heavensbee tells Snow that the rebellion cannot survive Katniss’ new celebrity status as a victor.

The upcoming 75th Hunger Games - the third "Quarter Quell" — is announced, with tributes set to be selected from previous victors. Katniss devotes herself to ensuring Peeta survives. On Reaping Day, Haymitch's name is drawn, but Peeta immediately volunteers to take his place. The adult tributes, accustomed to a safe and comfortable life as victors, are openly angry about being forced to return to the Games. For her pre-Games interview, Katniss wears a wedding dress, as ordered by Snow, but her stylist Cinna sets it to transform into a symbol of a mockingjay. As an effort to stop the games, Peeta lies during his interview, saying that he and Katniss have married in secret and are expecting a child, which leads to fruitless protests from citizens for the Games to be stopped. Just before Katniss enters the arena, Cinna is beaten to death by Peacekeepers in front of her as punishment for tampering with her dress.

In the Games, Katniss and Peeta ally themselves with the District 4 tributes, playboy Finnick Odair and his elderly mentor Mags. When the arena's forcefield shocks Peeta, stopping his heart, Finnick resuscitates him. The group is later forced to flee from a poisonous fog; when Peeta cannot go on, Mags sacrifices herself so that Finnick can help him. The group discovers that water removes the gas-induced blisters. When mandrills attack, Peeta is saved by the unexpected sacrifice of a drug-addicted tribute from District 6. The group escapes to the beach, where they meet up with Beetee and Wiress, a pair of scientist tributes from District 3, and acerbic District 7 tribute Johanna Mason. Wiress, who has suffered a nervous breakdown, repeats the phrase "tick-tock", leading Katniss to realize that the arena is designed like a clock, with regular hazards each hour contained within their respective zones. Wiress's throat is slit by Gloss, one of the Careers from District 1. Gloss is then fatally shot by Katniss while Johanna kills his sister, Cashmere. Finnick is injured by another Career. Heavensbee has the Gamemakers spin the clock to disorient the tributes.

Beetee suggests luring the rest of the Careers to the wet beach and electrocuting them, taking advantage of the lightning that strikes every 12 hours. The group separates to prepare the trap, laying down wire. When District 2 tributes Brutus and Enobaria emerge, Johanna stuns Katniss, cuts the tracker out of her arm and flees. Katniss finds an unconscious Beetee. Unable to find Peeta, and hearing a cannon, Katniss almost kills Finnick, thinking he betrayed them, but he reminds her to "remember who the real enemy is". Katniss attaches wire to an arrow and shoots it into the arena roof just as lightning strikes. The lightning is conducted along the wire, causing the arena shields to fail and the roof to fall, and Katniss is knocked unconscious.

Katniss awakens in an aircraft with Haymitch, Finnick, a still-unconscious Beetee, and Heavensbee, who is revealed to be a rebel against Snow. Haymitch tells her they are bound for District 13, headquarters of the new rebellion. He reveals that half the tributes were in on a plan to rescue Katniss, a symbol of the growing rebellion, but that Peeta and Johanna have been captured by the Capitol. They thought it would have been better for her not to know due to Snow watching her. An enraged Katniss is sedated after attempting to attack Haymitch for violating his promise to save Peeta. She awakens to find Gale by her side, who reassures her that her family is safe but that District 12 has been destroyed by the Capitol.

####Hunter Prey####
####Hydra (film)####
Young archaeologist Dr. Valerie Cammon (Polly Shannon) and her colleague Dr. Kim (Philip Moon) go by ship to a volcanic island in the Mediterranean sea. While she seeks relics in a cave, a seaquake sinks their ship without survivors. At about the same time all archaeologists except for Dr. Cammon get eaten by the re-awakened ancient Lernaean Hydra.

During the tempest, a whole island disappears. Two months later, Vincent (Alex McArthur) and Dixie Camden (Jana Williams) intended to organize a man-hunt for cranky millionaires. Their Captain (Michael Shamus Wiles), unaware of the Hydra, suggests the nearby, aforementioned island as a substitute.

Four ex-convicts, Tim Nolan (George Stults), Gwen Russell (Dawn Olivieri), Bob Crick (James Wlcek) and Ronnie Kaplan (Texas Battle), are marooned at the shore and given 24 hours' headstart.

The following day the rich hunters (played by Paul Rae, Roark Critchlow, Ricco Ross and William Gregory Lee) arrive, having been informed that their targets are responsible for various crimes similar to their personal losses in their lives (Kaplan killed a woman in a drunk driving crash, Crick raped and murdered another woman, and Gwen hired a hitman to kill her husband, although Nolan was randomly selected as the intended fourth victim had a heart attack during the abduction). However, the hunters attract the Hydra's attention and get eaten. The same fate befalls some of the fugitives.

Dr. Cammon runs into the surviving fugitives and helps Tim to find the magic sword of Hercules. As Dr. Cammon tries to distract the Hydra, Tim gets the sword so he can now fight the beast, but, sadly, he retrieves the sword too late and Dr. Cammon is torn apart and eaten by the Hydra. Tim manages to cut off its heads for good, but fails to cut the last head completely off. With Dr. Cammon dead, the remaining fugitives are forced to go on without her help.

Eventually, the only ones left are Tim and Gwen and they return to the ship, not knowing that the Hydra has recovered and is following them. Now only one-headed, it can move like a snake and makes its way into the belly of the ship.

Gwen wants to use the radio for calling SOS but the microphone is damaged. Mr. Camden blindsides her and blackmails Tim. The Hydra kills Camden from behind, then devours Dixie. Tim grabs the magic sword again and this time, he really kills the monster.

####Hypnotic (2023 film)####
####I Am Legend (film)####


An attempt to genetically re-engineer the measles virus to cure cancer becomes lethal, infecting 99% of the world's population, turning those it does not kill into vampiric, albino, cannibalistic mutants called Darkseekers, who are extremely vulnerable to sunlight and prey on the few who are left unaffected.

Three years after the outbreak, in 2012, U.S. Army virologist LTC Robert Neville lives an isolated life in deserted Manhattan, unsure if any other uninfected humans are left. Neville's daily routine includes experimenting on infected rats to find a cure for the virus, searching for food and supplies, and waiting each day for any survivors who might respond to his continuous recorded radio broadcasts, which instruct them to meet him at midday at the South Street Seaport. Flashbacks reveal his wife, Zoe, and daughter, Marley, died in a helicopter accident during the chaotic evacuation of Manhattan as the military was enforcing a quarantine of the island. Neville himself stayed behind with other military personnel. Neville's only companion is his German Shepherd Samantha (Sam) and to cope with his loneliness, he regularly "talks" to some mannequins and the characters on film recordings from video stores. At night, he barricades himself with Sam inside his heavily fortified Washington Square Park home to hide from the Darkseekers.

One day as Neville hunts a deer, Sam pursues it into a dark building. Neville cautiously goes in after her and locates the deer's corpse along with Sam, but discovers the building is infested with Darkseekers. Both escape unharmed and the attacking Darkseekers are killed by the sunlight.<!--all edits to trap section need to be WP:SYNTH free. Please do not speculate on who set the second trap and motives of the infected-->
Neville finds a promising treatment derived from his own blood, so he sets a snare trap and captures a female Darkseeker. A male Darkseeker attempts to pursue them but is halted by the sunlight and returns to the shadows. Back in his laboratory in the basement of his house, Neville treats the female seemingly without success.

The next day, Neville notices "Fred", a mannequin usually at the local video store, positioned outside Grand Central Terminal and shoots him in confusion. However, Neville realizes he is being watched by the Darkseekers from within nearby buildings. As he approaches Fred's body, he is ensnared in a trap similar to the one he used to capture the female (set by the Darkseekers) and is rendered unconscious after hitting his head. By the time he wakes up the sun is setting and he is attacked by infected dogs. Neville and Sam eliminate them, but Sam is bitten during the fight. Neville injects her with a strand of his serum, but when she shows signs of infection, Neville is forced to strangle her to death as she begins to turn. Heartbroken and driven by rage, Neville ventures out and deliberately attacks a group of Darkseekers the following night, before he is rescued by a pair of immune humans, Anna and a young boy named Ethan, who have traveled from Maryland after hearing his broadcast.

They transport the injured Neville back to his home, where Anna explains they survived the outbreak aboard a Red Cross evacuation ship from São Paulo, and are making their way to a survivors' camp in Bethel, Vermont. Neville argues no such survivors' camp exists. As he continues working to cure the female Darkseeker, Neville theorizes by lowering her body temperature with ice, he can increase the treatment's potency. The next night, a group of Darkseekers, who tracked Anna and Neville the night before, invade the house. Neville, Anna, and Ethan retreat into the basement laboratory sealing themselves in with the female test subject.

####I Am Number Four (film)####
John Smith is an alien from the planet Lorien. He was sent to Earth as a child with eight others, collectively called the Garde, to escape the invading Mogadorians, who destroyed Lorien. John is protected by a guardian (who are known as Cêpan), Henri, and has developed powers, including enhanced strength, speed and agility.

The Mogadorians, led by Commander Setrakus Ra, learn about the nine children and travel to Earth. The Garde can only be killed in sequence; Number One through Number Nine. Three of them are already dead, with John being Number Four. Knowing this, he and Henri move from a beachside bungalow in Florida to an old farm in Paradise, Ohio, where John befriends conspiracy theorist Sam Goode and a Beagle which he names Bernie Kosar. He also falls for an amateur photographer, Sarah Hart. Her ex-boyfriend, football player Mark James, is a bully who torments both John and Sam.

During the Spring Scream Festival, Mark and his friends chase Sarah and John into the woods. When they attack, John uses his powers to fend them off and rescue Sarah. Sam witnesses this, which leads John to reveal his true origins. The next day, Mark's father, the local sheriff, interrogates Henri on John's whereabouts when his son and his friends were attacked. Henri tells John that too many people are suspicious and they have to leave. John refuses because of Sarah.

The Mogadorians continue searching for John, while being trailed by Number Six, who is also trying to locate Number Four. Number Six's guardian was killed, and she realizes that the remaining six Garde will have to team up and fight against the Mogadorians.

The Mogadorians locate John and manipulate two conspiracy theorists into capturing Henri. When John and Sam go to rescue Henri, they have to fend off an attack by the Mogadorians. Henri dies, while John and Sam escape with some Lorien artefacts, including a blue rock that acts as a tracking device for other Garde. Sam's father, a conspiracy theorist who disappeared while hunting aliens in Mexico, had another of the rocks. While Sam searches for it, John tries to say goodbye to Sarah at a party, only to discover that the Mogadorians have framed him and Henri for the murders of the conspiracy theorists. Mark sees John and calls his father, who corners John and Sarah. John saves Sarah from a fall, revealing his powers, and they escape to their school.

Setrakus Ra arrives in Paradise, with a convoy of trucks. He is confronted by Mark and his father, and after injuring the sheriff, he forces Mark to show him where John is hiding, which Mark has deduced is the school.

John, Sarah, and Sam are attacked by the Mogadorians, who brought two Piken to hunt the trio. They are saved by Number Six and Bernie, who is actually a shapeshifting Chimera sent by John's biological parents to protect him. John and Number Six, who can turn invisible and can block energy attacks, continue to fight the Mogadorians. They eventually defeat them all, including Setrakus Ra.

The following day, John and Number Six unite their blue rocks and discover the location of the other four surviving Garde. John lets Sam come with them in hopes of finding Sam's father. They set off to find the others so they can protect Earth from the Mogadorians, leaving Sarah and a repentant Mark, who lies to his father about John's whereabouts. Mark also returns a magic box left to John by his Dad, that was in police evidence. John thanks Mark and promises Sarah that he will come back to her. While they share a goodbye kiss, Mark is visibly resigned to their relationship. John, Sam, Bernie and Number Six drive off, vowing to protect Earth.

####I Come in Peace####
####I, Frankenstein####
In 1795, Doctor Victor Frankenstein creates a monster by putting together parts of corpses and reanimating them. Horrified by his creation, Frankenstein tries to destroy it, but the monster survives and murders his wife Elizabeth. Frankenstein chases it to the Arctic, but he succumbs to the cold weather. When the monster returns home to bury Frankenstein, it is attacked by demons, but is then rescued by two gargoyles, Ophir and Keziah. They bring it to a cathedral, where the monster meets the gargoyle queen Leonore and her second-in-command Gideon. Leonore explains that they were created by the Archangel Michael to battle demons on Earth and protect humanity. She names the creature "Adam" and invites him to join them, but he declines and chooses to depart. He is given baton-like weapons to protect himself, as more demons will come after him. The weapons allow him to "descend" demons (destroying their bodies and trapping their souls in Hell) as they have the symbol of the Gargoyle Order carved on them.

For the next two hundred years, Adam lives apart from society, killing any demon that pursues him and hiding from them. Deciding to rejoin society in the modern-day, Adam looks for and confronts a group of demons. During the fight, a police officer is accidentally killed. This causes Adam to be summoned by the gargoyles once more and they decide to imprison him as punishment. A demon Helek, who survived Adam's attack, reports to his leader, the demon prince Naberius, that Adam is alive. Naberius has disguised himself as billionaire businessman Charles Wessex and employs scientists Terra Wade and Carl Avery to conduct experiments to try to reanimate corpses. He sends a group of demons led by his most formidable warrior, Zuriel, to attack the gargoyles' cathedral and capture Adam so he can unlock the secret to resurrecting the dead.

In the attack, many demons are slain and 16 gargoyles, including Ophir and Keziah, are "ascended" (returned to and trapped in Heaven), but Zuriel sneaks in and captures Leonore and takes her to an abandoned theater. Adam interrogates a demon who tells him that they lured the gargoyles out in order to capture Leonore so they can force the gargoyles to trade Adam for her. Gideon is instructed to trade Adam to them; however, Adam escapes after the attack. Without Adam, Gideon instead offers to trade Frankenstein's journal for Leonore, which was found on Doctor Victor Frankenstein's body on the night they found him. At the theater, Gideon gives Zuriel the journal and Leonore is spared. Adam follows Zuriel to the Wessex Institute, where he discovers thousands of corpses underground and learns that Naberius plans to recreate Frankenstein's experiment by reanimating the corpses and using them as hosts for the descended demons so he can rebuild his armies and destroy humanity. Adam retrieves the journal from Terra and escapes the demons. He later tracks down Terra and asks for her help. The two are then attacked by Zuriel, where Adam fights him and manages to descend him.

Adam warns the remaining gargoyles of Naberius' plan, agreeing to give them the journal if they get him and Terra to safety. Leonore agrees and when Adam leaves, she secretly sends Gideon to kill him after he retrieves the journal. After a violent fight, Adam ascends Gideon and then decides to burn Frankenstein's journal and destroy its secrets before the gargoyles come after him. Luring them out of the cathedral, Adam leads them to the Wessex Institute, where they descend Naberius's right-hand man Dekar and then battle more demons. In the ensuing battle, Adam goes into the institute to rescue Terra, who had been kidnapped by Naberius and forced to begin the process of reanimating the corpses. Naberius overpowers Adam and tries to have one of the demon spirits possess him, but it doesn't work because Adam has developed a soul of his own. Adam carves the Gargoyle Order symbol on Naberius, descending him to Hell. The institute collapses and falls into an abyss, where all the demons and all the possessed corpses are destroyed and Naberius' plan is thwarted. Leonore rescues Adam and Terra from falling into the abyss as well and they return to the cathedral.

Leonore forgives Adam for Gideon's death and Adam bids farewell to Terra. In the ending scene, Adam narrates that he will continue defending the world from demons as he declares himself “Frankenstein.”

####I, Robot (film)####
####Ignition (film)####
####Impostor (2001 film)####
The film takes place in 2079. Forty-five years earlier, Earth was attacked by a hostile and implacable alien civilization from Alpha Centauri. Force field domes are put in place to protect cities, and a totalitarian global military government is established to effect the war and the survival of humans. The Centaurians have never been physically seen.

The film follows Spencer Olham (Gary Sinise), a designer of top-secret government weapons. One day while on his way to work, he is arrested by Major Hathaway (Vincent D'Onofrio) of the Earth Security Administration (ESA), being identified as a replicant created by the aliens. The ESA intercepted an alien transmission which cryptanalysts decoded as programming Olham's target to be the Chancellor, whom he was scheduled to meet. Such replicants are perfect biological copies of existing humans, complete with transplanted memories, and do not know they are replicants. Each has a powerful "U-bomb" in their chest in the exact design of a human heart, which can only be detected by dissection or a high-tech medical scan, since it only arms itself and detonates when it gets in close proximity to its target. Detection via the special scan works by comparing against a previous scan, if there was one.

Major Hathaway begins interrogating Olham. As Hathaway is about to drill out Olham's chest to find the bomb, Olham breaks loose and escapes, accidentally killing his friend Nelson (Tony Shalhoub) in the process. With the help of underground stalker Cale (Mekhi Phifer), Olham avoids capture and sneaks into the hospital where his wife Maya (Madeleine Stowe) is an administrator to get the high-tech scan redone and prove he's not a replicant. But the scan is interrupted by security forces before it can deliver the answer.

That evening, after fleeing from the city, Olham and Maya are eventually captured by Hathaway's troops in a forest near an alien crash site, close to the spot where they spent a romantic weekend just a week or so before Olham's arrest. Inside the ship they discover the corpse of the real Maya, and Hathaway shoots and kills the replicant before she can detonate. Hathaway thinks he has killed the true impostor, but as his men move debris away from the Centauri ship, the real Spencer Olham's body is revealed. At that moment, Olham realizes aloud that both Maya and himself really are alien replicants, and the secondary trigger (his awareness of what he truly is) detonates his U-bomb, destroying himself, Hathaway, his troops, and everything else in a wide area in a fiery nuclear explosion.

In the final scene, the news announces that Hathaway and the Olhams were killed in an alien enemy attack, implying that the government covered up or are unaware of the truth. Cale wonders if he ever really knew Olham's true identity.

####In Time####
In 2169, people are genetically engineered to stop aging on their 25th birthday.  Everyone has a timer on their forearm that shows their remaining time, when it reaches zero the person "times out" and dies instantly. Time has become the universal currency, transferred directly between people or stored in capsules.  The country is divided into areas called Time Zones; Dayton is the poorest, a ghetto where people rarely have over 24 hours on their clocks.  The richest area is New Greenwich, where people are wealthy enough to be effectively immortal.

Will Salas is a factory worker who lives in Dayton with his mother Rachel. One night, he rescues a drunken man named Henry Hamilton from time thieves Fortis and his gang the Minutemen. While hiding, Hamilton reveals to Will that the people of New Greenwich hoard most of the time while constantly increasing prices to keep poorer people dying. The following day, he transfers all but five minutes of his time to a sleeping Will before deliberately timing out and dying.  Raymond Leon, the leader of the police-like Timekeepers, assumes that Will killed Hamilton and pursues him.

Will visits his friend Borel, who warns him against having so much time in Dayton.  He gives Borel ten years, one for each year of their friendship.  Will then sets off to meet his mother, intending to take her with him to New Greenwich.  His mother runs short of time and can't afford bus fare, she is forced to run to meet Will but times out and dies in his arms.  Heartbroken and angry, Will vows to avenge his mother's death by taking the people of New Greenwich for everything they have.

Arriving in New Greenwich, Will meets time-loaning businessman Philippe Weis and his daughter Sylvia at a casino. While playing poker, Will wins over a millennium while nearly timing himself out.  He catches Sylvia's eye and she invites him to a party.  Will is confronted at the party by Timekeeper Leon and arrested. Leon confiscates all but two hours of Will's time, disbelieving that Will didn't kill Hamilton.

Will escapes and takes Sylvia to Dayton as a hostage, but Fortis' gang ambushes and robs them, leaving them with 30 minutes each. Will attempts to get some time back from Borel, but his wife Greta tearfully explains that he has drunk himself to death. They manage to get a day each by selling Sylvia's earrings at a pawn shop. Will then calls Weis to demand a 1,000-year ransom to be paid to the people in Dayton in exchange for Sylvia's safe return. Weis refuses and Will releases Sylvia just as Timekeeper Leon finds Will.  Sylvia shoots Leon in the arm and Will gives him enough time to survive until the other Timekeepers arrive.  Will and Sylvia steal Leon's car and use it to pull over a New Greenwich resident, whom they rob of her time.

Will and Sylvia rob Weis' time banks, giving the time capsules to the needy.  They  soon realize they can't significantly change anything, as prices are raised faster to compensate for the extra time. Fortis' gang ambushes them intending to collect the reward for their capture, but Will kills Fortis and his gang. Will and Sylvia then decide to rob Weis' vault of a one-million year capsule. Leon chases them back to Dayton but fails to stop them from distributing the stolen time; Leon times out, having neglected to collect his day's salary. Will and Sylvia nearly time out themselves but survive by taking Leon's salary.

TV reports show factories in Dayton shutting down as everyone has enough time and abandons their jobs. Having seen the consequences of his obsession with the pair, Leon's colleague Jaeger orders the Timekeepers to return home. Will and Sylvia progress to larger banks, still trying to crash the system.

####Inception####
####Independence Day (1996 film)####

On July 2, 1996, an enormous extraterrestrial mothership enters Earth's orbit and deploys multiple saucers, each convert|15|mi|km|abbr=off|sp=us wide, over major cities worldwide, including New York City, Los Angeles and Washington, D.C..

U.S. Marine Captain Steven Hiller and his unit, the Black Knights fighter squadron out of MCAS El Toro, are called back from fourth of July liberty to defend Los Angeles; his girlfriend, Jasmine Dubrow, decides to flee the city with her son, Dylan. Retired combat pilot Russell Casse, now an alcoholic single stepfather and crop duster, sees this as vindication of the alien abduction he has been claiming for years. In New York City, David Levinson, an MIT-trained satellite technician, decodes a signal embedded within global satellite transmissions, realizing it is the aliens' countdown for a coordinated attack. With help from his ex-wife, White House Communications Director Constance Spano, David and his father Julius reach the Oval Office and alert President Thomas Whitmore.

Whitmore orders evacuations of the targeted cities in the US, but it is too late. Each saucer fires a destructive beam, incinerating all of the targeted cities, killing millions. Whitmore, the Levinsons and a few others escape aboard Air Force One while Jasmine, Dylan, and their dog Boomer take shelter in a tunnel's inspection alcove, emerging once the destruction is over.

On July 3, counterattacks against the invaders are thwarted by the alien warships' force fields. Each saucer launches a swarm of shielded fighters which decimate the human fighter squadrons and military bases including Captain Hiller's. Hiller lures an enemy fighter into the Grand Canyon before ejecting from his plane, blinding the fighter using his parachute and causing the alien to crash in the Mojave Desert. He subdues the downed alien and flags down a convoy of refugees, transporting the alien to Area 51, where Whitmore's group has landed.

Defense Secretary Albert Nimzicki reveals that a government faction has been involved in a UFO conspiracy since 1947 when one of the invaders' fighters crashed in Roswell. Area 51 houses the now-refurbished ship and three alien corpses recovered from the crash. As chief scientist Dr. Brackish Okun examines the alien captured by Steven, it awakens, telepathically invades Okun's mind and launches a psychic attack against Whitmore before it is killed by Secret Service agents and military personnel. Whitmore reveals what he learned when they linked: the invaders plan to annihilate Earth's inhabitants and steal their natural resources, as they have done to other planets before them.

Whitmore reluctantly authorizes a trial nuclear attack against a saucer above Houston, but the ship survives. Jasmine and Dylan commandeer a highway maintenance truck and rescue a handful of survivors, including a critically injured First Lady Marilyn Whitmore. Though Hiller rescued them  and taken to Area 51, Marilyn dies shortly after reuniting with her family.

On July 4, taking inspiration from his father, David writes a computer virus from his laptop to disrupt the aliens' shields' operating system and devises a plan to upload it into the mothership from the refurbished alien fighter, which Hiller volunteers to pilot. The U.S. military contacts surviving airborne squadrons around the world through Morse code to organize a united counter-offensive. Lacking pilots, Whitmore and General William Grey enlist volunteers with flight experience, including Russell Casse, from the refugee camp at the base to fly the remaining jets at Area 51; Whitmore leads an attack on a saucer bearing down on the base, overseen by Grey.

Hiller marries Jasmine with David and Constance in attendance before Hiller and David leave on the mission. Entering the mothership, they upload the virus and deploy a nuclear missile, destroying it and the aliens' massing invasion forces. With the aliens' shields deactivated, Whitmore's squadron engages the enemy fighters, but exhausts their ammunition before they can destroy the saucer. As the saucer prepares to fire on the base, Russell's last missile is unable to fire; he sacrifices himself by crashing into the saucer's weapon, destroying the warship. The US Military notified the resistances worldwide of the alien ships' critical weakness and destroyed the others. As humanity rejoices, Hiller and Levinson reunite with their families.

####Independence Day: Resurgence####

Twenty years after the War of 1996,efn|As depicted in "Independence Day" (1996) the United Nations has founded the Earth Space Defense (ESD), a global defense advanced research program that reverse-engineers alien technology and serves as Earth's alert system against extraterrestrial threats. Civilization has been restored and relative peace among nations exists following the human race's victory over the aliens' attacks, and major cities around the world including Washington D.C. were rebuilt and modernized with amalgamated technologies. After establishing Area 51 as its headquarters, the ESD set up bases on the Moon, Mars, and Rhea, a moon of Saturn, and orbital defense satellites above Earth, as fortifications against future invasions.

ESD Director David Levinson meets with warlord Dikembe Umbutu and Dr. Catherine Marceaux in the African state Republique Nationale d'Umbutu. They travel to a landed alien saucer and discover that the aliens were drilling before then sending a distress signal to their homeworld prior to their defeat. It is revealed that people such as former U.S. President Thomas Whitmore, Dr. Brackish Okun, and Umbutu are telepathically linked to the aliens' collective consciousness, following personal encounters, and have visions of an unidentified spherical object.

An unidentified spherical ship emerges from a wormhole near Earth's Moon. Despite objections from Levinson, it is destroyed on the orders of the Security Council. Defying orders, American pilots Jake Morrison and Charlie Miller then collect Levinson, Marceaux, Umbutu, and U.S. federal controller Floyd Rosenberg on a space tug. They head for the wreckage in the Van de Graaff crater, where they recover a large container. An alien mothership, 3000 miles in diameter suddenly appears,<ref name="Space" /> responding to the distress call, and proceeds to destroy much of Earth's planetary defense systems before landing over the North Atlantic Ocean, where it starts to drill down toward Earth's molten core for fuel that will destroy the planet in the process. Narrowly escaping death, those on board the space tug avoided capture and return to Area 51.

Whitmore, Levinson, and U.S. General Joshua Adams' groups interrogate one of the aliens held in captivity at Area 51's prison facility from the war. They learn that the aliens exist in a hivemind and that one of their colossal Queens is commanding the invasion. Realizing that they had killed a supervising Queen above Earth during the first invasion, Levinson hypothesizes that if they kill this one, her forces will cease drilling and go dormant. An ESD aerial fleet, led by Captain Dylan Hiller, stages a counterattack, but they are ambushed within the mothership, leaving only a few survivors, including Dylan, Jake, Charlie, and fellow ESD lieutenant and Chinese pilot Rain Lao.

In Area 51, Okun opens the rescued container and releases a giant white sphere of virtual intelligence. The sphere reveals that her mission is to evacuate survivors to a planet of refugees from other worlds targeted by the aliens, whom she calls "Harvesters", and unite them in an attack on the Harvesters' planet. In the mothership, all surviving ESD pilots manage to escape by hijacking enemy craft; Dylan, Jake, Charlie, and Rain navigate two Harvester fighters to pursue the Queen's personal ship, which is heading to Area 51 to extract information from the sphere about the refugee planet.

Knowing that the Harvester Queen has become aware of the sphere's location, the ESD hides her in an isolation chamber and uses a decoy in Jake's space tug to lure the Harvester Queen's ship into a trap. Whitmore volunteers to pilot the transport ship on a suicide mission, leading the Queen's ship into a trap before detonating a bomb, thus destroying the enemy ship by sacrificing himself. However, the Harvester Queen survives by using an energy shield and a battle breaks out. During the engagement, when the Harvester Queen lowers her shield to fire her own weapon, a critical hit by Whitmore's daughter Patricia deactivates her shield. This allows Dylan's party, which arrives just in time, to kill her before she can take the sphere.

With the Queen gone, all the remaining alien fighters are rendered inactive while the mothership stops drilling and retreats to space. Okun reveals that the sphere has asked humanity to lead her resistance and has offered them new technology in preparation for a potential counterattack on the Harvesters' homeworld.

####Independents' Day####
The alien Orions attack the planet as humans are deemed too violent. After blowing up many of the Earth's capital cities, they then heal many of the sick and offer to transport them; those who are hungry and others who wanted to go to another planet and many of the earthlings volunteer to go. An "Earth First" militia forms to fight the aliens, while the US Vice President (as the aliens have killed the President) negotiates with the aliens. The plot was noted to be convoluted.

####Infinite (film)####


In 1985 Mexico City, Heinrich Treadway tries to escape the authorities and a man, Bathurst. He and his associates, Abel and Leona speak about "the Egg", which Treadway stole from Bathurst. Treadway tells Abel that if he does not survive, the latter must remember to "look inside". He drives off a bridge, jumping from his car in mid-air and onto a crane 150 feet away. However, Treadway watches helplessly as Bathurst arrives and kills Abel and Leona.

In 2020 New York City, Evan McCauley suffers from schizophrenia. Because of past institutionalization and violent behavior, he cannot get a job. Needing meds, he forges a katana for a local gangster, even though he was never trained as a bladesmith. After the deal goes south, Evan makes his escape but is later arrested. A man at the police station introduces himself as Bathurst, and claims they have known each other for centuries.

Nora Brightman bursts into the room, and helps Evan escape. She explains that about 500 individuals, known as the Infinites, can remember all their past lives. They're divided between two groups:  the Believers, including Nora, who want to make the world better, and the Nihilists, including Bathurst, who want to exterminate all life on Earth. The Nihilists have developed weapons to prevent people from being reborn, and trap their souls inside computer chips, and they developed an egg shaped weapon that will destroy all life on Earth, although Evan (Treadway's reincarnation) stole and hid the egg during his past life.

Nora (Leona's reincarnation) explains that most Infinites remember their past lives around puberty, which is why Evan was diagnosed schizophrenic. But Evan struggles to regain Treadway's memories, as a result of trauma endured from accidents earlier in life. However, another Infinite named the Artisan has a machine that restores Evan's memories.

He hid the egg inside his past body, shortly before Bathurst killed him.

Bathurst overhears this, gets Evan's old body, and finds the egg. But before he can detonate it, the Believers get the egg back, trap Bathurst's soul inside a computer chip, and free the souls of all their comrades whom Bathurst had trapped in computer chips, including Abel's. Although Evan and Nora die in the process.

Years later, Nora and Abel are reborn and they meet at the Beginning. Evan is reborn in Jakarta, Indonesia. Artisan, now older, visits him and offers a katana to the younger Evan, who regains his memories upon recognizing him.

####Interceptor Force 2####
Over Grozny, Russia, a pair of fighter jets chase down an unidentified spacecraft moving at supersonic speeds. Within minutes, it is the jets that are chased and eventually blasted out of the sky by the spacecraft. Minutes later, residents report a "meteor" flying past the city and landing somewhere in the distant hills. Jack Bavaro, head of the Alpha Force, calls in Lieutenant Sean Lambert, the sole survivor of the first Alpha mission four years ago in Mexico. Lambert's entire team was killed while trying to capture a single specimen of extraterrestrial life. Now Weber wants Lambert to take a new team of interceptors into Russia to capture this new alien specimen.

Lambert and the Alpha Force fly to Grozny. The new team consists of science officer Dawn DeSilva and  German Special Ops soldiers Bjorn Hatch, Nathan McAllister and Adriana Sikes. They find the wreckage of the alien spacecraft outside a Russian nuclear plant. Holes blasted in the razor fencing and thick concrete walls suggest the alien is inside.

The Alpha Force enters the nuclear plant and seal off the exits, creating a trap for the alien. But then, one by one, the team is killed off by a creature that possesses a laser weapon, can change its appearance, and can also regenerate itself completely from a single piece of alien tissue. Additionally, the alien has found a way to explode all the uranium fuel rods in the nuclear plant to create a lethal radiation cloud over Europe that will quickly spread and cover the rest of the world. Lambert and the remaining Alpha Force have 60 minutes to save themselves, and the Earth, from nuclear doom.

####The Iron Giant####
####Iron Man (2008 film)####
Tony Stark, who has inherited the defense contractor Stark Industries from his late father Howard Stark, is in war-torn Afghanistan with his friend and military liaison, Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes, to demonstrate the new "Jericho" missile. After the demonstration, his convoy is ambushed and Stark is critically wounded by a missile used by the attackers—one of his company's own. He is captured and imprisoned in a cave by a terrorist group called the Ten Rings. Yinsen, a fellow captive and doctor, implants an electromagnet into Stark's chest to keep the shrapnel shards that wounded him from reaching his heart and killing him. Ten Rings leader Raza offers Stark freedom in exchange for building a Jericho missile for the group, but he and Yinsen believe that Raza will not keep his word.

Stark and Yinsen secretly build a small, powerful electric generator called an arc reactor to power Stark's electromagnet and a prototype suit of powered armor to aid in their escape. Although they keep the suit hidden almost to completion, the Ten Rings discover their hostages' intentions and attack the workshop. Yinsen sacrifices himself to divert them while the suit powers up. The armored Stark battles his way out of the cave to find the dying Yinsen, then burns the Ten Rings' weapons and flies away, crashing in the desert and destroying the suit. After being rescued by Rhodes, Stark returns home and announces that his company will cease manufacturing weapons. Obadiah Stane, his father's old partner and the company's manager, advises Stark that this may ruin Stark Industries and his father's legacy. In his home workshop, Stark builds a sleeker, more powerful version of his improvised armor suit as well as a more powerful arc reactor for it and his chest. Personal assistant Pepper Potts places the original reactor inside a small glass showcase. Though Stane requests details, a suspicious Stark decides to keep his work to himself.

At a charity event held by Stark Industries, reporter Christine Everhart informs Stark that his company's weapons were recently delivered to the Ten Rings and are being used to attack Yinsen's home village, Gulmira. Stark dons his new armor and flies to Afghanistan, where he saves the villagers. While flying home, Stark is attacked by two F-22 Raptors. He reveals his secret identity to Rhodes over the phone in an attempt to end the attack. Meanwhile, the Ten Rings gather the pieces of Stark's prototype suit and meet with Stane, who has been trafficking arms to the Ten Rings and has staged a coup to replace Stark as Stark Industries' CEO by hiring the Ten Rings to kill him. He subdues Raza and has the rest of the group killed. Stane has a massive new suit reverse-engineered from the wreckage. Seeking to track his company's illegal shipments, Stark sends Potts to hack into its database. She discovers that Stane hired the Ten Rings to kill Stark, but the group reneged when they realized they had a direct route to Stark's weapons. Potts meets with Agent Phil Coulson of S.H.I.E.L.D., an intelligence agency, to inform him of Stane's activities.

Stane's scientists cannot duplicate Stark's miniaturized arc reactor, so Stane ambushes Stark at his home and steals the one from his chest. Stark manages to replace it with his original reactor. Potts and several S.H.I.E.L.D. agents attempt to arrest Stane, but he dons his suit and attacks them. Stark fights Stane but is outmatched without his new reactor to run his suit at full capacity. The fight carries Stark and Stane to the top of the Stark Industries building, where Stark instructs Potts to overload the large arc reactor powering the building. This unleashes a massive electrical surge that causes Stane and his armor to fall into the exploding reactor, killing him. The next day, at a press conference, Stark publicly admits to being the superhero the press has dubbed "Iron Man".

In a post-credits scene, S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury visits Stark at home, telling him that Iron Man is not "the only superhero in the world", and explaining that he wants to discuss the "Avenger Initiative".

####Iron Man 2####
####Iron Man 3####

At a New Year's Eve party in 1999, Tony Stark meets scientist Maya Hansen, the inventor of Extremis, an experimental regenerative treatment that allows recovery from crippling injuries. Disabled scientist Aldrich Killian offers them a place in his company Advanced Idea Mechanics, but Stark rejects him. Thirteen years later, Stark is suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and has frequent panic attacks due to his experiences during the alien invasion of New York.efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012)<ref name="CapTWSSynopsis1" /> He has built dozens of new Iron Man suits to cope with his insomnia, creating friction with his girlfriend Pepper Potts.

Meanwhile, a string of bombings is claimed by a terrorist known as the Mandarin. Stark's security chief Happy Hogan is badly injured in one such attack and is put into a coma, prompting Stark to issue a televised threat to the Mandarin, revealing his home address in the process. The Mandarin sends gunship helicopters to destroy Stark's home. Hansen, who came to warn Stark, survives the attack with Potts. Stark escapes in an experimental new Iron Man suit, which his artificial intelligence J.A.R.V.I.S. pilots to rural Tennessee, following a flight plan from Stark's investigation into the Mandarin. Stark's new armor is not fully functional and lacks sufficient power to return to Malibu, leaving the world to believe that he died.

With the help of Harley Keener, a local boy, Stark investigates the remains of a local explosion bearing the hallmarks of a Mandarin attack, although it occurred years before any known attack by the terrorist. He discovers the "bombings" were triggered by soldiers subjected to Extremis whose bodies explosively rejected the treatment. These explosions were falsely attributed to a terrorist plot to cover up Extremis' flaws. Stark witnesses Extremis firsthand when Mandarin agents Savin and Brandt attack him: Stark kills Brandt and incapacitates Savin. Meanwhile, Killian resurfaces and kidnaps Potts with assistance from Hansen. American intelligence agencies continue to search for the Mandarin, with James Rhodes—the former War Machine, now re-branded as the Iron Patriot—lured into a trap to steal his armor.

Tracing the Mandarin to Miami, Stark infiltrates his headquarters using improvised weapons. Inside, he discovers the Mandarin is an English actor named Trevor Slattery, who is oblivious to the actions carried out in his image. Killian then captures Stark. He reveals he has subjected Potts to Extremis in the hope Stark will help fix Extremis' flaws while trying to save her. When Hansen betrays Killian by threatening to jeopardize his operations, Killian fatally shoots her.

Stark escapes and reunites with Rhodes, discovering that Killian intends to attack President Ellis aboard Air Force One, using the Iron Patriot armor, controlled by Savin. Stark kills Savin, saving the passengers and crew, but cannot stop Killian from abducting Ellis. At an impounded damaged oil tanker, Killian intends to kill Ellis on live television. The Vice President would then become a puppet leader, following Killian's orders, in exchange for Extremis to cure his young daughter's<!--credited as "Vice President's daughter"--> disability. Stark and Rhodes infiltrate the platform, aided by the remaining Iron Man suits, controlled remotely by J.A.R.V.I.S.. Rhodes secures the President and takes him to safety, while Stark discovers Potts has survived the Extremis procedure. Before he can save her, a rig collapses around them, and she falls to the platform below, causing Stark to believe her dead. Stark fights Killian but finds himself cornered. Killian, who appropriated Hansen's Extremis research as a cure for his own disability and expanded the program to include injured war veterans, reveals he is the real Mandarin behind Slattery's cover. Potts, whose Extremis powers allowed her to survive the fall, kills Killian to save Stark.

As a gesture of his devotion to Potts, Stark orders J.A.R.V.I.S. to destroy all the Iron Man suits. The Vice President and Slattery are arrested, and Happy awakens from his coma. With Stark's help, Potts's Extremis effects are stabilized; and Stark promises to scale back his life as Iron Man, undergoing surgery to remove the shrapnel near his heart and throwing his obsolete chest arc reactor into the sea. He muses that, even without the technology, he will always be Iron Man.<!--

Per MOS:FILMPLOT, please do not include the post-credit scene here. See the MOS and the talk page for more. -->

####Jiu Jitsu (film)####
Every six years, an ancient order of expert Jiu Jitsu fighters faces a vicious race of alien invaders in a battle for Earth. For thousands of years the invaders have lost to Earth's defenders, up until now. Earth's future is in jeopardy.

In a jungle in Burma (Myanmar) Asia, Jake Barnes, a celebrated war hero, is running away from shuriken under the command of Brax, the powerful invader leader. Jake ends up on an oceanside cliff, where he is hit by the stars, falls into the ocean, hits his head and blacks out.

Wylie, a senior Jiu Jitsu fighter, rescues Jake from the water and gives him over to the care of two Burmese fishermen. They stitch up Jake's cuts and take him to a nearby military outpost, assuming that he came from there. After foreboding miscommunication between an inexperienced translator and one of the fisherwomen, Jake is left at the outpost and starts to regain consciousness. But he must regain his strength! Puzzled by the mention of a comet that comes every six years and a hole in a temple opening, the operatives set about figuring out where Jake came from. An intelligence officer, Myra, tries to interrogate Jake but he appears to have amnesia, with no recall of events leading to his being found in the water.

After a fight sequence Myra injects Jake with a truth serum, but this proves ineffective on what he divulges. She decides it is probable that he actually does not remember, but while discussing this with other operatives, Keung, advanced Jiu Jitsu fighter, begins to work his way through the base, besting fist and gun alike. Keung is unfazed by repeated attacks by men in balaclavas and fatigue uniforms, who he lays flat. Gunfire and the sound of feet against chests, heads and the like alert Myra and the others that indeed something is up. After more fighting, Keung approaches Jake who he recognizes with a special handclasp. Keung exclaims "We gotta go" and Jake accepts this chance to leave his captors. Their departure from the base confirms that Jake, too, is skilled in the art of using his limbs in defense against others.

Jake then reunites with three other fighters who seem to know him but he doesn't remember who they are or what his mission is. As they try to leave to head back to their base, soldiers turn up again. The three other fighters defeat the entire unit easily but Jake gets grabbed by Myra. She tried questioning him again back at the military base but he simply tells her she should leave. They then decide to move out from the army base as they try to escape but they are hunted down by an alien called Brax. The group confronts Brax at the temple and fight him. During the fight, it is revealed that Brax has a weakness to fire and uses that to his advantage. Jake manages to cut down Brax with a sword and shove a grenade in his gut before it heals up. He kicks Brax into the portal and it explodes finally ending the alien race.

####Johnny Mnemonic (film)####
In 2021, society is driven by a virtual Internet, which has created a degenerate effect called "nerve attenuation syndrome" or NAS. Megacorporations control much of the world, intensifying the class hostility already created by NAS.

Johnny is a "mnemonic courier" who discreetly transports sensitive data for corporations in a storage device implanted in his brain at the cost of his childhood memories. His current job is for a group of scientists in Beijing. Johnny initially balks when he learns the data exceeds his memory capacity even with compression, but agrees given the large fee will be enough to cover the cost of the operation to remove the device. Johnny warns that he must have the data extracted within a few days or suffer psychological damage. The scientists encrypt the data with three random images from a television feed. As they transmit these images to the receiver in Newark, New Jersey, they are attacked and killed by Yakuza led by Shinji, who wields a laser tripwire beam. Johnny escapes with a portion of the images but is pursued by both the Yakuza and security forces for Pharmakom, one of the mega-corporations run by Takahashi. Johnny witnesses brief images of a female projection of an artificial intelligence (AI) who attempts to aid Johnny, but he dismisses her.

In Newark, Johnny meets with his handler Ralfi but finds Ralfi is working with the Yakuza. Johnny is rescued by Jane, a cybernetically-enhanced bodyguard, members of the anti-establishment Lo-Teks, and their leader J-Bone. Ralfi is sliced into pieces when he gets in Shinji's way. Jane takes Johnny to a clinic run by Spider, who installed Jane's implants. Spider reveals he was intended to receive the Beijing scientists' data, which is a stolen cure for NAS; Spider claims Pharmakom refuses to release the cure as they are profiting off mitigation treatments. The portion of the encryption images Johnny took and what Spider received is not sufficient to decrypt Johnny's mind, so Spider suggests they see Jones at the Lo-Teks' base. Suddenly, an assassin hired by Takahashi known as "The Street Preacher" attacks the clinic, killing Spider as Johnny and Jane escape.

The two reach the Lo-Tek base and learn from J-Bone that Jones is a dolphin once used by the Navy that can help decrypt Johnny's payload. As they start the procedure, Shinji and the Yakuza, Takahashi and his security forces, and the Street Preacher all attack the base. While Takahashi confronts Johnny and holds him at gunpoint, Shinji, who wants the data for himself, guns down Takahashi. Shinji nearly defeats Johnny, but Johnny beheads him with his laser wire. Takahashi has a last-minute change of heart and turns over a portion of the encryption key to Johnny before he dies, but this still is not enough to fully decrypt the data. J-Bone tells Johnny that he will need to hack his own mind with Jones' help. Johnny, Jane, J Bone and the Lo Teks defeat the remaining forces sent after them. The Street Preacher arrives, and, after a fight, is electrocuted to death by Johnny and Jane.

The second attempt starts, and aided by the female AI, Johnny decrypts the data, and, at the same time, recover his childhood memories. The AI is revealed to be a virtual version of Johnny's mother, who founded Pharmakom and was angered by the company's actions. As J-Bone transmits the NAS cure information across the Internet, Johnny and Jane watch from afar as the Pharmakom headquarters goes up in flames from the public outcry. In celebration, J-Bone disposes of the Street Preacher's burnt corpse by tossing it into the Newark's city waters.

####Juarez 2045####
####Judge Dredd (film)####
####Judgment Day (1998 film)####
Cultists with an enigmatic leader (Mario Van Peebles) seize the only man capable of devising a way to stop a giant meteor from hitting the Earth. A female agent (Suzy Amis) teams up with a prisoner (Ice-T), who together have three days to rescue the scientist (Linden Ashby) and save the planet from extinction.

####Jumper (2008 film)####
####Jurassic World####

Brothers Zach and Gray Mitchell visit Jurassic World, a dinosaur theme park on Isla Nublar, of which their aunt Claire Dearing is the operations manager. Claire assigns her assistant Zara as the boys' guide, but they evade her and explore on their own. Elsewhere on the island, Navy veteran and ethologist Owen Grady has been training a "Velociraptor" squad composed of Blue, Charlie, Delta, and Echo, and researching their intelligence. Based on the raptors' ability to follow commands, the head of InGen security Vic Hoskins believes that the animals can be weaponized, an idea Owen and his assistant Barry vehemently oppose.

Before its opening, Claire and park owner Simon Masrani inspect the park's newest attraction, the "Indominus rex", a transgenic dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu. Masrani tasks Owen with evaluating the enclosure's security. Owen warns Claire that the "Indominus" lacks social skills, making it dangerous and unpredictable. When the "Indominus" seemingly escapes her compound, Owen and two park workers enter the enclosure. The "Indominus", which can camouflage itself and mask its heat signature, suddenly appears. Owen survives, but she devours the other two men before escaping into the island's interior. Realizing that it is highly vicious and intelligent, Owen advises Masrani to have the specimen destroyed, but to protect his company's investment, Masrani dispatches a specialized unit to subdue it with non-lethal weaponry so that it can safely be returned to its paddock. After most of the unit is slaughtered, Claire orders the evacuation of the island's northern sector, while Masrani ponders Owen's warning and accosts Wu.

While exploring the park in a tour vehicle, Zach and Gray enter a restricted area. The "Indominus" arrives and destroys the vehicle, but the boys narrowly escape. They find the ruins of the original Jurassic Park visitor center, repair an old Jeep Wrangler, and drive back to the park resort. As Claire and Owen search for the boys, they barely escape the "Indominus" as well. Masrani and two troopers hunt down the "Indominus" by helicopter, but it breaks into the park's aviary. The Pteranodons and Dimorphodons, startled by the "Indominus", flee the aviary and fly into Masrani's helicopter, resulting it in crashing and killing its passengers, before converging onto the resort, and attacking everyone, including Zara who is then devoured by a "Mosasaurus". Zach and Gray find Owen and Claire at the resort as armed personnel shoot down the pterosaurs.

Assuming command, Hoskins orders the raptors to be used to track the "Indominus", whereupon Owen reluctantly complies and spearheads the assault with the raptors. Upon finding the "Indominus", the dinosaurs begin communicating among themselves. Owen realizes that the "Indominus" has "Velociraptor" DNA, and it usurps Owen's command of the raptors, becoming the pack's new alpha. Troops fire on the "Indominus", but it escapes. The raptors slaughter most of the soldiers, while Charlie is killed in the chaos. Hoskins evacuates Dr. Wu and the dinosaur embryos from the island to protect Dr. Wu's research. Owen, Claire, and the boys find Hoskins at the lab securing more embryos, but Delta breaks in and kills him. Owen re-establishes his bond with the three surviving raptors before the "Indominus" reappears. They attack the hybrid, but Delta and Echo are killed while Blue is knocked unconscious. Claire releases the Jurassic Park’s veteran "Tyrannosaurus rex" from its paddock and lures it into a battle with the "Indominus". The "Indominus" eventually gains the advantage over the "Tyrannosaurus" until Blue recovers and joins the battle. The duo overwhelms the "Indominus" until it gets cornered at the lagoon's edge, where it is dragged underwater by the resident "Mosasaurus".

The survivors are evacuated and the island is abandoned once again. Zach and Gray are reunited with their parents, while Owen and Claire decide to stay together.

####Jurassic Park III####

Twelve-year-old Eric Kirby and his mother's boyfriend, Ben Hildebrand, go parasailing near the restricted Isla Sorna.efn|The island became restricted to visitors following the events of "The Lost World: Jurassic Park" (1997). As the boat enters a thick fog, the crew is killed by an unknown attacker,efn|The film does not specify what killed the boat crew, although director Joe Johnston and cinematographer Shelly Johnson believed Pteranodons would be the likely culprit of the attack. prompting Ben to detach the line before the vessel crashes into rocks. Eric and Ben drift towards the island.

Eight weeks later, paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant struggles to secure funding for his "Velociraptor" research, and rebuffs the public's obsession with the events on Isla Nublar.efn|As depicted in "Jurassic Park" (1993) Grant discusses his research with a longtime colleague Ellie, hypothesizing that "Velociraptors" were intellectually and socially advanced beyond even primates. In Montana, his assistant, Billy Brennan, uses a three-dimensional printer to replicate a "Velociraptor" larynx.

Paul and Amanda Kirby, a seemingly wealthy couple, offer to fund Grant's research if he gives them an illegal aerial tour of Isla Sorna. Grant reluctantly agrees and flies there with Billy, two of the Kirbys' associates (Udesky and Cooper), and their pilot Nash. Grant learns that the Kirbys plan to land; he protests, but Cooper knocks him unconscious. Grant awakens to find that the group has landed, although they reboard the plane when a large predator approaches the runway, leaving Cooper behind. During takeoff, a "Spinosaurus" emerges and devours Cooper. The aircraft hits the dinosaur and crashes into the trees. The "Spinosaurus" attacks the plane and eats Nash, who has Paul's satellite phone. The survivors flee, only to encounter a "Tyrannosaurus". The two dinosaurs fight, and the "Spinosaurus" kills the "Tyrannosaurus" as the humans escape.

Grant furiously confronts the Kirbys, who reveal they are a middle-class divorced couple, searching for their son Eric and Amanda's boyfriend Ben. Government agencies declined to help, so they deceived Grant and brought him along, mistakenly believing him to have experience on Isla Sorna. The group begins searching for Eric and Ben, as they travel to the coast. They find Ben's corpse attached to the parasail, which Billy takes. They then stumble upon a "Velociraptor" nest, and Billy secretly places two eggs in his bag.

They soon discover an InGen compound, where a "Velociraptor" ambushes them, before vocalizing for its pack. The humans escape within a herd of "Corythosaurus" and "Parasaurolophus", causing a stampede; Grant and Udesky become separated from the others, who take refuge in the trees. The "Velociraptors" injure Udesky, attempting to lure Paul, Amanda, and Billy into rescuing him, although their trap is unsuccessful and they soon kill Udesky. Elsewhere, Grant observes the pack communicating and suspects that they are searching for something; as he tries to slip away, they ambush him. Eric disrupts the pack with canisters of tear gas and brings Grant to an overturned supply truck where he has been taking shelter. The following morning, Grant and Eric reunite with Billy and the Kirbys; the group narrowly escapes the "Spinosaurus".

Grant, suspicious of Billy, checks his bag and finds the "Velociraptor" eggs, which Billy reveals he planned to sell for funding. Grant decides to keep the eggs, hoping the "Velociraptors" may spare the group if the eggs are returned. The group enters an aviary, which they realize to be filled with "Pteranodons". A flock attacks the group and flies away with Eric. Billy rescues him using the parasail but is swarmed and seemingly killed. The group escapes the aviary but unintentionally leaves the cage unlocked. They board a small barge and make their way down a river. That night, they retrieve the ringing satellite phone from a pile of "Spinosaurus" feces, narrowly avoiding a "Ceratosaurus". Grant contacts Ellie and tells her where they are, but the "Spinosaurus" attacks the barge. Fuel from the boat leaks into the water, and Grant ignites it using a flare gun, forcing the "Spinosaurus" to flee.

The following day, the group hears a helicopter overhead and arrives at the coast, but they are ambushed by the "Velociraptors", who have come for the eggs. Grant uses the replica larynx to confuse the pack. Upon hearing distant helicopters, the raptors reclaim their eggs and disappear into the jungle. The U.S. Navy lands on the beach, summoned by Ellie, and rescue the survivors. On a helicopter, they discover that Billy has also been rescued, albeit in a seriously injured state. They watch the newly escaped "Pteranodons" fly alongside them as they leave the island.

####Jurassic World Dominion####
####Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom####

Shortly after the events of "Jurassic World" in 2015,efn|"Fallen Kingdom" states that the events of "Jurassic World" occurred in 2015. According to writer Colin Trevorrow, "Fallen Kingdom"'s opening scene takes place anywhere from a few weeks to six months after the events of "Jurassic World". Jurassic World: Camp Cretaceous confirms the time period is six months. a small mercenary team arrives on the abandoned Isla Nublar to collect DNA from the "Indominus rex" remains in the lagoon. After they collect a bone sample, the "Mosasaurus" devours their submersible. The "Tyrannosaurus" attacks their helicopter, but they manage to escape with the sample, also allowing the "Mosasaurus" to escape into the open ocean.

Three years later, a United States Senate committee debates whether Isla Nublar's dinosaurs should be saved from an impending volcanic eruption. Mathematician Dr. Ian Malcolm testifies that the dinosaurs should perish naturally to correct the wrongful cloning done by John Hammond. Meanwhile, Jurassic World's former operations manager, Claire Dearing, has established the Dinosaur Protection Group to save the animals. After the Senate rules against rescuing the animals, Hammond's former partner, Sir Benjamin Lockwood, summons Claire to his Northern California estate. Lockwood and his aide, Eli Mills, reveal a plan to relocate the dinosaurs to a new island sanctuary. Claire is needed to reactivate the park's tracking system to locate the animals, particularly Blue, the last surviving "Velociraptor". Claire recruits Owen Grady, former "Velociraptor" trainer, to help capture her.

On Isla Nublar, Claire and former park technician Franklin Webb reactivate the online tracking system. Owen, paleo-veterinarian Zia Rodriguez, and a mercenary team led by Ken Wheatley, track and find Blue. The encounter escalates, resulting in Blue being shot and Wheatley tranquilizing Owen. Wheatley then abandons Owen, Claire, and Franklin on the island while forcibly taking Zia hostage to treat Blue. The ship, loaded with captured dinosaurs, departs as the remaining dinosaurs are left behind to die in the eruption. Claire, Franklin, and Owen sneak aboard the ship and help Zia transfuse Blue with "Tyrannosaurus" blood to save her life.

Rather than being relocated to a new island, the captured dinosaurs are transported to the Lockwood estate, where Lockwood's orphaned granddaughter, Maisie, overhears Mills and auctioneer Mr. Eversoll secretly planning to sell the dinosaurs on the black market. They will also preview the "Indoraptor", a weaponized, transgenic dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu using "Indominus rex" and "Velociraptor" DNA. Wu needs Blue's DNA to create an enhanced "Indoraptor" that is obedient to commands, unaware that Blue's blood is no longer pure. After Maisie informs Lockwood about the auction, he confronts Mills, who murders him. Maisie is later revealed to have been cloned from Lockwood's deceased daughter and the reason why John Hammond ended their association.

The auctioned dinosaurs are being immediately shipped out. Franklin evades capture and frees Zia, but Owen and Claire have been apprehended. Owen incites a "Stygimoloch" into breaking open their cell. The two encounter Maisie, and they learn the "Indoraptor" is being sold despite Wu's protests that it is a prototype. Owen disrupts the auction by luring the "Stygimoloch" into the room. In the ensuing chaos, Wheatley tranquilizes the "Indoraptor" to extract a tooth as a trophy, but the hybrid, having merely feigned unconsciousness, kills Wheatley, Eversoll, and others as it escapes. It chases Owen, Claire, and Maisie throughout the mansion until Blue, released by Zia, confronts the "Indoraptor". Atop a high glass roof, both animals crash through it, killing the "Indoraptor" and leaving Blue unharmed.

When a hydrogen cyanide gas leak threatens the caged dinosaurs, Claire frees them, ignoring Owen's objections and Maisie opens the final gate allowing the remaining dinosaurs to go out into the open. As Mills attempts to leave with the "Indominus rex" bone, the "Tyrannosaurus" devours him and tramples the bone. Owen, Claire, Maisie, Zia, and Franklin escape, while Blue and the other released dinosaurs flee the estate grounds. In a new U.S. Senate hearing, Dr. Malcolm declares the beginning of a neo-Jurassic Age, where humans and dinosaurs must coexist. The closing scenes depict the freed dinosaurs roaming the wilderness and outer urban areas.

####Justice League (film)####

Thousands of years ago, Steppenwolf and his legions of Parademons attempted to take over the Earth using the combined energies of the three Mother Boxes. The attempt was foiled by a unified alliance including the Olympian Gods, Amazons, Atlanteans, humanity, and extraterrestrial beings.efn|Identified offscreen as Yalan Gur After Steppenwolf's army was repelled, the Mother Boxes were separated and hidden in different locations. In the present, humanity is still in mourning two years after the death of Superman, which triggered the Mother Boxes' reactivation and Steppenwolf's return to Earth. Steppenwolf aims to gather the boxes to form "The Unity", which will destroy Earth's ecology and terraform it in the image of Steppenwolf's homeworld.

Steppenwolf retrieves one Mother Box from Themyscira, prompting Queen Hippolyta to warn her daughter Diana. Diana joins Bruce Wayne in an attempt to unite other metahumans to their cause: Wayne goes after Arthur Curry and Barry Allen, while Diana locates Victor Stone. Wayne fails to persuade Curry but finds Allen enthusiastic. Although Diana fails to persuade Stone, he agrees to help them locate the threat. Stone joins after his father Silas and several other S.T.A.R. Labs employees are kidnapped by Steppenwolf, who is seeking the Mother Box protected by humanity.

Steppenwolf attacks an Atlantean outpost to retrieve the next Mother Box, forcing Curry into action. Stone retrieves the last Mother Box for the group, revealing that his father used the Mother Box to rebuild Stone's body after an accident almost cost him his life. Wayne decides to use the Mother Box to resurrect Superman, not only to help them fight off Steppenwolf's invasion but also to restore hope to humanity.

Clark Kent's body is exhumed and placed in the amniotic fluid of the genesis chamber in the Kryptonian scout ship, along with the Mother Box, successfully resurrecting Superman. However, Superman's memories have not returned, and he attacks the group. Batman enacts his contingency plan: Lois Lane. Superman calms down and leaves with her to his family home in Smallville, where his memories come back. In the turmoil, the last Mother Box is left unguarded, allowing Steppenwolf to retrieve it. Without Superman to aid them, the five heroes travel to a village in Russia where Steppenwolf aims to unite the Mother Boxes once again to remake Earth. They fight their way through the Parademons to reach Steppenwolf but are unable to distract him enough for Stone to separate the Mother Boxes. Superman arrives and assists Allen in evacuating the city, as well as assisting Stone in separating the Mother Boxes. The team defeats Steppenwolf, who, overcome with fear, is attacked by his own Parademons.

After the battle, Bruce and Diana agree to set up a base of operations for the team, with room for more members. As the team establishes, Diana steps back into the public spotlight as a heroine; Barry acquires a job in Central City's police department, impressing his father; Victor continues to enhance his abilities with his father in S.T.A.R. Labs; Arthur continues protecting people on the seas; Superman resumes his life as reporter Clark Kent and as protector of Earth.

In a post-credits scene, Lex Luthor has escaped from Arkham Asylum and recruits Slade Wilson to form a league of their own.

####Justin Time (film)####
An ancient and magical amulet that has the power to stop time is passed through generations until it ends up in the hands of a young man who must choose to use its power for good or for evil.

####Karate Cop####
After an environmental holocaust caused by solar flares nearly destroyed the Earth the atmosphere is ridden with solar radiation and global temperatures had risen greatly. This catastrophe left almost every human on earth dead, devastated the environment, and causes societal collapse. Crime rates have drastically increased, and the few human beings left have decided to fend for themselves and much of the world has seen the rise of gangs of rampaging marauders. In post-apocalyptic America, the once-stable society has become a corrupt, crime-ridden totalitarian wasteland. The few remaining citizens are either hiding in devastated urban areas or are controlled by various gangs that now rule the cities with an iron fist. A former cop, John Travis, is a martial arts expert and spends his days undercover, walking across the barren urban landscape. Travis is doing his best to maintain some kind of order as the gangs slowly weed each other out by fighting in large arenas to create the most powerful gang and thus control the country.

####Kin (film)####
####The King of Fighters (film)####
The King of Fighters is a tournament held in an alternate dimension. When contestants are issued challenges, they enter the tournament via a special Bluetooth headset.

Mai Shiranui and her boyfriend Iori Yagami attend a private unveiling of three relics at a museum in Boston: The Kagura Mirror, the Yagami Necklace and the Kusanagi Sword. Rugal Bernstein storms into the exhibit and steals the three relics, and uses them to disappear into a dimensional portal to awaken the mythical entity known as the Orochi, which grants limitless powers. The sword is revealed to be a fake and the quest is delayed. Mai is told by an injured Chizuru Kagura the real sword is with Saisyu Kusanagi at a mental institution. She is warned that Iori should not be involved in her quest to defeat Rugal. At the institution, Mai meets a catatonic Saisyu and his son Kyo but Iori's presence suddenly breaks Saisyu's catatonic state, and the elder Kusanagi threatens to kill Iori before losing consciousness and dying.

At another hospital, Chizuru is informed by her colleague Scott that Rugal has altered the King of Fighters database and issued challenges to fighters around the world. CIA agent Terry Bogard enters Chizuru's room, demanding information on Rugal's whereabouts and the tournament. She tells that different dimensions exist, but when he does not believe it, she tells him to go to Seattle and ask Mai, who is an undercover operative sent by the CIA to infiltrate Chizuru's organization a year ago.

At a cemetery in Seattle, where Saisyu is buried, Kyo and Iori confront each other. Iori explains that both Kusanagi and Yagami clans were destined to be enemies. Mai hitches a ride with Kyo to his home, where she explains that she is looking for the Kusanagi Sword. Kyo tells her that centuries ago, a Yagami ancestor attempted to release the Orochi, but it consumed him with murderous rage. Kyo's ancestor killed the Yagami and returned the Orochi into its world. Mai tells Kyo that Rugal is out to unleash the Orochi. Kyo wants to confront Rugal, who destroyed his father's mental state.

At a hotel, Mai and Kyo meet up with Iori and Terry. Rugal is using the tournament dimension to merge it with the real world. After Mai blows her cover in front of Kyo, Iori puts on his Bluetooth headset and enters the tournament dimension to confront Rugal. There, he defeats Rugal's servants, Mature and Vice, only to have his mind consumed by the Orochi.

The next day, Kyo is lured into the tournament dimension, where he first fights Rugal and loses, but is allowed to live as a warning. Kyo brings out his ancestral sword and joins Chizuru and Terry into the tournament after Mai is dragged in by Rugal. When the four meet up, they are separated into different dimensions, with Kyo fighting Rugal, and Mai and Terry facing Mature and Vice. Rugal is about to decapitate Kyo, when Iori appears and intervenes. Rugal reveals to Kyo that several years back, he battled Saisyu, Chizuru, and Iori over control of the Orochi. During that fight, Iori allowed the Orochi to take over his body, defeating Rugal, but also destroying Saisyu's mental state by bashing his head against a wooden barrier several times. This leads to a fight between Kyo and Iori until Kyo slashes Iori in the back, releasing the Orochi from his body.

Disappointed by the outcome of the fight, Rugal sends Kyo, Iori, and Mai into another dimension to face them with his full potential. Chizuru and her multiple clones appear, revealing that she has found the mirror and the necklace. The heroes fail in their first attempt to combine the relics and trap Rugal, with Chizuru mortally wounded. Mai takes her place as the mirror holder, but as she, Kyo and Iori corner Rugal, they are once again overcome by his powers. Rugal destroys Kyo's sword, but as he is about to finish him off with a fireball, Kyo magically generates a new sword to block it. He then throws the sword and destroys Rugal.

Back in the real world, Scott places a lantern on the ocean in memory of Chizuru. Kyo decides to keep the family tradition by continuing with the tournament. He reflects on his late father's teachings while Iori stares at him from the other side of the pier.

####Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes####
####Knight Rider 2010####
####Knights (film)####
The cyborg Gabriel (Kris Kristofferson) was created to destroy all other cyborgs. He later rescues Nea (Kathy Long) by killing the cyborg Simon (Scott Paulin). Gabriel trains Nea to become a cyborg killer and help him. They continue to kill cyborgs until Gabriel is torn in half by one of his targets and taken to the cyborg camp. Nea follows Jacob and challenges the cyborg leader Job (Lance Henriksen) to a fight. Finding Gabriel, she straps him to her back and they battle cyborgs until Gabriel can attach a dead cyborg's legs to himself. They pursue Job, but before they can catch him, the Master Builder captures Nea's brother, taking him to Cyborg City. During a battle, Job tells Gabriel that the cyborg population can't be stopped. Job dies moments later. Gabriel and Nea ride off in search of her brother.

####Krull (film)####

A narrator describes a prophecy regarding "a girl of ancient name that shall become queen", who "shall choose a king, and that together they shall rule their world, and that their son shall rule the galaxy."

The planet Krull is invaded by an entity known as the Beast and his army of Slayers, who travel the galaxy in a mountain-like spaceship called the Black Fortress. In a wedding ceremony involving the couple exchanging a handful of flame, Prince Colwyn and Princess Lyssa plan to marry and form an alliance between their rival kingdoms, in the hope that their combined forces can defeat the Beast's army. The Slayers attack before the ceremony is completed, killing the two kings, devastating both armies, wounding Colwyn, and kidnapping the princess.

Colwyn is found and nursed by Ynyr, the Old One. Ynyr tells Colwyn that the Beast can be defeated with the Glaive, an ancient, magical, five-pointed throwing star.ref label|glaive|a Colwyn retrieves the Glaive from a high mountain cave, before setting out to track down the Black Fortress, which teleports to a new location every day at sunrise. As they travel, Colwyn and Ynyr are joined by the magician Ergo "the Magnificent" and a band of nine thieves, fighters, bandits, and brawlers. Colwyn offers to clear their criminal records, successfully enlisting Torquil, Kegan, Rhun, Oswyn, Bardolph, Menno, Darro, Nennog, and Quain. The cyclops Rell later joins the group.

Colwyn's group travels to the home of the Emerald Seer and his apprentice, Titch. The Emerald Seer uses his crystal to view where the Fortress will teleport to, but the Beast's hand magically appears and crushes the crystal. The group travels to a swamp that the Beast's magic cannot penetrate, but lose Darro to a Slayer attack and Menno to quicksand. An agent of the Beast, a changeling, kills the Emerald Seer before the seer can confirm the next location of the Fortress, and assumes the seer's form, but is uncovered and killed by Rell and Colwyn.

While the group rests in a forest, Kegan goes to a nearby village and gets Merith, one of his wives, to bring food. The Beast remotely commands Merith's changeling helper, who attempts to seduce Colwyn in order to convince Lyssa that Colwyn does not love her; but Colwyn rejects the helper's advances. The helper notes that she could have killed Colwyn but refused to out of love. Seeing this through a vision provided by the Beast, Lyssa notes that this shows proof that love triumphs over might, but the Beast forces her to consider his offer to be his queen so that he can halt the attacks of the Slayers.

Ynyr leaves the group to seek the Widow of the Web, an enchantress who loved Ynyr long ago and was exiled to the lair of the Crystal Spider for murdering their only child. The Widow reveals where the Black Fortress will be at sunrise. She also gives Ynyr the sand from the enchanted hourglass that kept the Crystal Spider from attacking her and will keep the badly injured Ynyr alive on his journey back to the group. As the Crystal Spider attacks the Widow, Ynyr flees the web and returns to the group to reveal the location of the Black Fortress. As he speaks, he loses the last of the sand and dies.

The group captures and rides magical Fire Mares to reach the Black Fortress before it teleports again. The Slayers at the Fortress kill Rhun, while Rell sacrifices himself to hold open the crushing spaceship doors long enough to allow the others to enter. The Slayers shoot Quain and Nennog, and Kegan sacrifices his life to save Torquil as they journey through the Fortress. When Ergo and Titch get separated from the others and are attacked by the Slayers, Ergo magically transforms into a tiger to kill the Slayers and save Titch's life.

Colwyn, Torquil, Bardolph, and Oswyn are trapped inside a large dome. Colwyn attempts to open a hole in the dome with the Glaive, while the other three search for any other way out. The three fall through an opening and are trapped between walls studded with huge spikes, which kill Bardolph.

Colwyn breaches the dome and finds Lyssa. He attacks the Beast, injuring it with the Glaive, which becomes embedded in the Beast's body. With nothing to defend themselves against the Beast's counterattack, Lyssa realizes that they must quickly finish the wedding ritual. This gives them the linked power to manipulate fire, with which Colwyn slays the Beast. The Beast's death frees Torquil and Oswyn from the spike room, and they rejoin Colwyn and Lyssa, then Ergo and Titch. Together, they make their way out of the crumbling fortress, the ruins of which is pulled off the planet and into space.

Colwyn and Lyssa, now king and queen of the combined kingdom, name Torquil as Lord Marshal. As the surviving heroes depart across a field, the narrator repeats the opening prophecy that the son of the queen and her chosen king shall rule the galaxy.

####Land of Doom####

Harmony runs away to hide in a cave while her village is attacked by the raiders. Inside, she finds a wounded survivor named Anderson, whom she obviously despises. Eventually, she agrees to travel with Anderson in search of food and shelter. On the road, they are captured by a bounty hunter named Demister, sent out by raider commander Slater. He ties Anderson to a tree and attacks Harmony after she tries to escape.

Hysterical, Harmony kills Demister with a rock and threatens to leave Anderson to die. He convinces her to let him go so he can get them both to a rumored safe haven, though he doesn't know where it is. They take Demister's motorcycle and ride until it's out of fuel. They walk until they come to a fortified ruins where a group of insane, diseased cannibals offer them something called "deer meat". Harmony asks to use the outhouse, where she finds a pile of bodies and is almost attacked by one of the cannibals. When she gets back to Anderson she warns him about the meat, throws her food bowl at the cannibal and ties him up.

On the road again, Harmony senses two cannibals are following them, so they hide in the bushes. She sneaks away and is discovered by one of the cannibals, who she then scuffles with. Harmony sneaks up behind Anderson and scares him to be funny. He becomes enraged and they argue. They continue their journey and are ambushed by a mob wearing tattered clothing concealing their faces. It is revealed that they have the plague and after they fight it over, Anderson and Harmony argue again. They decide to camp and find high ground to stay the night.

In the morning, a loud bang followed by a rumbling surprises the two awake. From the edge of a cliff they observe raiders attacking a nearby village. Anderson recognizes Purvis (Frank Garret), one of Slater's maniacs, standing on a hilltop with some others. The villagers try to repel the raiders in a gunfight. Many die in the battle, until the raiders break through the fence, swarming into the village through the hole. Anderson and Harmony try to sneak into the area during the battle to steal a motorcycle. They attack an injured biker and steal his motorcycle. While they are escaping on the bike, Purvis recognizes Anderson through his spyglass and sends troops after them.

The raiders almost catch up with the fugitives, so Anderson attempts to ride down into a steep valley, but they follow. Anderson then ambushes the raiders, shooting one. The fugitives try to escape back uphill until Harmony jumps off of the bike, causing the raiders to split up while chasing them.

Anderson stops to check his fuel and is captured by Purvis. He tries to joke with Purvis, stalling until Harmony can rescue him. She sneaks behind Purvis and holds him up with a branch and a small pistol. The two leave him frozen in place, afraid to move because of a rattlesnake sliding over his boot. Back on the road, they find a man stuck on a boulder while a pack of rabid dogs circle below. Anderson scares the dogs off and the traveler climbs down. Orland and his puppy accompany Anderson and Harmony for a while. After saying goodbye to the man and his puppy, they ride away, only to be captured by the raiders. Orland witnesses their capture and follows the truck carrying them.

Anderson and Harmony are brought before Lead Raider Slater, in a cave used as the raider's headquarters. Slater thinks he can have Harmony, so he tries to win her over with the promise of riches and sex, but she just spits in his face. She gets free and grabs a lead pipe and attacks the raiders as Anderson, still held by burly raiders, and concubines look on. She tries to defend herself, but they overpower her, ripping some of her clothes off. Purvis returns and threatens Anderson because of the snake. Slater pushes Purvis down and orders him to take the captives to the cells.

Meanwhile, Orland is still following the truck tracks. He leaves behind his bike and puppy as he races to catch up with the raiders. From the top of a cliff he sees the raiders' outpost. He returns to his bike, but can't find his puppy. While searching for her, he falls into a hole, landing in a small tomb. He finds his puppy there, but is also attacked by a group of strange-speaking dwarves.

Anderson and Harmony are chained to a rock wall, hanging over a fire. Purvis comes in to announce when Anderson is to be executed. They unchain both prisoners and bring them to Slater. Harmony is then chained to a beam set across a roasting fire. Suddenly, out of nowhere, Orland jumps into the cave and begins firing a flamethrower. In the ensuing chaos, Anderson attacks Slater, who runs away and hides behind a tapestry. Anderson grabs a gun and helps Orland kills the rest of the raiders. The three then escape through a secret door while Purvis and others follow them through the fire. They arrive at the dwarves' armory and Orland explains what is going on.

The cloaked dwarves lead the three to a secret hatch above the raider camp, where they begin to shoot at the men, who return fire. The three escape are about to escape when, Orland remembers seeing an oil tanker earlier and lights it on fire. They escape during the confusion caused by the oil explosion. They destroy all the raiders' fuel reserves and escape on foot. Purvis and his raiders emerge from the smokey wreckage and he leads them in a search for the trio. Orland finds an abandoned truck and hotwires it. Raider bikers chase after the truck, shooting at it. They come to a bridge and find the midgets helping them keep the raiders at bay. The three make it safely across the bridge just before the truck explodes, destroying the bridge and blocking the raiders from following.

Orland decides to stay with his new dwarf friends and his puppy. He sees Slater chasing after the other two and starts running and yelling for Anderson and Harmony. They both look back to see what's wrong and discover Slater is still chasing them. Anderson explains,"Here we go again!" as Orland catches up to them and they all start running up the hill as the credits roll.

####The Last Starfighter####
####The Last Warrior (2000 film)####
An earthquake measuring 9.5 on the Richter Scale splits California into an island with a perpetual dustcloud hanging over it. The survivors of the terrible ordeal have started to come together in the shape of Nick Preston (Dolph Lundgren) an air force captain, and other fractions of the military, including Sarah McBride (Sherri Alexander) and Lucky Simcoe (Joe Michael Burke), and have situated themselves in a warfare junkyard, holding weaponry from forgotten conflicts. They are searching for food, fuel and fellow survivors, and a possible path into the next world, while also dodging a violent plague that causes the skin to boil.

####Lawnmower Man 2: Beyond Cyberspace####
The founder of virtual reality, Dr. Benjamin Trace, has lost a legal battle to secure a patent on the most powerful worldwide communications chip ever invented. Touted as the one operating system to control all others, in the wrong hands the "Chiron Chip" has the potential to dominate a society dependent on computers. When corporate tycoon and virtual reality entrepreneur Jonathan Walker takes over development of the Chiron Chip, he and his team discover Jobe Smith barely alive after the destruction of Virtual Space Industries. After having his face reconstructed and his legs amputated, they hook him up to their database to have him help them perfect the Chiron Chip.

Six years later, a now 16-year-old Peter Parkette is a computer hacker living in the subways of a cyberpunk Los Angeles with a group of other runaway teens. While hooked into Cyberspace, Jobe reconnects with Peter and asks him to find Trace for him. Peter locates Trace living in a desert and brings him to his hideout to speak with Jobe. Jobe shows Trace his newly constructed cyber world and asks about the Egypt link, a hidden Nano routine in the chip's design. Trace refuses to tell him, noting that Jobe is insane and would not understand its power. Enraged, Jobe hacks into the subway system's  computer to send another train crashing into the one Trace and the teenagers are in, but Trace causes the runaway train to crash into a construction site instead.

Walker and his team at "Virtual Light Industries" plan on announcing the functions of the chip and its virtual city to the public and world leaders, though Walker wants to use them for spying and blackmail. He uses Jobe to deal with anything that could stop him, such as crashing a plane carrying a senator who is opposed to the launch, and killing anyone who gets too close to the truth through virtual reality. Trace, Peter, and the others make an attempt to break into Virtual Light to steal the chip, but are nearly killed by Jobe before they are rescued by Dr. Cori Platt, Trace's former partner and lover.

After stealing the chip they find it is a decoy. Walker keeps the real chip in his office and the launch of the chip seems inevitable. Jobe begins causing havoc through the chip by accessing credit accounts, ATM machines, and water and power in an attempt to destroy the world so that everyone may join and follow him as a virtual messiah. Walker attempts to stop Jobe but is gunned down by his own security.

The group returns to Virtual Light Industries. Trace explains that the Egypt link is a dam function designed to prevent "ultimate power". Jobe has built around the link without knowing its purpose. Trace and the others confront Jobe in his virtual city, in an attempt to get him roused enough to overpower himself. "Egypt" kicks in, destroying the virtual city and reducing Jobe to his simpleton persona. Peter goes to see Jobe before a wounded Walker takes Peter hostage in an attempt to bargain for the chip. Jobe distracts Walker long enough for Trace to strike him, causing him to land on exposed wiring that kills him. Peter and the others collect Jobe as they go home.

####Leviathan (1989 film)####
####Lightyear (film)####
####Logan's Run (film)####
In the year of the city 2274, the remnants of human civilization live in a sealed city contained beneath a cluster of geodesic domes, a utopia run by a computer that takes care of all aspects of life, including reproduction. The citizens live a hedonistic lifestyle but, to prevent overpopulation, everyone must undergo the rite of "Carrousel"<!--please do not change "Carrousel" to "Carousel"; it is misspelled on screen in the preamble as "Carrousel" and this article should reflect the spelling used there--> when they reach the age of 30. There, they are killed under the guise of being "renewed". To track this, each person is implanted at birth with a "life-clock" crystal in the palm of the left hand that changes color as they get older and begins blinking as they approach their "Last Day". Most residents accept this chance for rebirth, but those who do not and attempt to flee the city are known as "Runners". An elite team of policemen known as "Sandmen", outfitted in predominantly black uniforms, are assigned to pursue and terminate Runners as they try to escape.

Logan 5 and Francis 7 are both Sandmen. After terminating a Runner, to whose presence they were alerted during a Carrousel rite, Logan finds an ankh among his possessions. Later that evening, he meets Jessica 6, a young woman also wearing an ankh pendant. Logan takes the ankh to the computer, which tells him that it is a symbol for a secret group whose members help the Runners find "Sanctuary", a mythic place where they will be safe to live out the rest of their lives.
thu
Logan learns that the Sandmen have lost 1,056 Runners this way. The computer instructs Logan to find Sanctuary and destroy it, a mission which it code names "Procedure 033-03", which he must keep secret from the other Sandmen. Then, the computer changes the color of his life clock to flashing red, suddenly making him four years closer to Carrousel. Scared, he asks if the four years will be restored to him when his mission is completed but receives no response. In order to escape this, Logan is now forced to become a Runner. Logan meets Jessica and explains his intention to run. They meet with the underground group that leads them to the periphery of the city.

Logan learns that the ankh symbol is actually a key that unlocks an exit from the city. They come out into a frozen cave, with Francis following closely behind. In the cave, they meet Box, a robot designed to capture food for the city from the outside. Logan discovers, to his horror, that Box also captures escaped Runners and freezes them for food. Before Box can freeze Logan and Jessica, they escape, causing the cave to collapse on the robot.

Once outside, Logan and Jessica notice that their life clocks are no longer operational. They see the Sun for the first time and discover that the remains of human civilization have become a wilderness. They explore an old, seemingly abandoned city which was once Washington, D.C. In the ruins of the United States Senate chamber, they discover an elderly man living with many cats. His appearance is a shock to them, since neither has ever seen anyone over the age of thirty. The old man recounts what he remembers about what happened to humanity outside the city, and Logan realizes that Sanctuary has always been a myth.

However, Francis has followed them and he and Logan fight. Logan fatally wounds Francis; as he dies, Francis sees that Logan's life clock is now clear and assumes Logan has renewed. Logan and Jessica persuade the old man to return to the city with them as proof that life exists outside the domed city. Leaving the man outside, the two enter the city via an underwater tunnel and try to convince everyone that Carrousel is a lie and unnecessary. The two are captured by other Sandmen and taken to the computer, which interrogates Logan about Procedure 033-03 and asks if he completed his mission.

Logan insists, "There is no Sanctuary". What he had found was "old ruins, exposed", "an old man", and that the missing Runners were "all frozen”.
These answers are not accepted by the computer, even after scanning Logan's mind, and the computer overloads, causing the city's systems to fail violently and release the exterior seals. Logan, Jessica, and the other citizens flee the ruined city. Once outside, the citizens see the old man, the first human they have met who is older than thirty, proving that they can, indeed, live their lives much longer.

####Lost in Space (film)####

In 2058, Earth will soon be uninhabitable due to the irreversible effects of pollution and ozone depletion. In an effort to save humanity, the United Global Space Force sends Professor John Robinson, his wife Maureen, daughters Judy and Penny, and young prodigy son Will on the spaceship "Jupiter II" to complete construction of a hypergate over the planet Alpha Prime, which will allow the population of Earth to be instantly transported and populate the new planet. Penny rebels by breaking curfew, while Will's prize-winning science experiment involving time travel goes largely unnoticed by John. Global Sedition, a mutant terrorist group, assassinates the "Jupiter II"'s pilot, who is replaced by hotshot fighter pilot Major Don West, to his chagrin.

The family's physician Dr. Zachary Smith, a Sedition spy, sabotages the ship's on-board robot before launch, but is betrayed by his cohorts and left unconscious as the ship launches and the family enters cryosleep. The robot activates and begins to destroy the navigation and guidance systems, en route to destroying the family. Smith awakens the Robinsons and West, who manage to subdue the robot, but the ship is falling uncontrollably into the Sun. Forced to use the experimental hyperdrive with an unplotted course, the ship is transported through hyperspace to a remote planet in an uncharted part of the universe.

Passing through a strange distortion in space, the crew finds two abandoned ships in orbit: the Earth ship "Proteus", and another ship clearly not of human origin. They board the "Proteus", with Will controlling the now-modified robot. They find navigational data to reach Alpha Prime, and a camouflaging creature Penny calls "Blarp", along with evidence suggesting the ship is from the future. They are attacked by spider-like creatures; one scratches Smith, and the robot's body is irreparably damaged but Will saves its computerized intelligence.

West destroys the vessel to eradicate the spiders, causing the ship to crash-land on the nearby planet, where another distortion appears. Will theorizes they are distortions in time, as his experiment predicted, but John ignores his input. Exploring the time bubble, he and West encounter a future version of Will and a robot he rebuilt with the saved intelligence.  (The time-travel illusions in the 1967 "Lost in Space" television episode "Flight into the Future," such as a future statue of the Robot and descendants of Dr. Smith and Judy, are likely an influence on this part of the film.)  The older Will explains that surviving spiders killed Maureen, Penny, and Judy. Constructing a time machine, the future Will intends to return to Earth to prevent "Jupiter II" from launching.

Young Will and Smith investigate the time bubble on their own. Smith tricks Will into handing over his weapon, but is foiled by a future version of himself, transformed by his spider injury into a spider-like creature, who has been protecting Will since the rest of the family was killed. The present Will and West return to the "Jupiter II" with an injured Smith and the robot in tow, while the future Smith reveals his true plan: He killed the Robinsons, but kept Will alive to build the time machine, so Smith could return to Earth and populate it with a race of spiders.

John, remembering that spiders eat their wounded, rips open Smith's egg sac with a trophy Will turned into a weapon. Smith's spider army devours him and he is thrown into the time portal, ripping him apart. The planet's increasing instability forces the "Jupiter II" to take off, but they are unable to reach escape velocity and are destroyed by the planet's debris. Realizing his father never actually abandoned them, and that he really does love him, Will sets the time machine to send John back to his family, but there is only enough power for one person. Saying goodbye to his family, the future Will is killed by falling debris, and John reunites with his living family.

Realizing they do not have enough power to escape the planet's gravitational pull, John suggests they drive the ship down through the planet, using the gravity well to slingshot them back into space. They are successful, but the planet turns into a black hole, and they activate the hyperdrive to escape. Using the "Proteus"’ navigational data to set a potential course for Alpha Prime, the ship blasts off into hyperspace.

####Madame Web (film)####
####Man of Steel (film)####

The planet Krypton is destabilized from the mining of the planetary core. Just before the planet explodes, Krypton's supreme council chief advisor Jor-El infuses the genetics codex into his infant son, Kal-El, the first naturally born Kryptonian child in centuries. Jor-El manages to send Kal-El in a spacecraft toward Earth before being killed by General Zod during an uprising. Kal-El lands in Kansas, where he is adopted by Jonathan and Martha Kent and named Clark. As he grows older, he develops superhuman powers that Jonathan urges him to keep hidden, even refusing Clark's help years later during a tornado incident where he loses his life. Burdened with guilt over Jonathan's death, Clark travels the globe hiding under various aliases seeking a purpose in life.

"Daily Planet" reporter Lois Lane receives an assignment to investigate the discovery of a Kryptonian scout ship in the Canadian Arctic. Clark enters the ship disguised as a worker and learns from its artificial intelligence (AI), modeled after his father Jor-El, that Clark was sent to Earth to guide its people. While following Clark, Lois inadvertently triggers the ship's security system, and he uses his powers to rescue Lois from its defenses. He wears a uniform provided by the ship's AI and begins testing his flying abilities. Unable to convince supervisor Perry White to publish an article on the incident, Lois tracks down Clark in Smallville, with the intent of exposing him. However, Lois drops the story upon hearing of Jonathan Kent's sacrifice, keeping Clark's identity safe, which fuels Perry's suspicions.

Zod and his crew escape the Phantom Zone, where they were imprisoned for treason for their actions against Krypton. They travel to Earth to turn it into a new Krypton, possessing several terraforming devices salvaged from Kryptonian outposts. Following Clark and Lois' capture, Zod's science officer, Jax-Ur, extracts Clark's genes to create Kryptonian colonists who will build a society based on Zod's ideals of genetic purity. Using the Jor-El AI to take over the ship, Clark and Lois flee and warn the U.S. military of Zod's plan, resulting in an explosive confrontation between Clark and Zod's troops.

Zod deploys his most powerful terraforming device, the World Engine, which severely damages Metropolis and puts humanity's existence at risk. Clark destroys the terraforming platform while the military launches a suicide attack, sending Zod's troops back to the Phantom Zone. With the ship destroyed and Krypton's only hope of revival gone, Zod vows to destroy Earth and its inhabitants out of revenge. The two Kryptonians engage in a lengthy battle across Metropolis, which concludes when Clark is forced to kill Zod as he attacks a family in a train station. Sometime later, Clark adopts the moniker "Superman" and persuades the government to let him act independently, under the condition he does not turn against humanity. To gain covert access to dangerous situations, he takes a job under his civilian identity, Clark Kent, as a reporter for the "Daily Planet".

####Manhunt in Space####
Space Rangers Rocky Jones (Richard Crane) and co-pilot Winky (Scotty Beckett) of the United Planets are assigned to investigate the disappearance of several space ships in the vicinity of Cassa 7, a planet on which the United Planets are attempting to build an outpost. Immediately upon being given the assignment Jones discovers that the ship of fellow Space Ranger Reggie (Ray Montgomery) and friend Vena Ray (Sally Mansfield), who is aboard to visit her brother Paul Ray (Tom Brown) on Cassa 7, have become the latest victims of the mysterious disappearances. Upon reaching orbit around Cassa 7, Reggie and Vena are rescued by Jones and Winky, and it is revealed to the Rangers that the missing ships are actually being hijacked by a group of space pirates led by Rinkman (Henry Brandon), using a method created by partner in crime Dr. Vanko (Gabriel Curtiz) in which the ships' power and equipment are neutralized, turning them into artificial satellites of Cassa 7. Jones speculates that the pirates must be operating from a base at the nearby planet of Prah, on which no unauthorized landing has ever successfully taken place due to an unknown defense barrier. Meanwhile, on the planet Ophecius, we learn that its ruler, Queen Cleolanta (Patsy Parsons), is actually the one employing the pirates and is behind the looting of the vessels near Cassa 7. Jones and Winky seek help from Professor Newton (Maurice Cass) who offers to equip their vessel with a cloaking device utilizing "cold light" (it is explained that as heat can cause things which aren't there to visually appear, such as mirages, cold can purportedly cause objects to visually disappear). Using cold light, Jones successfully lands on Prah and discovers — after being captured by Rinkman and made an offer to join him as a pirate in exchange for the cold light device — that the pirates are actually working for someone else, although Rinkman doesn't reveal who it is. With Winky's help, Jones escapes and the two flee Prah.

Down on Cassa 7, Space Traffic Controller Ken (James Griffith) is secretly a double agent working for the pirates, and informs them of Rocky Jones' arrival. The pirates come to Cassa 7 and capture Rocky, who is bound and tied next to Ken's Martian assistant Hagar Nu, also bound and tied. Hagar Nu explains to Jones that he was kidnapped by Ken in order to frame him as the inside pirate collaborator. Jones and Hagar manage to escape, and Jones manages to trick the pirates into thinking his (still invisible) ship is no longer on the planet by switching a mark Ken had made on a platform to denote its location. Ken is captured by Jones, but manages to break free for a moment and warn the pirates over the loudspeaker. Hagar plants plastic explosives in the nozzle of the pirate's ship which will detonate on takeoff, but Jones is determined to take them alive and leaves to warn the pirates of the danger. Rinkman ignores Jones' warning and a fight ensues. The other pirates attempt to launch, but the ship doesn't respond, and a fistfight between Jones, Winky, and the pirates ensues, with Space Rangers emerging victorious. Winky reveals that he had disabled the ship's fuel pumps, thus preventing it from launching. The film ends with Winky pondering whether or not a girl is still waiting for him to go on a date, and offering to see if she has a friend for Jones.

The story is continued in "Crash of the Moons".

####Manticore (2005 film)####
####Martian Land####

In the distant future, the human race has made Earth all but uninhabitable due to pollution, the eruption of the Yellowstone volcano, and misuse of the planet's resources. Now mankind lives on Mars, in cities that resemble those once found on Earth, and are protected from the alien environment by dome-like force-fields. When a  sandstorm of record intensity  breaks through the dome and destroys Mars New York, those in Mars Los Angeles must figure out how to stop the storm before it wipes them out next. The sandstorm's power was heightened due to the terra-forming efforts on Mars reactivating long dormant volcanoes.

Dr. Foster is sent from Earth to Mars Los Angeles, "MLA," to find a solution to stopping the storm from hitting the city, but is partnered with Neil, a pilot who is dating Foster's ex-wife Miranda. Dr. Foster is more interested in cleaning up Earth, and comes up with a last ditch plan to use EMF pulses to weaken the storm. Miranda. the lead researcher based on Mars, is distracted as their teenage daughter Ellie, is trapped in the tunnels beneath the ruins of Mars New York, "MNY," with her girlfriend/life partner, Ida. The two of them are trying to find a safe passage to MLA, as the series of tunnels that once connected the cities have been blocked or destroyed. Reiger is the military commander who feels that the scientist's response in inadequate to prevent loss of life.

####The Martian (film)####
File:PIA19913-MarsLandingSite-Ares3Mission-TheMartian-2015Film-20150517.jpg|thumb|left|Ares III mission landing site (Acidalia Planitia region)


In 2035, the crew of the Ares III mission to Mars is exploring Acidalia Planitia on Martian solar day (sol)&nbsp;18 of their 31-sol expedition. A severe dust storm threatens to topple their Mars Ascent Vehicle (MAV). The mission is scrubbed, but as the crew evacuates, astronaut Mark Watney is struck by debris. The telemetry from his suit's bio-monitor is damaged and Watney is erroneously presumed dead. With the MAV (Mars Ascent Vehicle) on the verge of toppling, the remaining crew takes off for their orbiting vessel, the "Hermes".

Watney awakens after the storm, injured and with a low-oxygen warning. He returns to the crew's surface habitat ("Hab") and treats his wound. As Watney recovers, he begins a video diary. Unable to communicate with Earth, his only chance of rescue is the next Mars mission. In four years, the Ares IV will land convert|3200|km|sp=us away at the Schiaparelli crater. Watney's immediate concern is food; being a botanist, he creates a garden inside the Hab using Martian soil fertilized with the crew's bio-waste and manufactures water from leftover rocket fuel. He then cultivates potatoes using whole potatoes reserved for a special Thanksgiving  meal. He also begins modifying the rover for the journey to the Ares IV MAV site.

On Earth, NASA satellite planner Mindy Park, reviewing satellite images, notices moved equipment and realizes Watney must be alive. NASA director Teddy Sanders releases the news to the public, but decides not to tell the Ares III crew so that they will remain focused on their mission, over flight director Mitch Henderson's strong objection.

thu

Watney takes the rover on a one-month journey to retrieve the "Pathfinder" probe, which fell silent in 1997, and its associated "Sojourner" rover. Using "Pathfinder"'s camera and motor, he establishes visual contact with NASA. NASA transmits a software patch to link the mission's rover with "Pathfinder", enabling communication by text. Sanders finally allows Henderson to inform Watney's crewmates.

Mars missions director Vincent Kapoor and Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) director Bruce Ng prepare a space probe to deliver enough food for Watney to survive until Ares IV's arrival. Meanwhile, the Hab's airlock blows out, exposing the Hab to the harsh Martian environment, killing all the potato plants. Sanders orders the routine safety inspections be bypassed to save time, as a result the Atlas V rocket explodes soon after lift-off.

The China National Space Administration has developed a secret booster rocket, the "Taiyang Shen"<!-- Footnote: (lit. the "Sun God") -->. The decision is made to use the rocket to resupply Watney. Physicist Rich Purnell devises an alternative plan: have the "Taiyang Shen" rendezvous with and resupply the "Hermes", which will then use Earth's gravity to "slingshot" back to Mars two years earlier than Ares IV. Sanders rejects the idea, considering it too risky for the "Hermes" crew. Henderson surreptitiously sends Purnell's proposal to the crew; they unanimously vote to implement it without seeking NASA approval, disabling NASA's remote controls and making the course change. Sanders is forced to support them publicly, but demands Henderson resign after the Ares III mission is complete.

Watney begins the 90-sol journey to Schiaparelli, where the MAV for Ares IV has been pre-positioned. He must use it to rendezvous with the "Hermes", but it needs to be lightened considerably. After takeoff, when the MAV runs out of fuel, its velocity relative to the "Hermes" is too fast for Watney to be picked up. Commander Lewis quickly improvises, using an explosive to breach a forward airlock, resulting in air escaping violently and slowing down the "Hermes". It is still not enough; using a tethered Manned Maneuvering Unit, Lewis is unable to reach Watney. Watney pierces his pressure suit, using the escaping air to propel himself to Lewis, ending his 543 sols alone on Mars.

After returning to Earth, Watney becomes a survival instructor for astronaut candidates. Five years later, as the Ares V is about to launch, those involved in Watney's rescue are seen in their current lives.

####The Marvels####
####The Matrix####
####The Matrix Reloaded####
Six months after the events of "The Matrix", Neo and Trinity are now romantically involved. Morpheus receives a message from Captain Niobe of the "Logos" calling an emergency meeting of all ships of Zion. An army of Sentinels is tunneling towards Zion and will reach it within 72 hours. Commander Lock orders all ships to return to Zion to prepare, but Morpheus asks one ship to remain to contact the Oracle. Within the Matrix, the lone ship's crew is encountered by the former Agent Smith, who copies himself over the body of crew member Bane and uses the phone line to leave the Matrix.

In Zion, Morpheus announces the news of the advancing machines. The "Nebuchadnezzar" leaves Zion and enters the Matrix, where Neo meets the Oracle's bodyguard Seraph, who leads him to her. The Oracle reveals that she is part of the Matrix and instructs Neo to reach its Source with the help of the Keymaker. As the Oracle departs, Smith appears, telling Neo that after being defeated by him, he became a rogue program. He demonstrates his ability to clone himself over other inhabitants of the Matrix, including the new upgraded Agents. He tries to take over Neo's body but fails, prompting a battle between Neo and many copies of Smith. Neo defends himself, but is forced to retreat.

Neo, Morpheus, and Trinity visit the Merovingian, who is imprisoning the Keymaker. The Merovingian, a rogue program with his own agenda, refuses to let him go. His wife Persephone, seeking revenge on her husband for his infidelity, leads the trio to the Keymaker. Morpheus, Trinity, and the Keymaker flee while Neo holds off the Merovingian's henchmen. Morpheus and Trinity try to escape with the Keymaker, pursued by several Agents and the Merovingian's chief henchmen, the Twins. After a long chase, Trinity escapes, Morpheus defeats the Twins, and Neo saves Morpheus and the Keymaker from Agent Johnson.

The crews of the "Nebuchadnezzar", "Vigilant", and "Logos" help the Keymaker and Neo reach the Source. The "Logos" crew must destroy a power plant and the "Vigilant" crew must disable a back-up power station to bypass a security system, which will allow Neo to enter the Source. Haunted by a vision of Trinity's death, he asks her to remain on the "Nebuchadnezzar". The "Logos" is successful, but the "Vigilant" is destroyed by a Sentinel. Trinity replaces the "Vigilant" crew and completes their mission. Agent Thompson corners her and they fight. As Neo, Morpheus, and the Keymaker try to reach the Source, the Smiths ambush them. The Keymaker is killed after unlocking the door to the Source for Neo.

Neo meets a program called the Architect, the creator of the Matrix, who explains that as the One, Neo is himself an intentional part of the design of the Matrix, which is now in its sixth iteration. Neo is meant to stop the Matrix's fatal system crash that naturally recurs due to the concept of human choice within it. As with the five previous Ones, Neo has a choice: either reboot the Matrix from the Source and pick a handful of survivors to repopulate the soon-to-be-destroyed Zion, as his predecessors all did, or go to save the imperiled Trinity, causing the Matrix to crash and killing everyone in it. Neo chooses the latter, prompting a dismissive response from the Architect.

Neo's vision of Trinity comes true as she is shot by Agent Thompson while falling off a building. Before she hits the ground, Neo arrives and catches her. He then removes the bullet from her chest and restarts her heart. They return to the real world, where Sentinels attack them. The "Nebuchadnezzar" is destroyed, but the crew escape. As the Sentinels catch up to them, Neo realizes he is able to sense the machines in the real world, and telepathically destroys them but falls into a coma from the effort. The crew are picked up by another ship, the "Hammer". Its captain reveals that other ships defending Zion were wiped out by the machines after someone prematurely activated an EMP. Only one survivor was found: the Smith-possessed Bane.

####The Matrix Revolutions####

Picking up immediately where "Reloaded" ended, Neo and Bane still lie unconscious in the medical bay of the ship "Hammer". Inside the Matrix, Neo is trapped in a subway station named Mobil Ave, a transition zone between the Matrix and the machine world. He meets a "family" of programs, including a girl named Sati. The "father" tells Neo the subway is controlled by the Trainman, a program loyal to the Merovingian. When Neo tries to board a train with the family, the Trainman refuses and overpowers him.

Seraph contacts Morpheus and Trinity on behalf of the Oracle, who informs them of Neo's confinement. Seraph, Morpheus and Trinity enter Club Hel, where they confront the Merovingian and force him to release Neo. Troubled by visions of the Machine City, Neo visits the Oracle, who reveals that Smith intends to destroy both the Matrix and the real world. She tells him that "everything that has a beginning has an end." After Neo leaves, a large group of Smiths assimilates Sati and Seraph. The Oracle does not resist assimilation, and Smith gains her powers of precognition.

In the real world, the crews of the "Nebuchadnezzar" and the "Hammer" find and reactivate Niobe's ship, the "Logos". They interrogate Bane, who says that he has no recollection of the earlier massacre. As the captains plan their defense of Zion, Neo requests a ship to travel to the Machine City. Motivated by her encounter with the Oracle, Niobe offers him the "Logos". Neo departs, accompanied by Trinity. Bane, who has stowed away on the "Logos", takes Trinity hostage. Neo realizes that Bane has been assimilated by Smith, and a fight ensues. Bane burns Neo's eyes with a power cable, blinding him. Neo discovers that he can still "see" machine source code in the real world and uses this ability to kill Bane. Trinity pilots them to the Machine City.

Niobe and Morpheus rush toward Zion in the "Hammer" to aid the human defenses. Zion's shipyard is overwhelmed by a horde of Sentinels, and the fatally wounded Captain Mifune instructs Kid to open the gate for the "Hammer", which he does with the aid of Zee. When it arrives, it discharges its EMP, disabling all the Sentinels present but also Zion's remaining defenses. The humans are forced to retreat and wait for the next attack, thinking it will be their last stand.

The "Logos" is attacked by a wave of machines outside of the Machine City. To avoid the onslaught, they fly above them to open sky, and then crash into a building, fatally wounding Trinity. Neo enters the Machine City and encounters the leadership of the machines in the form of the "Deus Ex Machina." Neo warns that Smith plans to conquer both the Matrix and the real world and offers to stop Smith in exchange for peace with Zion. The Deus Ex Machina agrees, and the Sentinels shut down, stopping the attack on Zion.

The Machines plug Neo into the Matrix, whose population has now been entirely assimilated by Smith. The Smith with the Oracle's powers steps forth, telling Neo that he has foreseen his victory against Neo. After a protracted fight, Neo appears to concede defeat and allows himself to be assimilated. Outside the Matrix, the machines send a surge of energy into Neo's body, which inside the Matrix causes the Neo-Smith clone, then all the other Smith clones, to be destroyed, leaving the Oracle lying there and causing Neo's life to be sacrificed. The Sentinels withdraw from Zion, Morpheus and Niobe embrace, and Neo's body is carried away by the machines.

The Matrix is rebooted, and the Architect meets the Oracle in a park. They agree that the peace will last "as long as it can" and that those humans who desire it will be offered the opportunity to leave the Matrix. The Oracle tells Sati (who created a beautiful sunrise for Neo) that she thinks they will see Neo again. Seraph asks the Oracle if she knew this would happen. She replies that she did not know, but she believed.

####The Matrix Resurrections####
####Max Knight: Ultra Spy####
####Max Steel (film)####

Teenager Max McGrath moves with his mother Molly to the town of Copper Canyon, where he was born and where his father Jim McGrath died in a supposed storm. In his first few days at school, he realizes that almost everyone in town knows more about Jim than he does because his mother refuses to talk about Jim's past or death. During dinner with Jim's friend Miles Edwards, Max learns that his father worked for N-TEK, an advanced research company now run by Miles. Concurrently after arriving, Max discovers he emits a unique form of tachyonic energy called TURBO which is powerful enough to overload any electrical item, but he has no control over when he emits it. After sensing an oncoming overload during a date with classmate Sofia, Max encounters an amnesiac alien creature named Steel, who symbiotically bonds with Max to absorb the energy.

Finding themselves chased by mysterious men, Max takes Steel to his high school to hide and finds himself opening up emotionally for the first time in his life. Max learns to control and harness his powers, including linking with Steel to form a suit of armor. While linked, Max starts to see his father's life through flashbacks shared with Steel and learns that an alien race called the Ultralinks with the power to manipulate the elements launched an attack on N-TEK. In search of answers, Max goes there to visit Miles, who explains that Jim was working on creating a generator capable of creating an unlimited source of power, and suggests that Jim died in an accident caused by not following safety procedures. Feeling another energy spike, Max finds solace but is soon caught in a powerful storm, which he realizes is an Ultralink. Working together, Max and Steel defeat the Ultralink and, to their shock, find it looks identical to Steel. Another flashback hints that Steel was responsible for Jim's death, causing Max to lash out at Steel and walk away.

Max discovers Molly is missing, borrows Sofia's car, and calls Miles, who reveals he is aware of the Ultralinks and that Molly was kidnapped as a trap for Max at the old N-TEK Facility where Jim died. Max goes to the facility and finds Steel captured, where he has a flashback that shows the truth: Jim McGrath was an alien who naturally generated TURBO, Steel was his partner, and the power generator was a machine designed to harness and focus his natural energy; however, Miles became addicted to infusing the TURBO for the power it gave him, and allied with the Ultralinks to absorb Jim's energy for himself. Jim overloaded the core to stop Miles and, with his final words, told Steel to find and protect Max at all costs.

Miles entraps Max, having created a suit of armor that drains TURBO, seeking to harvest the energy for himself. Learning to use his armored form as Max Steel, Max fights Miles aided by the mysterious men, revealed to be an N-TEK Special Forces Squad who were working for Miles to find Steel, but are now working for Molly (as majority shareholder of the company). Working together, Max and Steel generate so much energy that Miles is unable to absorb it, overloading him in a massive explosion. Molly reveals that after Jim's death, she feared the Ultralinks would come after Max, so she constantly moved until Miles suggested they move back to Copper Canyon in case Max started to emit TURBO. Max apologizes to Sofia for his behavior and makes a date for that night, then goes for a flight in the armor with Steel's assistance.

####The Maze Runner (film)####

A teenage boy wakes up inside an underground elevator with no memory of his identity, and greeted by several male youths in a large grass area, called the "Glade," enclosed by tall stone walls. The "Gladers" have formed a rudimentary society, and each assumes specialized tasks. The boy learns that a vast Maze surrounding them is the only way out. During the day, designated Runners search the Maze for an escape route and return before nightfall when the entrance closes. After a competitive fight with Gally, the boy remembers his name is Thomas. The next day, he is attacked by Ben, a Runner who has been stung and left delirious by a Griever, one of the techno-organic creatures that roam the Maze at night. Ben is forced into the Maze and left to die as a direct consequence of his actions, along with there being no cure for his condition. Alby, the leader, and Minho, the lead Runner, later retrace Ben's steps inside the Maze the following morning. Minho reappears late in the afternoon dragging Alby, who has been stung, but are unable to reach the closing entrance in time. Thomas runs into the Maze to help, which leaves all three trapped. Thomas lures a Griever into a closing passageway, which causes it to be crushed. The three manage to survive the night and return the next morning.

A girl arrives in the elevator, with a note saying that she is the last one to enter the Glade, and recognizes Thomas, but he cannot remember her. Thomas, Minho, Frypan, Winston, and Zart enter the Maze, locate the Griever corpse, and remove a beeping mechanical device from inside it. Gally claims that Thomas has jeopardized the fragile peace between the Gladers and the Grievers, and wants him punished. However, Newt, the group's second-in-command, instead designates Thomas as a Runner. Minho shows Thomas a hand-constructed model of the Maze that is based on previous explorations. The Maze's numbered sections open and close in a regular sequence and Thomas realizes that the device corresponds to a section of the Maze.

The girl, Teresa, has two syringes filled with an unknown substance. One is used on Alby, and he recovers from the Griever sting. Minho and Thomas venture back into the Maze with the device and discover a possible exit. Several traps are activated, forcing Thomas and Minho to leave. That night, the Maze entrance does not close, and others open, allowing the Grievers to enter. Alby, Zart, Clint, and several others die and Gally blames Thomas for the events. Thomas, who has been having disconnected memory flashes since his arrival, stabs himself with a severed Griever stinger in an attempt to revive his memory before he is injected with the last anti-venom. Unconscious, he recalls that he and Teresa worked for the organization that created the Maze, WCKD, and the boys unknowingly have been test subjects for an experiment. Thomas awakens and confesses that he and Teresa worked with WCKD and studied the boys for years.

Meanwhile, Gally has taken command and intends to sacrifice Thomas and Teresa to the Grievers to restore peace. However, several Gladers free them and enter the Maze, but Gally and a few others refuse to leave. As they attempt to access a possible exit, Jeff and several other Gladers are killed by Grievers. The Gladers eventually enter a laboratory strewn with corpses. In a video recording, Ava Paige, a WCKD official, explains that the planet has been devastated by a massive solar flare, followed by a pandemic of a deadly virus, the Flare. The group learns that they were part of an experiment intended to develop a cure. Paige is seen shooting herself in the video as the lab is overtaken by armed men. Gally, having been stung by a Griever, appears, insists that they will never be free, and points a gun at Thomas. Minho impales Gally in the chest with a spear, but he fatally shoots Chuck. While Thomas mourns over Chuck, masked armed men then rush in and take the group to a helicopter. It flies over a vast desert wasteland and approaches a ruined city.

Later, the supposedly dead scientists meet in a room. Paige notes that the experiment has been successful and the survivors are now entering Phase Two.

####Maze Runner: The Death Cure####
####Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials####
A mother drops off her scared reluctant son, Thomas, with the scientist Ava Paige and troops of the organization WCKD. Thomas and other abandoned children are placed in a walled maze in a place known as the Glade as part of its scientific testing.

Years later, shortly after being rescued from the Maze, Thomas and the remaining Gladers (Teresa, Newt, Minho, Frypan and Winston) are taken to a facility run by Mr. Janson. He says that the facility is a haven protecting them from the Flare virus and the "Cranks", and provides the supplies. Under Mr. Janson's care, they discover that they were not the only Gladers and that many more mazes were constructed, aside from their own. Thomas becomes suspicious of Mr. Janson and investigates. With help from Aris, the first maze survivor to arrive in the facility (from another maze), Thomas discovers that WCKD's leader, Ava, is still alive and that Mr. Janson is working for WCKD when they discuss experiments on the Immunes and that Janson has yet to find the Right Arm, a resistance group in the mountains. The group, including Aris, escapes the facility to the deserted outside world, the Scorch. Mr. Janson orders WCKD troops to track them down.

The group arrives at an abandoned shopping mall and encounters the Cranks, humans zombified by the Flare virus. Winston gets infected by one of them. When morning comes, they find the city in ruins and the WCKD still searching for them. Winston's infection becomes worse, which forces the others to let him kill himself to prevent his transformation. While crossing the desert, the group takes shelter in the abandoned facility as a deadly lightning storm hits, nearly killing them all. Inside, they discover that it is filled with chained Cranks. The group meets Brenda and Jorge, who leads a dangerous band of survivors and have used the Cranks as guard dogs. Brenda and Jorge agree to take them to the Right Arm and abandon their group of survivors. Minutes later, WCKD, led by Janson, storms the place, only for the facility to be destroyed by Jorge's explosives. Thomas and Brenda are left behind, as the rest escape with Jorge. As Thomas and Brenda escape the Cranks, Brenda is infected. Thomas experiences a flashback of him and Teresa working for WCKD in which Thomas tries to warn Teresa of WCKD's plans, only for both to be separated by WCKD's troops. As Thomas and Brenda reunite with the rest of the group, Jorge interrogates Marcus, a survivor who secretly works for WCKD, into revealing the location of the Right Arm.<ref name="wiki plot" />

The group eventually arrives at a road block, where several people shoot at them. As Jorge is about to activate a device, a woman asks him to drop the device, aims her rifle at him, freezes when she recognizes Aris, and reveals herself to be Harriet. She and Sonya take Brenda, Aris, Jorge and the Gladers to the Right Arm's outpost relief camps, where other immune survivors are present. Vince, who leads the Right Arm, greets them. As Brenda's infection gets worse, Vince threatens to shoot her, only to be stopped by Mary Cooper, a former WCKD scientist who reveals that Thomas was their informant, who has also helped the Right Arm take down WCKD's illegal major operations ever since. As Mary halts Brenda's infection by using an enzyme cure, Mary explains that the enzyme must be harvested from an Immune's body, not manufactured and that arguments over the methods of manufacturing the cure with Ava led to Mary's departure from WCKD. That evening, Teresa tells WCKD of her location since she believes that WCKD's motivations are good, which leads to an ambush by WCKD. Soldiers quickly overwhelm the Right Arm Rebels and line up the survivors in front of Ava Paige and Janson, who arrive in a berg (a very large aerial vehicle employed by WCKD as transportation). Teresa explains to Thomas that she got her memories back from WCKD whilst with Mr. Janson. Mary is shot and killed by Janson, and WCKD troops take the immune survivors for experimentation, including Minho, Sonya and Aris. With only a fraction of survivors left at the site, Thomas plans to infiltrate WCKD.<ref name="wiki plot" />

####MEAD (film)####
In the distant future, Friz and his symbiotically linked spaceship MEAD (Mobile Extrasensory Autonomous Deceptor) are on the run from a group of bounty hunters. Using a series of telepathically projected illusions, they are able to evade their pursuers, but unwitting cause the bounty hunters to destroy their own spaceship.

They see a person in a spacesuit floating among the wreckage, however, and decide to bring its unconscious occupant aboard. Removing the spacesuit, they discover that its wearer is in fact an escaped prison inmate named Phoebe, whom the bounty hunters had previously captured. She awakens and reveals that she knows who they are and that they are wanted on every planet in the solar system. Suspicious of her new captors at first, Phoebe begins to trust Friz and MEAD as they tell her the story of their escape from a military testing facility.

MEAD, it turns out, was designed as a weapon of war, but, thanks to the pacifistic tendencies of his original programmer Tam, would not kill for the military. This enraged the director of the program Admiral Gillette, who responded by trying to decommission MEAD and imprisoning Friz. They were rescued by Tam, who had fallen in love with Friz over their time together. During their escape, however, Gillette murdered Tam and critically injured Friz. MEAD responded by closing a door on Gillette, severing his hand from his arm, which they now keep as a prize.

Having learned their backstory, Phoebe decides not to steal their shuttle or turn them in for the ransom.

Running low on fuel, the trio decide to steal dark matter energy from Ganymede base, where they know Admiral Gillette will be waiting for them. Once again using a series of projected illusions, including one of a popular children's toy Timmy the Wunderbot, they are able to evade the base security and steal enough dark matter energy to last them indefinitely.

Admiral Gillette pursues MEAD and Friz into space aboard a large spaceship named Achilles and, unbeknownst to them, carries with him a special helmet that allows him to differentiate reality from their illusions. While they are able to deceive other members of Gillette's crew with their illusions, including his second-in-command Sternhagen, Gillette is able to direct them enough to fire some damaging shots at MEAD. Phoebe attempts to repair MEAD by connecting a dark matter pod they had earlier stolen from Ganymede, but is shocked in the process.

Instead of trying to fool the crew of what's happening outside the ship, Friz and MEAD instead project an illusion of Gillette on the bridge as hideous monster so that the crew won't listen to his commands. Despite the chaos aboard their vessel, the Achilles crew are still able to deliver a crippling shot at MEAD.

Sternhagen and the rest of the bridge crew, deciding they've finally had enough of his vendetta, turn on Gillette and try to force him to break off his mad pursuit. A firefight ensues, resulting in the deaths of everyone aboard the bridge—including Admiral Gillette.

MEAD slowly deactivates, revealing that Friz's good looks were an illusion to cover the hideous burns he'd received while first escaping from Gillette. He tells Phoebe to leave sinks into despair as she flies off in the shuttle to surrender herself to the surviving crew of the Achilles.

While Friz is unconscious, however, MEAD is able to restore power using the dark matter pod Phoebe had connected earlier. While first suggesting they could go anywhere they like, MEAD and Friz decide to return to rescue Phoebe from prison.

####Meg 2: The Trench####
####The Meg####
####Megafault####
####Megaforce####
The story involves two fictional countries, the peaceful Republic of Sardun and their aggressive neighbor Gamibia. Unable to defend themselves from a Gamibian incursion, Sardun sends Major Zara and General Byrne-White to ask the help of MegaForce – a secret army composed of international soldiers from throughout the western world, equipped with advanced weapons and vehicles. The MegaForce leader, Commander Ace Hunter, will lead a mission to destroy the Gamibian forces, which are led by his rival, and former military academy friend, Duke Guerera.

While Hunter composes an elaborate battle plan to destroy Guerera's forces, Zara tries out to become a member of MegaForce. As she executes the various tests, Hunter's feelings of affection toward her grow.  And while she passes the tests, he is unable to allow her to participate in their raid, because her presence, as an outsider, would disrupt the trust and familiarity of his force.

Eventually, MegaForce successfully para-drops its attack vehicles into Gamibia and Hunter mounts his sneak attack against Guerera's forces. Although they manage to destroy his base, they are told by General Byrne-White that Sardun has decided they will not be allowed to cross the border into their country because they consider MegaForce too dangerous a global organization.

At the same time, Guerera has set a trap for them at the team's only means of escape – a dry lake bed where the cargo planes will pick them up. Guerera sends his tanks to secure the lake bed while Hunter comes up with a plan to attack Guerera from behind by crossing over a mountain range the enemy tanks had turned their backs toward.

The plan succeeds, and MegaForce manages to break through Guerera's tanks, but one of MegaForce's cargo planes is damaged in the process. Having to abandon their high-tech vehicles (which they program to self-destruct), the team successfully makes it on foot to the last plane, except for Hunter. The commander, instead, makes his own dramatic escape on his motorcycle after it deploys airfoils and a rocket motor and catches up with the cargo plane in midair. Although he has lost the battle, Guerera shows admiration for Hunter's cunning, and he gives his old friend a thumbs up.

####Meltdown (2004 film)####
####Memory Run####
####Men in Black (1997 film)####

thu
At the Mexico–United States border, two men in black suits, Agent K and Agent D, interrupt a border patrol sting. They take one of the men attempting to cross the border, who is an extraterrestrial in disguise. When it tries to attack one of the patrol officers, K is forced to shoot it and erase the memories of everyone in the group, creating a cover story of an explosion in an underground gas pipeline. Deciding that he is too old to continue working, D chooses to retire and has K erase his memory.

NYPD officer James Darrell Edwards III catches an unnaturally agile fleeing criminal and sees his eyes blink unusually before he leaps from the roof of the Guggenheim Museum. During his interrogation, K arrives and scouts James as a potential new partner, impressed by his ability to chase down an alien. K explains to James that their organization, the Men in Black, was founded after first contact was made with aliens in 1961; at this time Earth was established as a politically neutral zone for alien refugees.

The MIB is a secret organization that monitors and polices these aliens and uses neuralyzers to erase the memories of anyone who witnesses alien activities. James agrees to join, taking a new identity as Agent J, and his civilian identity is erased from government records.

Meanwhile, an alien crash-lands in upstate New York, kills a farmer named Edgar, and begins wearing his skin as a disguise. J and K investigate the crash site and discover this alien is a "bug," an extremely dangerous, cockroach-like species. The bug kills two disguised aliens, who are sent to a city morgue overseen by coroner Laurel Weaver. J and K inspect the bodies, and J and Laurel accidentally open the head of one, revealing a small, injured alien in a control cockpit. The alien tells them "To prevent war, the galaxy is on Orion's belt." before dying.

K neuralyzes Laurel and tells J that the other dead alien, Rosenberg, was a member of the Arquillian royal family. They question an informant, Frank the Pug, who explains that Rosenberg was the guardian of a galaxy that is a precious source of sub-atomic energy; the bug killed Rosenberg to acquire it so the bugs may destroy the Arquillians. Frank also tells them that the galaxy is on Earth and is very small. An Arquillian warship enters Earth's orbit, issuing an ultimatum to MIB to give them the galaxy.

J deduces the galaxy is in a jewel on the collar of Rosenberg's cat, Orion, which is in Laurel's care. The bug reaches the same conclusion and arrives at the morgue first; it seizes and swallows the galaxy and flees with Laurel. The Arquillians, who are willing to destroy the galaxy rather than let the bugs have it, warn MIB that they will destroy Earth in one hour unless the galaxy is returned.

With all other transports locked down, J realizes the bug's only escape is the observation towers of the New York State Pavilion at Flushing Meadows, which was built for the 1964 New York World's Fair to disguise two real flying saucers. The bug attempts to take off, but J and K shoot down the ship, and the bug sheds Edgar's skin to reveal its true form while expanding greatly in size. It swallows J and K's guns, and K goads it to swallow him as well. The bug begins to board the second ship. J steps on cockroaches from a dumpster to antagonize it, stalling it until K finds his gun in its stomach and shoots it from inside. The remains of the bug attack the two, but Laurel destroys it with J's gun.

After recovering the galaxy from the bug's remains, K admits to J that he is ready to retire from MIB and has been training J as a replacement rather than a partner. After bidding each other farewell, J neuralyzes K, creating a cover story that he was in a coma for 35 years. Laurel joins MIB as J's new partner, Agent L. The entire Milky Way galaxy proves to be contained within a marble that a giant alien is using to play a game.

####Men in Black II####
Five years after the first film, Agent J has become a top agent but has developed a habit of neuralyzing partners he feels are emotionally unfit to cope with the work. When he is called to investigate the murder of an alien, Ben, at his pizzeria, waitress Laura Vasquez tells him that the murderers are Serleena, a shapeshifting, plant-like Kylothian who has taken the form of a Victoria's Secret lingerie model, and her two-headed servant Scrad and Charlie. Laura says they were looking for something called the Light of Zartha. J is strongly attracted to Laura, and in violation of MiB rules, does not neuralyze her to erase her memories.

J finds that little is known about the Light of Zartha, except that it is immensely powerful. As he investigates the crime, every lead points to his former partner and mentor, Agent K, who was neuralyzed upon retirement five years previously and remembers nothing of his MIB service. In Truro, Massachusetts, where K is now the town's postmaster, J convinces him of his past by proving that all of his fellow postal workers are aliens.

Back in New York City, Serleena, along with Scrad and Charlie, launches an attack on MIB headquarters before K's neuralyzation can be reversed, but Jack Jeebs has an illegal deneuralyzer in his basement. K eventually regains his memories but remembers that years before, he neuralyzed himself specifically to erase what he knew of the Light of Zartha and those memories have not returned. As a precaution, he left himself a series of clues.

At the pizzeria, they find a locker key. J and K fear for Laura's safety and hide her with the worms. The key opens a locker in Grand Central Terminal where a society of tiny aliens, who worship K as their deity, guard their most sacred relics: K's wristwatch and video store membership card.

At the store, as J and K watch a fictionalized story of the Light of Zartha, K remembers the Zarthan Queen Lauranna long ago entrusted Men in Black with safeguarding the Light from her nemesis, Serleena, who followed Lauranna to Earth and killed her. After hiding the Light, a grief-stricken K neuralyzed himself, both to bury his sadness and to ensure that he would never reveal its hiding place. K still cannot remember where he hid it nor what the Light looks like. Thinking it might be Laura's bracelet, he only remembers that it must return to Zartha soon or both Earth and Zartha will be destroyed.

At the worms' apartment, they find that Laura has been captured by Serleena. With the worms, they counterattack MIB headquarters, freeing Laura and the other agents. Serleena attempts to retaliate by chasing them with a spaceship through New York but is eaten by Jeff, a gigantic worm alien living in the New York City Subway.

Laura's bracelet leads J and K to the roof of a skyscraper where a ship stands ready to transport the Light back to Zartha. K reveals that Laura is the daughter of Lauranna (and, it is implied, his daughter) and that she's also the Light. K convinces J and Laura that she must go to Zartha to save both her planet and Earth from destruction. Serleena, who has absorbed Jeff and taken his form, attempts to snatch the ship carrying Laura as it lifts off, but J and K blast her out of the sky. Since all of New York City has just witnessed this battle in the skies over the metropolis, K activates a giant neuralyzer in the torch of the Statue of Liberty.

Back at MIB headquarters, J finds the tiny locker-dwelling aliens now in his locker, moved there by K and Chief Zed in an attempt to give him some perspective. When J suggests showing the miniature creatures that their universe is bigger than a locker, K kicks open a door and reveals that the human universe is itself a locker within an immense alien train station.

####Men in Black: International####

In 1996 Brooklyn, Molly Wright as a young girl witnesses her parents being neuralyzed by agents of Men in Black after they see an alien in their home. Molly helps the alien escape, avoiding neuralyzation herself. Twenty-three years later, rejected from government agencies due to her "delusions" regarding alien life, Molly tracks down an alien landing and follows MIB agents to their headquarters in New York City. Caught entering the agency, Molly makes an impression on Agent O after revealing she had bypassed neuralyzation, arguing that her obsessive search for them makes her 'perfect' for the job and she has no life outside her search for the agency. She is awarded probationary agent status as "Agent M" and assigned to the organization's London branch.

There, M meets T as High, head of the London branch, and Agent H. M learns that H and T (before he was High) fought off an invasion of the Hive – a parasitic race who invade planets by merging with the DNA of the conquered species – at the Eiffel Tower in 2016, using a wormhole included in the original migration to Earth; H has since become unconcerned with his duties and only keeping his job due to High T covering for him. M arranges for herself to be assigned to assist H in his meeting with Vungus the Ugly, his close friend and alien royalty. During their night out with Vungus, they are accosted by mysterious alien twins able to manifest as pure energy. They fatally injure Vungus, who gives M a strange crystal before he dies, claiming that H has changed since they last met and cannot be trusted. M points out that few people knew Vungus' location, and he was likely betrayed by one of the agents present when High T assigned H to guard him. Nervous at the possibility of a traitor within MiB, High T assigns Agents C and M to investigate while H is demoted to desk duty, with evidence suggesting that the twins had DNA traces of the Hive.

H convinces M to join him in following a lead to Marrakesh, where they recover "Pawny", the last survivor of a small group of aliens attacked by the Twins. Pawny pledges loyalty to M, and they are trapped by MiB agents coordinated by C, who recovered video footage of Vungus passing the crystal to M and believes she is the traitor. With the aid of alien contacts Nasr and Bassam, H escapes with M and Pawny on a rocket-powered bike, and they learn that Vungus’ crystal is a weapon powered by a compressed blue giant. As they repair the damaged bike, Bassam steals the weapon and takes it to Riza Stavros, an alien arms dealer and H's ex-girlfriend. Traveling to Riza's island fortress, the trio attempts to infiltrate the base, but is caught by Riza and her bodyguard Luca Brasi. Luca, the alien M rescued as a child, returns the favor by allowing them to leave with the weapon while he keeps Riza contained. The three are cornered by the Twins, who are killed by High T and a group of agents.

Although the case appears concluded, H and M review the evidence and realize that the Twins' phrases suggest they required the weapon to use "against" the Hive, especially when the only evidence of Hive DNA was provided by High T. They discover High T has deleted the case file and not sent the weapon to evidence, and has gone to the Eiffel Tower with the weapon. C also realizes High T's deception and allows H and M to follow High T to the Eiffel Tower. As they travel to the reopened wormhole, M's questioning of H's memory of the Hive's defeat reveals he was neuralyzed when the Hive converted T into one of their own during the battle. The High T/Hive hybrid activates a wormhole to draw the Hive to Earth, but H draws out High T's true personality long enough for M to use the weapon at full capacity to destroy High T and the Hive infestation trying to reach Earth.

With the truth of High T's conversion exposed, Agent O joins H and M in Paris, where she grants M full agent status and appoints H probationary head of MiB's London branch.

####Meteor (film)####
After the asteroid Orpheus in the Asteroid Belt is hit by a comet, dozens of asteroid fragments are sent on a collision course towards Earth, along with a five-mile wide fragment which will cause an extinction-level event. While the United States government engages in political maneuvering, the smaller asteroid fragments preceding the main body wreak havoc on the planet, revealing the threat. The United States has a secret orbiting nuclear missile platform satellite named "Hercules", which was designed by Dr. Paul Bradley. It was intended to defend Earth against a threat like Orpheus, but instead was commandeered by the U.S. Armed Forces to become an orbiting weapon now aimed at the Soviet Union. After many calculations, it is determined that the fourteen nuclear missiles on board Hercules are not enough to stop the asteroid.

The United States has known that the Soviet Union also has a similar weapons satellite called "Peter the Great" in orbit, with its sixteen nuclear warheads pointed down at the United States.  Needing the additional firepower to stop Orpheus, the President goes on national television and reveals the existence of "Hercules", explaining it was created to meet the threat that Orpheus represents.  He also offers the Soviets a chance to save face by announcing they, too, had the same program and their own satellite weapon.  To coordinate the counter-effort between the two countries, Bradley requests a Soviet scientist named Dr. Alexei Dubov.

Bradley and Harry Sherwood of NASA meet at the control center for "Hercules", located beneath 195 Broadway in Lower Manhattan. Major General Adlon is the commander of the facility. Dubov and his interpreter Tatiana Donskaya arrive, and Bradley gets to work on breaking the ice between them. Since Dubov cannot admit the existence of the Soviet device, he agrees to Bradley's proposal that they work on the "theoretical application" of how a "theoretical" Soviet space platform's weapons would be coordinated with the American platform.

Meanwhile, more meteorite fragments strike Earth (one inside Siberia), and the Soviets finally agree to join in the effort. Both satellites are coordinated, and turned towards the incoming large asteroid as smaller fragments continue to strike the planet, causing great damage, including a deadly avalanche in the Swiss Alps and a tsunami which devastates Hong Kong. With hours remaining prior to Orpheus' impact, as planned, "Peter the Great"'s missiles are launched first because of its relative position to the asteroid, with "Hercules"'s missiles timed to be fired 40 minutes later.

Immediately prior to "Hercules"'s missiles being launched, a splinter fragment is discovered to be heading towards the command center in New York City.  If the center is destroyed, "Hercules" will not be able to launch. With seconds to spare, "Hercules" receives the signal to fire from the command center, and launches its missiles.  The splinter impacts the city, destroying the top half of the World Trade Center twin towers in a direct hit, and creating a large crater in Central Park. Several workers inside the control center are killed when the facility is partially destroyed by the collapse of the building above, and the survivors are forced to work their way out of the control center by going through the New York subway system, which becomes a trap due to water from the East River flooding the tunnels. Meanwhile, the two flights of missiles link up into three successively larger waves. The "Hercules" crew reaches a crowded subway station and waits while others try to dig them out.

Eventually, the missiles reach the meteoroid. The first wave of missiles strikes the rock, causing a small explosion, the second wave follows with a larger blast, and the third wave creates an enormous explosion. When the dust clears, the asteroid appears obliterated. In New York City, the radios broadcast the good news: Orpheus is no longer a danger to Earth. Just then, the subway station occupants are rescued.

Later, at an airport, Dubov, Tatiana, Bradley and others exchange goodbyes before Dubov and Tatiana depart on a plane for the Soviet Union.

####Meteor Apocalypse####
A long-period comet is determined to be on a collision course with Earth. All of the world's nuclear states fire intercontinental ballistic missiles at the comet but only succeed in breaking it into fragments. Pieces of the comet soon begin to impact the ground.

Research scientist David Dmatti (Joe Lando) is asleep when his co-worker Mark calls him and requests urgent help. He arrives at his workplace to find Mark suffering from convulsions. David realizes that there are toxins in the water. Mark dies before David narrowly avoids a meteor shower that kills the paramedics and destroys his work site.

David's daughter Alison (Madison McLaughlin) also becomes ill after drinking the water. Afterwards, the United States government discovers that the comet carries a deadly pathogen that has contaminated Lake Mead and orders a quarantine. David is separated from wife Kate (Claudia Christian) and Alison as they are taken away. He escapes from the troops and makes his way to the Las Vegas Valley to find a colleague who is working on an antidote.

On the way to Las Vegas, David finds and revives an unconscious young woman named Lynn (Cooper Harris) at a gas station. He learns that she is also suffering from the illness and brings her with him. When they arrive, they watch as most of the city is destroyed by a meteor shower and learn the quarantined were transferred to Los Angeles. David is able to get an experimental antidote for the mysterious illness and gives some of it to Lynn.

When it is discovered that the largest comet fragment will most likely hit Los Angeles, a panicked evacuation is begun. The United States Secretary of Homeland Security cancels the evacuation to conserve resources, but his team defies his order and continues to assist with the evacuation. A pastor convinces David and Lynn to seek shelter for the night at her church before they leave the next day. David uses the experimental antidote to save a girl, and learns from her mother about a location where his wife and daughter might be. He and Lynn narrowly escape as more meteorites destroy the church.

Lynn dies from her illness after having saved the antidote for Alison. David overcomes his fear of heights and scales a steep cliff to find his wife and daughter. He uses the antidote to treat Alison's illness, and the three watch from a safe distance as the final fragment strikes the city.

####The Meteor Man (film)####
Jefferson Reed (Robert Townsend) is a mild-mannered school teacher in Washington, D.C. His neighborhood is terrorized by a local gang called "The Golden Lords", led by  Simon Caine (Roy Fegan) and allied with drug lord Anthony Byers (Frank Gorshin). One night, Jeff steps in to rescue a woman from the gang only to end up running from them himself. Hiding in a garbage dumpster, he manages to escape. As he climbs out, he is struck down by a glowing, green meteorite. His spine is crushed and he receives severe burns. A small fragment of the meteor was left over and taken by a vagrant named Marvin (Bill Cosby). Reed awakens several days later in the hospital, but when his bandages are taken off, he is miraculously healed of all injuries.

Jeff soon discovered that the meteorite had left him with spectacular superpowers such as flight, x-ray/laser vision, superhuman strength, speed, and hearing, invulnerability, healing powers, the ability to absorb a book's content by touch, super breath, telepathy with dogs (which he uses to communicate with his own dog Ellington), and telekinesis. Confiding this to his parents Ted (Robert Guillaume) and Maxine (Marla Gibbs), they convince him to use his powers to help the community. His mother designs a costume and as the Meteor Man, he takes on the Golden Lords. He shuts down 15 crack houses, stops 11 robberies, brings peace between the police, the Crips (Cypress Hill), and the Bloods (Naughty by Nature) where they begin to work together to rebuild the community they destroyed, and plants a giant garden in the middle of the ghetto.

The Golden Lords learn Meteor Man's secret identity and his slowly diminishing powers. As the violence gets out of hand and the Golden Lords continue their attacks, the community members plan to make a deal with them, but Jeff instead teaches them about fighting for their beliefs. A now-powerless Jeff fights Simon and is beaten up. Simon points his gun at Jeff, but Jeff's neighbor Earnest Moses (James Earl Jones) throws a record at him, successfully knocking the gun out of Simon's hand. Suddenly, Marvin uses the meteor fragment to strip the Golden Lords of their guns. This enables the locals to stand up to the Golden Lords as they fight them alongside Marvin's dogs. Marvin accidentally drops the meteor and both Jeff and Simon grab the rock from both sides, gaining superpowers, and engage in a brawl.

When Simon is about to throw a dumpster at Jeff, he hears Ellington barking, telling Jeff that he can win, and throws the dumpster at Ellington instead, seriously injuring him. This angers Jeff and he disappears and returns as Meteor Man. They continue with their brawl with Meteor Man winning and draining Simon of his powers by absorbing them. He then defeats the rest of the Golden Lords. The locals all gather around Ellington who is now lying on the street, whimpering in pain. Jeff uses his x-ray vision to see that Ellington's ribs are broken. Before Jeff can do anything, his powers fade away, again. But just then, Marvin comes over and uses the last of his powers from the meteor fragment to heal Ellington's injuries, thus saving Ellington's life. The locals all applaud.

Anthony Byers and his gang then confront Meteor Man, but are out-numbered by the Bloods and the Crips who show up to protect Meteor Man. Anthony Byers and his gang are then arrested by the police after attempting to "take a vacation to the Bahamas".

####Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie####
The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers participate with Bulk and Skull in a charity skydive for the Angel Grove observatory, in anticipation of Ryan's Comet which is scheduled to pass by in two days. Bulk and Skull miss the target landing zone and accidentally land at a construction site where a giant purple egg has been unearthed. Lord Zedd, Rita Repulsa, Goldar and Mordant arrive at the construction site and crack open the egg, releasing Ivan Ooze, a morphological being who ruled Earth 6,000 years ago before he was lured into a hyper-lock chamber and buried deep underground by Zordon and a group of young warriors. The Rangers find and confront him, but Ivan unleashes some ooze monsters on them. While the Rangers battle and successfully defeat them, the fight distracts them long enough to allow Ivan to escape and lay siege to the Command Center, incapacitating Zordon, and robbing the Rangers of their powers. As the Rangers return to the Command Center, they find it destroyed and Zordon, being outside his time warp, aging and dying.

Zordon's assistant Alpha 5 sends the Rangers to the distant planet Phaedos to obtain the Great Power and save Zordon. On the Moon, Ivan usurps Rita and Zedd, shrinking and trapping them in a snow globe, and forces Goldar and Mordant to be his servants, then sends his Tengu warriors to Phaedos and begins building an army. He uses children to bring his ooze to their parents, and it hypnotizes them into becoming his workforce to dig up his Ecto-Morphicons, twin war machines built during his reign. When Fred Kelman, a friend of the Rangers, discovers his father missing, he finds him working at the construction site and discovers Ivan's plans.

On Phaedos, the Rangers are almost killed by the Tengu but are rescued by Dulcea, Phaedos' Master Warrior. She initially tells them to leave for their safety, but after hearing of Zordon's plight, she agrees to help them and takes them to an ancient ruined temple where the Rangers will have to overcome obstacles to acquire the power of the Ninjetti. Dulcea awakens each Rangers' animal spirit; Aisha is the bear, Rocky is the ape, Billy is the wolf, Kimberly is the crane, Adam is the frog, and Tommy is the falcon. Upon being asked if she could join them, Dulcea informs the Rangers that she would begin to age as rapidly as Zordon is at the moment if she steps beyond the temple. She then shapeshifts into an owl to preserve her age. The Rangers make their way to the Monolith housing the Great Power, using their wits to defeat a live fossilized dinosaur skeleton, and then, the temple's Stone Gargoyle guardians, and retrieve the Great Power, restoring their suits.

On Earth, Ivan's Ecto-Morphicons are completely unearthed, and he unleashes them on Angel Grove, ordering the parents to walk off a cliff at the construction site. Fred recruits Bulk, Skull, and the other kids, who head to the construction site to save their parents. The Rangers return with their new animal-themed Ninja Zords and, after a difficult struggle, destroy one of Ivan's Ecto-Morphicons, Scorpitron. Ivan takes control of Hornitor and battles the Rangers himself as they combine their Zords to form the Ninja Megazord and later the Ninja Falcon Megazord. Meanwhile, the kids push the parents back while Fred, with help from Bulk and Skull, sprays them with a large amount of water. The Rangers lure Ivan into space and knock him right into the path of Ryan's Comet, which destroys him. Ivan's death breaks his spell on the parents, who are reunited with their children. The Rangers return to the Command Center but are distraught to find Zordon has died. They use the Great Power to restore the Command Center and resurrect Zordon, returning him to his time warp. Everything returns to normal in Angel Grove as a celebration is held at the Harbor with fireworks and a message saying "Thank You Power Rangers" which offends Bulk and Skull.

In a mid-credits scene, Goldar briefly lounges on Zedd's throne, being served by Mordant, only to panic when Zedd and Rita appear, having been released after Ivan was destroyed.

####Minority Report (film)####
####Mission to Mars####
In 2020, the "Mars I" mission launches for planet Mars, commanded by Luke Graham. Upon arrival, the team discovers a bright white formation in the Cydonia region, which they suspect is an extrusion from a subsurface geothermal column of water, useful to future human colonization. After reporting this to the Earth-orbiting World Space Station, they go to investigate the formation and start hearing a low sound on their communications system. Radar initially reports that the formation is metal, but when they increase power to the radar, a large vortex appears and kills everyone except Luke. After the vortex subsides, the formation is revealed to be part of a large humanoid face.

The event creates an electromagnetic pulse the space station observes, after which it receives a distress message from Luke. Realizing Luke could not have left because the pulse would have damaged the computer system of the Earth Return Vehicle (ERV) they repurpose the "Mars II" mission into a rescue.

Months later, as "Mars Rescue", consisting of Commander Woody Blake, his wife Terri Fisher, recent widower Jim McConnell, and technician Phil Ohlmyer, nears Mars orbit, they discover that all satellite imagery of the formation area is covered with static. Micrometeoroids breach the ship, causing damage to the external fuel lines and resulting in the engines exploding. With the destroyed "Mars II" out of control, the crew are forced to abandon ship and travel in their spacesuits to the Resupply Module in a nearby orbit over Mars. Woody launches himself at the module and manages to attach a tether to it, but loses his grip and begins descending into the Martian atmosphere. Terri attempts to rescue Woody, but knowing she would run out of fuel before reaching him, Woody removes his helmet, killing himself to save her.

The survivors arrive on the Martian surface, and begin repairing the ERV. They find Luke living in a greenhouse; he shows them pictures of the face, and reveals that the pulses in the low sound they heard represented a 3D model of human-like DNA, but missing a pair of chromosomes. Jim determines they must complete the sequence to pass a test, and they send a rover to broadcast the completed signal via radar. Following the transmission, an opening appears in the side of the structure. With a massive dust storm approaching Jim, Terri, and Luke head to the formation, while Phil stays to finish repairing the ERV. Phil is ordered to launch, with or without them, before the storm hits.

The three astronauts enter the opening, which seals behind them. A three-dimensional projection of the solar system depicts the planet Mars, covered with water, being struck by a large asteroid and rendered uninhabitable. A projection of a humanoid Martian lifeform reveals that the native Martians evacuated the planet in spaceships, one of which was sent to seed Earth with DNA, intending to create life that could one day land on Mars and be recognized as descendants. An invitation is offered for one of their group to follow the Martians to their new home. Jim accepts the invitation, bidding farewell to Terri and Luke, and is sealed inside a small capsule. Terri and Luke race back to the ERV and arrive just as Phil is about to take off. They barely escape the dust storm into space as Jim's capsule is launched from the crumbling formation and past them toward the Martians' home.

####Monster Trucks (film)####

Terravex Oil is in the midst of a fracking operation in North Dakota, overseen by CEO Reece Tenneson and geologist Jim Dowd. The operation releases three subterranean creatures from an underground water system and destroys the drilling rig. Two are captured by Terravex, but one of them escapes. Meanwhile, high school senior Tripp Coley has taken up a job at a junkyard, where he builds a pickup truck in hopes of being able to leave his town. The truck doesn't have a working drivetrain (no engine). One night, Tripp encounters the escaped creature in the junkyard and captures it, but the creature escapes before he can seek authorities.

The next day, Tripp, discovers that the creature feeds on oil, and has taken shelter in the hood of his truck. He befriends him, names him Creech, and promises to help him get home. Tripp modifies the truck to give Creech more control as a makeshift engine. The truck acts as a 'wheelchair' for Creech to operate. Meanwhile, Tenneson is still concerned about the incident at the drilling rig, since similar experiments have revealed the existence of other creatures. He decides to protect the company's image by drilling poison into a hole leading to the underwater tunnels, and by sending hired mercenary Burke to kill their captured creatures, to the objection of Dowd, as he finds the monsters have significant intelligence and emotions, as well as a hive mind intelligence that allows both of the captured specimens to learn what was taught to one.

Tripp and Meredith go see Tripp's father Wade to seek help, but Wade sells Tripp out to Burke. Tripp and Meredith escape in the truck with Creech. Tripp, Meredith and Creech are chased by Burke and his team along with Rick. They escape by jumping over a MRL local with an EMD MP15DC lead train, and camping at a hunting cabin.

When Creech gets the sense something bad will happen to the other creatures, he heads to Terravex headquarters where other creatures are being held captive. Tripp and Meredith follow Creech. When they arrive, they find Creech's parents, but are attacked by Terravex workers. Creech is captured, and Tripp and Meredith are taken to Tenneson.

Dowd decides to help Tripp and Meredith rescue the creatures. They acquire two more trucks. They modify the trucks for Creech's parents to control. Dowd helps the group by stealing the Terravex truck on which Creech's parents are loaded. At the dealership, the creatures take control of the modified trucks, and the group make their escape up the mountain leading to the tunnels.

Terravex gives chase up the mountain and the group escapes. On the way, Rick helps Tripp and the group escape from Burke, preventing Burke from ramming them off the road and later stealing a large truck to block the road to prevent further pursuit. After realizing the poison has been inserted, Tripp gets into a head-on battle with Burke, who attempts to push him into the drilling hole, but ends when Tripp and Creech overturn Burke's truck, destroying the poison machine and presumably killing Burke when his truck is thrown into the equipment. Creech saves Tripp from drowning before he and his parents depart back home, and Terravex is exposed by the group for the experimentation that was harming the creatures' habitat. Tenneson is arrested for his crimes, Tripp and Rick develop on good terms and together rebuild a V8 engine for the truck, and Tripp and Meredith begin a relationship.

####Moonfall (film)####

In 2011, astronauts Brian Harper, Jocinda "Jo" Fowler, and newcomer Alan Marcus are on a Space Shuttle mission to repair a satellite. A mysterious swarm of alien technology attacks the orbiter, killing Alan and knocking Jo unconscious before tunneling into the surface of the Moon. Brian, the only witness to the swarm, returns the crippled shuttle to Earth, but his story is dismissed and he is fired from NASA.

Ten years later, conspiracy theorist K.C. Houseman, who believes that the Moon is an artificial megastructure, secretly uses a research telescope. He discovers that the Moon's orbit is veering closer to Earth, and tries to share his findings with the disgraced Brian. NASA also discovers the anomaly, but K.C. goes public on social media, leading to a global panic. Jo is now NASA's deputy director, launching a spacecraft on an SLS Block 1 rocket to investigate the abnormality. The same alien swarm attacks, killing all three lunar astronauts after they drop a probe into a kilometers-deep artificial shaft that has opened up on the Moon's surface.

As the lunar orbit deteriorates, the Moon falls closer and closer to the Earth, causing seismic and gravitational disturbances. Jo meets former NASA official Holdenfield, who reveals that Brian was discredited due to a NASA coverup dating back to Apollo 11; during the first moon landing, a two-minute radio blackout was meant to conceal evidence of pulsating lights on the surface. Apollo 12 also revealed that the Moon is hollow, and a military EMP device created to kill the swarm was abandoned for budgetary reasons.

With help from her ex-husband General Doug Davidson, Air Force Chief of Staff, Jo requisitions the EMP and rescues retired Space Shuttle "Endeavour" from a museum to serve the new mission: to correct the Moon's orbit and destroy the swarm. Brian, K.C., and Jo launch with the EMP, narrowly escaping to orbit as a tsunami destroys Vandenberg Air Force Base.

They reach the interior of the Moon, revealed to be a Dyson sphere powered by a white dwarf at its center. The Dyson sphere's AI operating system explains to Brian that billions of years ago, humanity's technologically advanced ancestors were eradicated by a rogue AI; they built the Moon as an Interstellar ark to create and seed life on Earth, but the swarm — one of the malicious AIs — discovered the Moon and is siphoning energy from its power source, destabilizing its orbit.

Meanwhile, Brian's son Sonny, Jo's son Jimmy, and his caretaker Michelle try to reach Doug's military bunker in the Colorado mountains, finding Brian's ex-wife and Sonny's mother Brenda, her husband Tom, and their step-family. Escaping disasters caused by the Moon's proximity and fighting off other survivors, the group finds safety in a mountain tunnel. When his youngest daughter runs out of oxygen, an injured Tom gives her his own, suffocating to death as the Moon strips away the local atmosphere. The president orders a nuclear strike on the approaching Moon, but Doug refuses to comply, with debris collapsing the bunker shortly thereafter, presumably killing Doug and everyone inside.

As the swarm only attacks organic life in the presence of electronic activity, K.C. lures the swarm away from their spacecraft with their lunar module, sacrificing himself to detonate the EMP. Jo and Brian return to Earth, reuniting with their families, and the Moon's power is restored, returning to its regular orbit, but now shed of its rocky exterior. Reconstructing K.C.'s consciousness, the Moon's operating system appears to him as his cat, Fuzz Aldrin, and his mother, remarking that they must now "get started".

####Mortal Engines (film)####
Set more than a thousand years in the future following a cataclysmic conflict known as the Sixty Minute War, the remnants of mankind regroup and form mobile cities, called "Traction Cities". Under a philosophy known as "Municipal Darwinism", larger "predator" cities hunt and absorb smaller settlements in the "Great Hunting Ground", which includes Great Britain and Continental Europe. In opposition, settlements of the "Anti-Traction League" have developed an alternative civilization consisting of "static settlements" (traditional, non-mobile cities) in Asia led by Shan Guo (formerly China), protected by the "Shield Wall". Relics of 21st-century technology such as toasters, computers, and smartphones are valued by historians as "Old-Tech."

The city of London captures a small Bavarian mining town called Salzhaken, absorbing its population and resources, under orders of Lord Mayor Magnus Crome. Tom Natsworthy, an apprentice historian, arrives at London's "Gut" to collect Salzhaken's Old-Tech for London's Museum. Hester Shaw, a masked twenty-something woman among the Salzhakens, attempts to assassinate Thaddeus Valentine, Head of the Guild of Historians, but Tom intervenes, pursuing Hester to a chute. Hester escapes, but not before telling him that Valentine murdered her mother and scarred her face. When Tom informs Valentine of this, he pushes Tom down the chute.

Tom and Hester are forced to work together to traverse the Hunting Ground, surviving Southies, Scavs on a night hunt, and finding refuge in a vehicle called Scuttlebug, but the owners lock them in a cell, intending to sell them as slaves. Hester confides that Valentine killed her archaeologist mother Pandora after stealing a piece of Old-Tech she found in a dig in the Dead Continent of the Americas, while young Hester escaped with a necklace her mother gave her. Meanwhile, Valentine frees Shrike, a reanimated cyborg known as a "Stalker", from the offshore walking prison Sharkmoor, to find and kill Hester. At the slave market of Rustwater in the Outlands, Tom and Hester are rescued by Anti-Traction League agent Anna Fang. During the chaos, they are pursued by Shrike, whom Hester reveals she knows. Hester explains that Shrike had found and raised her after escaping Valentine, and Hester promised to let him turn her into a Stalker like himself, but she left after discovering that London had entered the Great Hunting Ground, giving her a chance to kill Valentine. In London, Valentine's good-natured daughter Katherine grows estranged from her father, especially after Apprentice Engineer Bevis Pod informs her that Valentine pushed Tom down the chute, and they learn Valentine's energy project in the re-purposed St Paul's Cathedral is more than it seems.

Hester and Tom travel on Anna's airship, the "Jenny Haniver", to the airborne city Airhaven, meeting other Anti-Traction League members. After questioning Hester, Tom realizes Pandora discovered a computer core for MEDUSA, a quantum energy-based superweapon used by the belligerents during the Sixty Minute War to instantly destroy entire cities, albeit shattering the Earth's crust into a thousand pieces that have rearranged the former continents. The Guild of Engineers has stolen the remaining components from Tom's museum workshop and built a MEDUSA under Valentine's orders. Shrike catches up with them, resulting in a fierce skirmish that critically wounds him and destroys Airhaven. Realizing that Hester is in love with Tom, he spares Tom and frees her of her promise before perishing. As Hester, Tom, and Anna travel to the Shield Wall of Batmunkh Gompa with the surviving Anti-Tractionists, Valentine kills Crome in a coup and musters support from Londoners by vowing to destroy the Shield Wall with MEDUSA and lead them to a new Hunting Ground in Asia. Anna convinces Shan Guo's Governor Kwan to launch the Anti-Tractionist airship fleet against London, but MEDUSA destroys the fleet and blasts a hole through the Shield Wall. After coming upon a stone carving of Medusa, Hester discovers that her mother's necklace hides a "crash drive", a kill switch for MEDUSA. Hester, Tom, Anna, and the remaining Anti-Tractionists lead a raid against London, braving the city's anti-aircraft guns.

Hester and Anna infiltrate St Paul's, and though Valentine mortally wounds Anna during a sword duel, Hester destroys MEDUSA with the crash drive. In a last-ditch attempt to destroy the Shield Wall, the insane Valentine has his henchmen kill the city's control crew and put the city on full throttle on a collision course with the Wall with no concern for all involved. With Katherine's help, Tom uses the "Jenny Haniver" to destroy London's engine. Hester catches and fights Valentine aboard his airship, where he reveals that he is her father. Tom rescues Hester and shoots down Valentine's ship, which is crushed by London's slowing tracks, killing Valentine. With Valentine's defeat, the surviving Londoners, now led by Katherine, make peace with the Anti-Tractionists of Shan Guo. As Governor Kwan welcomes the Londoners, Tom and Hester embrace each other and leave in the "Jenny Haniver" together to see the world.

####Mutant (film)####
Brothers Josh and Mike are enjoying a vacation in the South when they are run off the road by Al and a few of his friends. They eventually make it to a small town whose inhabitants are getting sick and some are disappearing. They meet Sheriff Will who takes them to a bed and breakfast to stay for the night. As they're sleeping, something comes from under Mike's bed and drags him down.

Josh begins looking through town to find his brother. He meets a schoolteacher named Holly who agrees to help. As they leave the school, they hear strange noises in a storage room. As Josh checks it out, a body of a decomposed schoolgirl falls on him. Al (who is a custodian) accuses him of murder and chases him off, leaving with Holly to her uncle's place where he recovers from the toxic reaction from the girl. As Will is about to take the body to the coroner, he's convinced by Dr. Myra to let her get the body for a night, hoping that she can find out what is causing the sicknesses and other strange happenings.

Will goes to the schoolgirl's residence, where he sees the lightbulbs removed and all the red meat sucked dry. He then finds the dying father. As the Captain makes his way to the house, the body is suddenly gone. Believing that he's been drinking again, the Captain fires Will. As Dr. Myra begins recording her autopsy, her assistant suddenly becomes a mutant and attacks Dr. Myra.

Next morning Josh and Holly head out to a plant that some chemical company just opened a few weeks ago, thinking that this could be the cause of the sickness. As he sneaks in, he finds them dumping toxic waste into the hole before he gets spotted. Holly is able to drive into the building, causing the distraction, allowing Josh and Holly to escape. Will is reluctant to believe their story, but when he sees Holly's uncle become a mutant, they formulate a plan to get the girls body and take it to the capital to get backup.

Josh heads back to the bed and breakfast to search for Mike. He ends up finding his dead body in the basement. As he's being attacked by the owner's mutant daughter, Josh is able to break out of the basement and throw her mother down there. As Will and Holly enter Dr. Myra's office, they are attacked by mutants. Holly is able to escape, while Will barricades himself in a room where he see the deceased Dr. Myra. Holly goes to the school to chase down a student named Billy. As they try to leave, a large group of mutant children corner them in a stall of a bathroom. The mutants kill Billy, but Josh arrives in time to rescue Holly. They head back to Dr. Myra's office to look for Will, but they can only find his hat and gun. As they try to leave, they are surrounded by mutants and are forced to hide inside a gas station.

Josh and Holly start making Molotov cocktails so they can make an escape. However, Al was hiding in there as well and attacks Holly. This causes Josh and Al to fight, allowing the mutants to hear them and attack. They kill Al while Josh and Holly are forced into a corner. Suddenly, a large group of state police cars surround the gas station shining their lights. The mutants become blinded and confused, allowing the police to kill them. Will appears telling them how he got the girls body to the capital as well as getting confessions from the chemical plant employees.

A news story appears on a radio detailing the incident in town. They also mention the chemical company starting a new facility somewhere else.

####Mutant Chronicles (film)####
The story is set in the year 2707.

The plot revolves around a "machine" which came from space 10,000 years ago. The "machine" mutates people into barely intelligent killing drones, known as "mutants", that drag new victims to the machine for conversion. Sealed away thousands of years ago by human tribes, the machine is accidentally uncovered during a large battle in Eastern Europe between two (Capitol and Bauhaus) of the four corporations that now rule the world (the other two being Mishima and Imperial). Within six weeks the world is almost completely overrun by the mutant gangs. Some of the population has been evacuated to Mars, but millions remain on the doomed Earth. A group of soldiers are assembled to take another ancient device to the heart of the machine in an attempt to destroy it in a suicide mission. In return, their loved ones receive coveted tickets to Mars.

En route their spaceship is shot down by a kamikaze airship piloted by a mutant. The group is forced to battle through the mutants in tunnels to reach the machine, hoping to save the last of humanity. In their attempt to reach the machine most die, with Mitch being partially transformed into a mutant and Brother Samuel being fully transformed. Mitch is able to halt his own transformation, but is forced to kill Brother Samuel. Mitch, being the last survivor, is ultimately successful in activating the ancient device, causing the machine (which was actually part of a spacecraft) not to be destroyed but to blast off into space.

A dying and mutated Samuel tells him to "have faith" as Mitch jumps from the slowly ascending rocket, landing in an underground lake beneath the rocket. Crawling onto land he sees the rocket disappear into the sky, realizing he is the prophesied savior of mankind, despite not believing in a god. Grievously wounded and partially mutated, he unsuccessfully attempts to light a final crooked cigarette. The final plan shows the rocket en route to the red planet.

####Nazis at the Center of the Earth####
####Nemesis (1992 film)####
In the year 2027, illegal androids (called cyborgs in the film) have become commonplace, and many criminals enhance themselves with cybernetic components, making them "more than human". Alex Rain is a disillusioned assassin/bounty hunter for the LAPD. During a routine mission, he is attacked by a militant group known as The Red Army Hammerheads. Nearly killed by the surviving leader, Rosaria, Alex resists her assertion that he is a mindless robot: "Eighty-six point five percent [of him] is still human."

After months of cybernetic reconstruction and recovery, Alex tracks Rosaria to Baja and kills her. Soon after this, his handlers show up—his former lover Jared, who is an android, and another android, Sam. Alex decides he has had enough and leaves the LAPD, becoming a freelance hustler and triggerman. However, his LAPD bosses are just letting him run free for a while. His old boss Commissioner Farnsworth has him kidnapped and brought in for one final assignment. According to Farnsworth, Jared has stolen vital security information regarding an upcoming summit between Japan and the United States, and must be stopped before she leaks the plans to the Hammerheads. Alex is told by Farnsworth that a bomb was implanted in his heart during his latest repairs. He is given three days to find Jared before she meets with the leader of the Hammerheads, Angie-Liv; otherwise, the bomb will detonate and kill him. After flying to the town of Shang-Loo on Java, he is turned loose as bait for Jared.

In reality, the Hammerheads are not only battling against government control of people's lives, but for humanity's future. A newly-designed android is infiltrating the higher echelons of human society, copying the minds of powerful leaders into synthetic bodies, Farnsworth among them - who has been replaced by Sam who was redesigned to look like him. Jared threatens their plans, and so Alex's real mission is to smoke her out for the synthetics to destroy. Burnt-out, Alex halfheartedly begins his search, checking into a local hotel. He is soon intercepted by Julian, a cyborg representing Jared. She tells him he is being followed by an LAPD strike team led by "Farnsworth", waiting for the opportunity to hit the Hammerheads and Jared.

It turns out that Jared was fatally wounded in her escape from LA, requiring her memory core to be salvaged from her body. After removing a surveillance device implanted in Alex's eye, Julian injects him with a digital scrambler that prevents the bomb from being remotely detonated. She gives him Jared's memory core, enabling him to talk to her. The strike team storms the hotel and Julian sacrifices herself to allow Alex to escape.

Alex eventually joins up with a local woman, Max Impact, who acts a scout for the Hammerheads while fronting as a tour guide. She is also the sister of Rosaria, the woman he had killed in Old Baja. While she wants Alex dead, her loyalty to the freedom fighters comes first. He is brought to the Hammerheads and is convinced by Angie-Liv to join their cause. Unfortunately, the strike team tracks them down, leading to a shootout and chase through the rundown city. Most of the Hammerheads, including Angie-Liv, are killed by Farnsworth's men. Alex saves Max's life, eventually earning her forgiveness. In a confrontation with Farnsworth, Alex shoots him with a grenade launcher, apparently killing him.

Alex and Max arrive at a secret hangar where Yoshiro, a surviving Hammerhead, is waiting. While launching their escape vehicle, an aerodyne, they are attacked by the cyborg Farnsworth, reduced to his mechanical endoskeleton. Alex defeats him, but suffers grave injuries in the process and discovers just how much of him really is synthetic. Alex brings Jared's core to another Hammerhead compound where they will be able to destroy the labs being used to duplicate people. Unfortunately this means wiping her memory from the core, effectively killing her. Heavily bandaged and temporarily blind, Alex is forced to say goodbye.

Sneaking into L.A. and hunting down the synthetic agents, Alex corners Farnsworth's right-hand man Germaine on the helipad of LAPD headquarters. Despite Germaine's protests that he cannot hope to kill all the synthetics, Alex shoots him. Before she died, Jared told Alex that the real Commissioner Farnsworth left him a letter at an old drop location. In it, his former mentor apologizes for his sometimes rough treatment, reminding him that they all have to do what is right. Alex walks off with his new partner, Max, and they joke about how they are going to smuggle his synthetic body through airport customs: "Piece by piece, Max..."

####Nemesis 2: Nebula####
####Nemesis 3: Prey Harder####
Alex wakes up in the desert with a bullet in the back of her head and total amnesia. Following her footprints back the way she came, she encounters a man named Farnsworth 2, who offers to help her and get her medical attention. He gives her "a shot of endo" to repair the affected part of her brain and she starts to have flashes of memories; when she remembers a woman warning her not to let Farnsworth 2 get her DNA, she kills him with his own gun before he can complete a blood test on her. She then passes out and begins to remember.

After destroying Nebula and being rescued by soldiers, she accompanies the soldiers to a rocky area where the soldiers are wiped out by a surprise attack by a small group of insurgents before Alex takes them out herself. Her necklace starts glowing and a light appears in the distance from a time machine that landed (as seen in the previous film). Following the light source, she meets her half-sister Raine, who explains that she has 20 half-sisters but Alex is unique as she has the ability to procreate and start a new breed of genetically enhanced humans capable of wiping out the cyborg threat. She tells Alex that, because of their limited launch window, they must return in 24 hours or they will be stranded for one year. She then lets Alex make her escape before being captured by Farnsworth 2 and his team, who are disguised as rebel fighters.

Alex joins forces with Edson, a mercenary with dubious moral scruples, and Johnny, a former freedom fighter ("a big hero" according to Edson) who lost much of his higher mental functions after sustaining a head injury during rescue mission and was left for dead. Edson and Johnny are captured by the cyborgs and an accidentally-reactivated Nebula starts killing Farnsworth's men, claiming Alex as his bounty. Nebula shapeshifts into one of Alex's sisters shortly before Alex smashes her way into the cyborg's secret base at the disused mine, killing most of the remaining cyborgs and rescuing Raine, Edson, Johnny and her other "sister". Just as they make their escape however, Farnsworth 2 sends a drone after them that destroys the jeep.

Alex wakes up next to Farnsworth's jeep, remembering nothing after the explosion and having no idea what happened to Johnny, Edson, her sister or how she ended up in the desert with a bullet through her head. She comes to the conclusion that she "remembered all [she] could... the answers lie in the future. The future... where everything was waiting."

####Nemesis 4: Death Angel####
Following an uneasy ceasefire between the humans and the cyborgs, Alex Sinclair (Sue Price) is making a living in the future working as a cybernetically-enhanced assassin for her boss Bernardo (Andrew Divoff). But when Alex accidentally targets the wrong man and kills the son of a major crime syndicate head, she finds herself on the run once again as every assassin in town comes to collect the bounty on her. And all the while, Alex has been seeing a woman in black watching her from a distance. Alex begins to think the Angel of Death is waiting to come for her.

####Night of the Comet####
The Earth is passing through the tail of a comet, an event which has not occurred in 65 million years and coincided with the extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs. On the night of the comet's passage, eleven days before Christmas, large crowds gather outside to watch and celebrate.

Eighteen-year-old Regina "Reggie" Belmont works at a movie theater in southern California. She is annoyed to find the initials DMK have the sixth highest score on the theater's "Tempest" video game; all the other high scores are hers. She stays after the theater closes to help her boyfriend Larry, the theatre's projectionist, sneak back in so he can loan out a film reel for illegal duplication for his own profit. He offers to pay for her assistance from what he expects to earn when the other party returns the film reel in the morning. Reggie and Larry spend the night in the steel-lined projection booth and have sex.

Meanwhile, Reggie's 16-year-old sister Samantha "Sam" argues with their stepmother Doris, who Sam implies is cheating on her father, who is away on active military duty. After this escalates to a physical altercation, Sam spends the night in a steel backyard shed.

The next morning, a gloomy reddish haze covers the sky, and there are no signs of life but piles of red dust and heaps of clothing everywhere. Unaware that anything has occurred, Larry goes outside and is killed by a zombie wielding a pipe wrench. After playing the video game to replace DMK's initials with her own, Reggie goes looking for Larry outside, mistaking the red overcast sky as bad smog. She quickly encounters the zombie, but escapes on Larry's motorcycle. She heads home to find her sister, and they surmise that because they both spent the night in steel containers, they were saved from the comet's effects.

The sisters race to the local radio station after they hear a disc jockey on air, only to find it was a pre-recorded show. They come across another survivor there, Hector Gomez, who spent the night in the back of his steel truck. When Sam talks into the microphone, she is heard by researchers in an underground installation out in the desert. As they listen to Reggie, Sam and Hector debate what to do, the scientists note that the zombies, though less exposed to the comet, will eventually disintegrate into dust themselves. Hector leaves to check if any of his family survived, but promises to return as soon as possible.

Reggie and Sam then go shopping for guns and clothing at a mall. After a firefight with some evil stock boys, the girls are taken prisoner, but are saved by a rescue team sent by the scientists. Reggie is taken back to their base. Audrey White, a disillusioned scientist, offers to dispose of Sam, whom she diagnosed as having been exposed to the comet due to her developing rash, and to wait for Hector to return. After she fakes euthanizing Sam by injecting her with only a sedative, she kills the other remaining scientist. When Hector returns after an encounter with a zombie child, Audrey briefs him on the situation and then gives herself a lethal injection (as she herself has been exposed). Sam and Hector set out to rescue Reggie.

Back at the base, it is revealed that the researchers had suspected and prepared for the comet's effects, but inadvertently left the ventilation system open and the fans running during the comet's passage. The deadly dust permeated their base. Reggie, who has become suspicious, escapes and discovers that the dying scientists have hunted down and rendered healthy survivors brain-dead. They harvest their untainted blood to keep the disease at bay while they desperately search for a cure. Reggie saves a young boy and a girl before they are processed, then unplugs the other victims from their life support machines. Sam and Hector arrive and rescue the trio and blow up the scientists.

Eventually, rain washes away the red dust, leaving the sky clear. Reggie pairs up with Hector, and they assume parental roles with the kids. Sam feels left out. Frustrated, she ignores Reggie's warning about crossing a deserted downtown street against the still-operating signal light, claiming there is nobody else left. Sam is almost run over by a sports car driven by Danny Mason Keener, a survivor about her own age. After apologizing, he invites her to go for a ride. As they drive off, the car is shown sporting the initials "DMK" on the vanity plate.

####No Escape (1994 film)####
####Oblivion (2013 film)####


Jack and Victoria are the last ones left on Earth in 2077. In 2017, scavenger aliens destroyed the Moon and invaded Earth; although humans won the war, Earth was left uninhabitable. With Victoria as his communications officer, Jack repairs combat drones that hunt the remaining scavengers and guard the hydrothermal platforms that convert seawater into fusion energy. The work is reported to Sally, the mission commander aboard the "Tet", a space station orbiting Earth once a day. Within two weeks, the group will be departing for Saturn's moon, Titan, to join surviving colonists there. Though Jack and Victoria's memories have been wiped, Jack dreams of a pre-war life with an unknown woman.

Jack escapes a scavenger trap while searching for a disabled drone inside the New York Public Library's ruins; meanwhile, a platform is destroyed. Jack discovers that the scavengers are radioing coordinates from the Empire State Building's antenna and ends the transmission to outer space. He follows nearby waterfalls to visit a secret area that sustains vegetation and has a lake with fish and potable water. A lakeside cabin he built is filled with mementos of Earth's past.

An unidentified object falls from the sky to the transmitted coordinates. Jack finds five humans in sleep pods there, including the woman in his dreams. A drone destroys four pods but Jack saves the woman and takes her to his and Victoria's aerial base. The woman, Julia Rusakova, revives and says she is a NASA astronaut who has been sleeping aboard the Odyssey space ship since 2017.

Jack and Julia return to the crash to retrieve the Odyssey's flight recorder, but scavengers capture and take them to the Raven Rock Mountain Complex. The leader, Malcolm Beech, reveals that the scavengers are disguised human survivors hiding from the drones. Beech frees Jack and Julia into the desert area that Jack knows as the deadly Radiation Zone so that they can discover the truth for themselves. Julia reveals that she is Jack's wife, which triggers his memory of proposing to her at the Empire State Building.

Victoria sends an aircraft to retrieve Jack and Julia. She is heartbroken at seeing their closeness and reports to Sally that she and Jack are no longer "an effective team". Sally dispatches a drone that kills Victoria. Jack and Julia flee in the jet and destroy the drones chasing them but they crash in the desert, where a clone of Jack arrives to fix disabled drones. Jack incapacitates him, but Julia is shot during their fight. Jack impersonates the clone to return to its base for medical supplies; there he encounters a clone of Victoria. Jack then takes Julia to his cabin where she recovers. She tells him that the cabin resembles the one they had in 2017.

The two spend the night together. The next morning, they go back to Raven Rock, intending to return to the cabin once the war is over. Beech tells them the Tet is an alien ship with an artificial intelligence that is extracting Earth's natural resources. The Tet destroyed the Moon, causing planet-wide catastrophic earthquakes and tsunamis, then invaded with an army of Jack clones. The escape to Titan and humanity's victory are fictional. The survivors had to bring down the Odyssey spaceship to obtain its nuclear reactor, which is suitable for interplanetary travel. Jack reprograms a captured drone to sabotage the Tet with a bomb, but other drones attack the base. Beech is gravely injured and the captured drone is damaged beyond repair. Jack and Julia volunteer to manually deliver a bomb to the Tet.

En route to the Tet, Jack learns from the Odyssey's flight recorder that he was cloned from the NASA mission commander, Jack Harper, who was on a mission to explore Titan. Victoria was his co-pilot, Julia a crew member and Sally the Earth mission director. After the mission was interrupted by the Tet's arrival, Jack separated the control capsule to save the crew members in their stasis pods. He and Victoria were captured and cloned.

Jack enters the Tet and discovers thousands of clones of him and Victoria in stasis. The Tet's projection of Sally confronts Jack. Jack offers Julia to Sally, but it is Beech who emerges from the pod. The two detonate the bomb, destroying the Tet and themselves. Meanwhile, Julia awakens in her pod by the cabin. She is on the side of the canvas from the "Christina's World" painting she and Jack saw in Raven Rock.

Three years after the explosion seen in the sky, Julia and Jack's daughter is living at the cabin with her mother. Julia kept the painting framed in the cabin, cultivated an orchard and built a wooden boat. One day, surviving resistance members arrive with the help of the clone that Jack had previously subdued in the desert. The impassioned clone recovered the original Jack's memories as well.

####Omega Cop####
In the year 1999, the world is in the midst of an environmental holocaust, the result of a series of solar flares which have scorched the Earth for the last 30 years. Exposure to the flares results in a radiation poisoning which causes the affected to degenerate into psychotic killers. The vast majority of the world's population is dead, the world is desolate and arid, and in the United States the government and military now only control New York City and Washington DC. Otherwise, what is left of humanity is divided between militarised encampments protecting pockets of the unaffected survivors, and roving groups of slavers and scavengers. Unradiated water, gasoline and women have become precious resources which the surviving groups hoard jealously and are willing to kill to obtain.

John Travis (Ron Marchini) is the leader of a security patrol for one of the compounds led by Prescott (Adam West) when he and his squad are sent to investigate reports of a slaver auction of female captives. Suspecting that notorious bandit leader Wraith is there, he is ordered to break up the auction and kill Wraith if possible. The raid goes badly, however, as the group are forced to open fire, resulting in the deaths of all of Travis' comrades along with several dozen slavers and scavengers. Calling for backup, Travis is told that due to solar flare activity he is not only alone but he cannot be allowed back into the safety of his home compound. Wraith, learning of the identity of his attacker, conducts a ritual sacrifice of a woman and swears before his men that the next sacrifice will be of Travis.

Abandoned in a small urban area, Travis ends up freeing three women, who he takes back to an abandoned local baseball stadium which he apparently uses as a part-time hide-out. Realizing that the third of the women is sick and needs medical attention, he takes the group to a clinic run by a friend, Dr. Latimer (Stuart Whitman). While there, he is led into a trap by a boy working for Wraith who steals weapons from his car. Although he escapes, the three women flee the clinic when the doctor reveals that he has been infected by the most recent flare. When Travis returns he finds the clinic abandoned save for Dr. Latimer, who he is forced to shoot.

Reuniting with the three women at the baseball field, Travis makes the decision to return to the compound and demand medical aid from his erstwhile employers. Upon return he finds that Wraith's men already have the bunker under siege, and any chance of saving those inside has passed. Despite making an attempt at buying some time for the survivors inside, Prescott reports that Wraith's men have breached the bunker, ransacked its armory and are overrunning it, killing everyone inside. Left with no other option, Prescott tells Travis that his one chance to kill Wraith is to use the store's explosives to detonate the bunker, killing everyone inside. Travis reluctantly agrees, and aided by his female companions he clears the exterior of the compound, liberates the explosives and levels the facility. From there, he and his companions cross the country to live around the untainted mountain lakes of Montana.

####Omega Doom####
####The Omega Man####
####The One (2001 film)####
Gabriel Yulaw, once an agent of the MultiVerse Authority (MVA) which polices interdimensional travel, seeks to hunt down all variations of himself in alternate universes. By killing 124 versions of his other selves and absorbing their life energies, Yulaw believes that he will become a superpowered-godlike being called "The One".

After killing Lawless, the 123rd variation in the Anubis Universe, Yulaw is captured by MVA agents Roedecker and Funsch and taken back to the MVA headquarters in the Alpha Universe. After he is sentenced to life in the Stygian penal colony in the Hades Universe, Yulaw manages to escape with the help of his lover and teleports to the Charis Universe where the last variation of himself lives.

The last known variation, Gabe Law, is a deputy sheriff working in the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. For two years, Gabe has been experiencing increases in strength, speed, and mental ability, but neither he nor his wife T.K. can understand why. While transporting a prisoner, Gabe "feels" Yulaw's presence in time to avoid being shot. Gabe sustains an injury after falling from a wall which Yulaw scales with ease. Roedecker and Funsch arrive in time to stop Yulaw from finishing off Gabe.

Although unfamiliar with interdimensional travel, Gabe realizes that Yulaw is identical to him in every way. Rodecker and Funsch track Yulaw to the hospital where Gabe is being examined. Yulaw deters them from shooting him because if he is killed, Gabe would then be left as the One. Dressed alike and identical to each other, Gabe and Yulaw's battle confuses the other police officers. Both Gabe and Yulaw manage to escape the hospital.

The MVA agents deviate from their orders and split up. Roedecker pursues and fights Yulaw but is killed when the latter breaks his neck, disabling a bomb Roedecker intended to use to finish both of them off. Funsch catches up with Gabe and explains to him that there are multiple universes with wormholes briefly connecting them at uncontrollable times. Yulaw sneaks into Gabe's residence where T.K., believing him to be Gabe, agrees to hide him from the police. She realizes that Yulaw is deceiving her but not in time to avoid being captured. Gabe arrives, only to watch helplessly as Yulaw kills T.K. Funsch finds a guilt-ridden Gabe and both team up to find Yulaw at the next wormhole.

Gabe and Funsch arrive at an industrial plant, where they encounter and fight Yulaw. Funsch is easily defeated but Gabe and Yulaw are more evenly matched. Gabe manages to gain the upper hand but only seconds before the wormhole arrives. All three of them are sucked into it and collapse on the floor of the MVA headquarters. Yulaw is transported immediately to the Hades Universe after a failed attempt to switch places with Gabe. The MVA then prepares to send Gabe back to his own universe, where he will be arrested and put into prison for the crimes that Yulaw committed. Recalling an earlier conversation with Gabe, Funsch compassionately sends him to a different universe in which Gabe can have a normal life again from when he first met T.K.

Meanwhile, Yulaw, now on the stygian penal colony in the Hades Universe, declares that he will still become the One and then proceeds to battle a prison inmate. Finally, the camera then pulls back to show an army of other prison inmates taking on Yulaw on top of a ziggurat.

####Outlander (film)####
A spacecraft crashes in a lake in Vendel-era Scandinavia  (550–790). The only surviving occupant &ndash; a humanoid alien &ndash; retrieves a distress beacon and a computer which explains that he is on Earth, a "seed" colony that his people have abandoned.  The computer downloads the local Norse language and culture directly into his brain. The spaceman soon finds a recently destroyed village, where he is captured by Wulfric (Jack Huston), a warrior from another village.

Wulfric takes him to the fortified village of King Hrothgar (John Hurt), father of Freya (Sophia Myles), who he hopes will marry future king Wulfric. Hrothgar is concerned that Gunnar (Ron Perlman), chieftain of the destroyed village, will assume it was Wulfric's doing, as Wulfric's father (Hrothgar's predecessor) had been killed by Gunnar. Wulfric interrogates the "outlander", who identifies himself as Kainan (Jim Caviezel), claiming he is from the north, and states that he is hunting a dragon. The village is attacked that night by an unseen creature, which kills several men. Kainan identifies it as a "Moorwen", a predatory creature which caused his ship to crash and now will hunt men and animals alike. When Kainan is taken with a hunting party to find the Moorwen, he kills a gigantic bear that had slain some of the hunters, proving himself to the others who begin treating him as a part of their tribe.

Gunnar and his men attack the settlement, retreating, after both sides suffer casualties. They soon return, pursued by the Moorwen, and enter the safety of the village. Kainan devises a plan to build a huge pit just inside the village entrance, fill it with whale oil and leave wooden shields floating on the surface.

Freya becomes increasingly attracted to Kainan. He explains to her the Moorwen's origin&mdash;Kainan's people invaded its land (planet), slaughtered it in the billions and built a colony there. This Moorwen, now the last of its kind, massacred everyone in the colony, including Kainan's wife and child. When his "ship" returned to the colony, the Moorwen snuck onboard and later caused the crash. After listening to Kainan's tale, Freya gives him a family sword, saying she was told that she would know what man to give it to.

Kainan and Wulfric lure the Moorwen to the village. They cross the oil pit by running on the shields, but the Moorwen falls into the pit, and the oil is set on fire. The Moorwen bursts out, kills several people, then escapes. Meanwhile, an offspring of the Moorwen sneaks into the hall where the women and children are hiding. Erik, the orphaned boy that Kainan has begun looking after, alerts Hrothgar, who is killed as the women and children escape. Kainan realizes that they need stronger weapons to kill the Moorwen. Kainan, Freya, and the newly-crowned King Wulfric return to the lake to retrieve fragments of metal from Kainan's submerged ship. While Kainan is underwater, the young Moorwen attacks the boat, taking Freya. Kainan and Wulfric return to the village, where the fragments are soon forged into weapons before descending into the Moorwens' lair.

Freya awakens on a pile of bodies in the underground lair. As the young Moorwen moves toward Freya, it is distracted by the sound of Kainan's hunting party. Many of the hunters are killed, but the young Moorwen is blinded by Boromir. When it returns to attack Freya, Kainan and Wulfric pass one of the new swords, with which she slays the young Moorwen. The cave exits to a high waterfall, where the adult Moorwen attacks. It seriously wounds Wulfric before Kainan engages it in battle.  When Freya joins in, Kainan is able to knock the Moorwen over the cliff's edge to its death. Freya and Kainan return to Wulfric's side, where he passes the kingship to Kainan just before he dies.

Kainan tells Freya to wait for the rest of the warriors and kisses her before he heads back to the lake. Night falls as Kainan retrieves some items from his ship, says goodbye to his wife's submerged coffin, then destroys his distress beacon just as Freya sees a rescue spaceship approaching, leading her to believe that Kainan was sent by the gods. The rescue ship departs without Kainan, who stays as king, weds Freya and they adopt Erik.

####Outside the Wire####

In 2036, a civil war between pro-Russian insurgents and a resistance movement in Ukraine leads the US to deploy peacekeeping forces. During an operation, a team of US Marines and robotic soldiers, called "G.U.M.P."s, are ambushed. Disobeying an order, drone pilot Lt. Harp deploys a Hellfire missile in a drone strike against a suspected enemy launcher, killing two Marines caught in the killzone but saving the lead Lieutenant  and remaining 38 Marines who would have been killed by the launcher. As punishment, Harp is redeployed to combat duty at Camp Nathaniel, the US base of operations in Ukraine. Harp is assigned to Capt. Leo, a highly advanced and experimental android super-soldier masquerading as a human officer, a secret known only by Harp and camp commander Col. Eckhart.

Harp and Leo, under the cover of delivering vaccines to a refugee camp, set out on a mission to prevent terrorist Victor Koval from gaining control of a network of Cold War–era nuclear missile silos. On the way, they respond to a reported attack on a friendly aid truck, resulting in a stand-off between the Marines and armed locals. After a G.U.M.P. shoots a local who threw a rock, Leo negotiates a peaceful solution by giving the locals the contents of the aid truck. However, pro-Russian insurgents ambush the locals and Marines, leading to a firefight. This forces Leo and Harp to travel to the refugee camp on foot, while the Marines remain behind to engage the insurgents.

At the refugee compound, Leo and Harp are shot at by an insurgent, who kills some civilians. Leo tortures the insurgent for information, before leaving him to be killed by the gathered mob. Leo and Harp meet their contact Sofiya, a resistance leader. Sofiya leads them to an arms dealer who knows the location of a bank vault containing nuclear launch codes that Koval is looking for. Harp and Leo travel to the bank and are met by Koval's forces, which include several Russian built G.U.M.P.s. Harp rescues a few of the civilians caught in a crossfire between US and Russian G.U.M.P.s, while Leo retrieves the codes but cannot find Koval. A drone strike called in by Eckhart destroys the bank and several buildings, leading the military command to believe Koval dead and Leo destroyed.

Leo reunites with Harp, and tells him that he has his own plans for the codes, and has been manipulating Harp into helping him evade the eye of military command. He knocks out Harp and leaves him on the side of the road where he is picked up by Sofiya's men. Leo meets with Koval to give him the codes but kills him when Koval refuses to give Leo access to a nuclear missile silo. Harp informs Sofiya and Eckhart of Leo's actions, and they realize that Leo is planning to launch the nuclear missiles to strike the United States, in order to prevent them from fighting more wars in the future. Harp volunteers to infiltrate the silo and finds Leo has taken over. He disables Leo but not before Leo initiates the launch of a missile, explaining that his goal was for the android super-soldier program to end in failure. Harp escapes as the silo is destroyed by a drone strike before the missile can launch; destroying Leo in the process and saving the states. With his field work now over with, Harp returns to Camp Nathaniel and receives praise from Eckhart, who informs him that he will be returning to his Stateside drone pilot duties.

####Overlord (2018 film)####

On the eve of D-Day in a alternate 1940s, a paratrooper squad, most of them in an integrated unit, is sent to destroy a German radio-jamming tower in an old church. Their plane is shot down and crashes, and most of the squad, including squad leader Sgt. Rensin, are killed either in the crash or by Nazi soldiers and landmines. Four survivors remain: second-in-command Corporal Ford, Pfc. Boyce, Pfc. Tibbet, and Pvt. Chase.

The team continues onward and meets Chloe, a young woman from the village where the church is located. She lets them take refuge in her house. Chloe lives with her 8-year-old brother Paul and her aunt, who has been disfigured by Nazi experiments taking place in the church. After Tibbet and Chase depart to check the scheduled rendezvous site, a Nazi patrol led by SS Hauptsturmführer Wafner visits Chloe. Wafner sends his men away, and proceeds to coerce Chloe for sex, threatening to send her brother to the church to be "fixed." Boyce cannot ignore this and interrupts the Nazi officer. Ford is forced to follow suit and restrains Wafner.

Attempting to reach the rendezvous point to look for Tibbet and Chase, Boyce witnesses the Nazis burning disfigured village residents. He is chased by a dog and forced to hide in a truck carrying dead bodies into the church. Sneaking out of the truck, Boyce discovers an underground base that houses not only a radio operating room, but also a laboratory where the Germans perform various experiments on the villagers involving a mysterious serum and a large pit filled with black tar. Boyce takes a syringe containing the serum and rescues Rosenfeld, another member of the paratrooper squad, who was captured alive. They escape through the base's sewers.

When Boyce and Rosenfeld get back to Chloe's house, Tibbet and Chase have already returned. Wafner refuses to explain what the serum does, even as Ford tortures him. As the squad prepares to attack the church, Wafner attempts to escape, and fatally shoots Chase. Boyce, having seen a dead man supposedly resurrected by the serum in the lab, injects Chase with the syringe. Chase is resurrected, but soon mutates and turns violent. A scuffle ensues, ending with Boyce bludgeoning Chase to death. A patrol responding to the carnage arrives, and a shootout erupts in which the patrol is killed and Ford blows half of Wafner's face off. Wafner escapes with Paul as a hostage and back at the lab, injects himself with two doses of the serum.

Boyce proposes infiltrating the base and destroying the tower from the inside, which would also destroy the laboratory. The other privates support him, and Ford grudgingly agrees. Splitting up, Rosenfeld and Tibbet launch a frontal assault as a distraction, while Ford, Boyce, and Chloe enter the base using the sewers. Boyce and Ford plant the explosives, while Chloe looks for Paul. Chloe finds Paul, sends him back to the village, and successfully kills a mutated test subject who corners her. She returns to the village, where Tibbet and Rosenfeld are pursued by the base's defenders. Tibbet is wounded while shielding Paul from gunfire. Chloe kills the remaining Germans and treats Tibbet's wounds.

Wafner, now mutated and possessing superhuman strength and resilience, overpowers Ford and impales him on a meat hook. Wafner reveals that the serum was made by using the villagers' bodies to distill the ancient power of the black tar, which had been running under the village for centuries. The aim was to create immortal and invincible soldiers to serve the Reich. As Boyce distracts Wafner, Ford pulls the hook out and injects himself with the serum to heal his wounds. He holds off Wafner long enough for Boyce to set off an oxygen tank, which sends Wafner falling into the tar pit. As he begins to mutate, Ford orders Boyce to leave him behind and detonate the explosives, believing neither side should possess the serum. Boyce complies, and narrowly escapes as the church and jamming tower collapse behind him, killing Ford, Wafner, and the test subjects. He joins the others as a radio announces that the D-Day invasion concluded in a victory for the Allies.

In his report, Boyce credits Ford for the decision to plant the bombs inside the church. The commanding officer questions Boyce regarding rumors of an underground lab under the church. Boyce, sharing Ford's view, denies seeing anything worth digging up. The officer seemingly accepts his story, and informs him that they will be reassigned to C Company as the war continues.

####Pacific Rim (film)####
<!--- WP:FILMPLOT 400-700 words. Edits will be reverted if the plot length goes over 700 words. As of November 2022: 688 words. Please make more concise if possible. --->
In 2013, massive alien monsters called Kaiju begin emerging from an interdimensional portal, "the Breach" at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean and attacking coastal cities. In response, humanity builds massive robots called Jaegers, each co-piloted by two or more people who share a mental link by a process called "Drifting" to share the mental stress of piloting the machine.

In 2020, brothers Yancy and Raleigh Becket pilot the American Jaeger, "Gipsy Danger", to defend Anchorage from a Category-3 Kaiju codenamed Knifehead, who severely damages "Gipsy", killing Yancy. Raleigh kills Knifehead and pilots "Gipsy" solo to shore before collapsing. Traumatized by the loss of his brother and the stress of piloting alone, Raleigh quits the Jaeger program.

Five years later, world leaders decide to cease funding for the Jaeger program and replace it with coastal defense walls, since Kaiju attack frequency is increasing and Jaegers are being destroyed quicker than they are built. The walls are quickly proven to be ineffective. The remaining Jaegers are relocated to Hong Kong under the command of Marshal Stacker Pentecost, who plans to try to destroy the Breach using a tactical nuclear weapon, despite unsuccessful previous attempts.

Raleigh, now working in wall construction, is recruited by Pentecost for the mission. At the Hong Kong base, the Shatterdome, Raleigh is introduced to Mako Mori, the director of the Jaeger restoration program and Pentecost's adoptive daughter. Four Jaegers remain operational – the refurbished "Gipsy Danger", the Russian "Cherno Alpha", the Chinese "Crimson Typhoon", and the Australian "Striker Eureka", piloted by father-and-son team, Herc and Chuck Hansen. To find a new co-pilot, Raleigh participates in tryouts, deciding that Mako is "drift-compatible". During their first test, Raleigh falls out of alignment after reliving Yancy's death, causing Mako to become lost in the memory of a Kaiju attack on Tokyo, nearly firing "Gipsy"'s energy cannon. As a result, Pentecost grounds Mako.

Pentecost consults Kaiju experts Newton Geiszler and Hermann Gottlieb. Hermann claims the Breach will stabilize and the Kaiju will increase in number, but it will allow the assault to succeed. Against Pentecost's recommendation, Newton drifts with a Kaiju's brain to learn more about them, discovering that Kaiju are bioweapons grown by aliens so they can colonize Earth. Pentecost instructs Newton to find black market dealer Hannibal Chau to obtain another Kaiju brain to drift with. Newton realizes the Kaiju hive mind gained access to his brain, since drifting is a two-way link, and the two newest Kaiju to emerge, Leatherback and Otachi, are sent simultaneously to find him in Hong Kong.

All Jaegers except "Gipsy Danger" are dispatched to intervene. The Kaijus destroy "Crimson Typhoon" and "Cherno Alpha", while Leatherback disables "Striker Eureka" with an EMP blast, also injuring Herc. As the only non-digital Jaeger, Pentecost sends the nuclear-powered "Gipsy Danger" to help. "Gipsy" manages to defeat Leatherback and Otachi. Newton and Hannibal go to harvest Otachi's secondary brain but discover she is pregnant. The infant Kaiju bursts out and devours Hannibal before choking on its own umbilical cord. Newton and Hermann drift with the infant's brain, discovering that the Breach only opens in the presence of a Kaiju's DNA.

Pentecost reveals to Raleigh he is dying of radiation poisoning due to piloting a first-generation Jaeger alone to save a young Mako, and has been unable to pilot a Jaegar since then. When two new Kaiju are detected guarding the Breach, "Gipsy" and the repaired "Striker", piloted by Pentecost and Chuck, begin their assault. Approaching the Breach, the Jaegers are attacked by the Kaiju alongside a new Category-5 Kaiju, Slattern, leading to "Striker" being crippled. Pentecost and Chuck sacrifice themselves and "Striker" while "Gipsy" slaughters Slattern, riding its corpse into the Breach. Raleigh ejects Mako from "Gipsy", manually triggers "Gipsy"'s nuclear reactor core's self-destruct, and ejects himself before it explodes and seals the Breach. Raleigh and Mako's escape pods surface in the Pacific Ocean; they embrace as rescue helicopters arrive.


####Pacific Rim Uprising####

In 2035, ten years after the Battle of the Breach, in which the portal created by the Precursors (through which they sent Kaiju) was closed,efn|name=Timeline|As depicted in "Pacific Rim" (2013) former Jaeger pilot Jake Pentecost—son of Stacker Pentecost—makes a living by stealing and selling Jaeger parts on the black market in Santa Monica, California. After he tracks part of a disabled Jaeger's power core to the secret workshop of fifteen-year-old Jaeger enthusiast Amara Namani, both are apprehended by the Pan-Pacific Defense Corps (PPDC) following an altercation between Amara's small, single-pilot Jaeger "Scrapper" and the law enforcement Jaeger "November Ajax". Jake's adoptive sister and Japanese Senator Mako Mori persuades him to return to PPDC as an instructor to avoid prison, with Amara as his recruit.

Arriving at the China Shatterdome, Jake starts training Jaeger cadets with his estranged former co-pilot Nathan "Nate" Lambert. Nate and Mako explain that the Jaeger program is threatened by the Shao Corporation's new drone program, which offers to mass-produce Jaeger drones developed by Liwen Shao and Dr. Newton 'Newt' Geiszler. Mako is due to deliver a final assessment to determine the approval of the drones at a PPDC council meeting in Sydney, but is accidentally killed by a rogue Jaeger, "Obsidian Fury," during an altercation with the latter and "Gipsy Avenger," Jake and Nate's Jaeger, before she can. Her death prompts the PPDC council to authorize and deploy the drones immediately. "Obsidian Fury" escapes into the ocean before backup Jaegers can apprehend it.

Moments before her death, Mako had transmitted the location of a defunct Jaeger production facility in Siberia. Jake and Nate travel there in "Gipsy Avenger", but "Obsidian Fury" destroys the complex and engages them in battle. Although "Obsidian Fury" initially has the upper hand, "Gipsy Avenger" is able to overpower the Jaeger. Upon removing its reactor, they find that "Obsidian Fury" was controlled not by humans, but by a Kaiju's secondary brain, which testing shows was grown on Earth.

When the drones reach their respective locations, their piloting operations are hijacked by cloned Kaiju brains secretly mounted onboard. The Kaiju-Jaeger hybrids simultaneously attack all Shatterdomes, inflicting heavy casualties and incapacitating almost all Jaegers. Newt and Dr. Hermann Gottlieb try to disable the drones, but the latter discovers that the former is behind the attack when he commands the Kaiju-Jaeger hybrids to open multiple breaches across the Pacific Rim. Newt's mind has been possessed by the Precursors—who forged a link when he and Hermann drifted with Kaiju brainsefn|name=Timeline—and reveals that he placed the brains in the drones to ensure the Precursors' plan would proceed.

Although Liwen is able to destroy the drones, closing the breaches, three creatures, Hakuja, Shrikethorn, and Raijin had already emerged and reached Tokyo. The team realizes that the Precursors' true goal is to detonate Mount Fuji with the Kaijus' blood which will cause every volcano lining the Ring of Fire to erupt, releasing volcanic matter into the atmosphere and wiping out all life on Earth, simultaneously terraforming the planet for Precursor colonization.

The cadets are mobilized while Hermann and Liwen repair the PPDC's four salvageable Jaegers; Hermann develops Kaiju-blood-powered rockets, which launch the team to Tokyo. Although the Jaegers, including "Gipsy Avenger", initially repel the three Kaiju, Newt merges them into a "Mega-Kaiju" using robotic parasites from one of Liwen's factories. Three of the four Jaegers are destroyed, leaving "Gipsy Avenger" as the only one remaining. Jake and Amara, replacing the injured Nate, pilot it against the Mega-Kaiju, with Liwen remote piloting "Scrapper" and aiding them by locating a rocket and welding it to "Gipsy", which sends the Jaeger (with "Scrapper" holding on) into the atmosphere and free-falling back to Earth, colliding into the Mega-Kaiju and killing it at the last second; Jake and Amara survive by transferring to "Scrapper". Enraged at the Mega-Kaiju's death, Newt attempts to initiate a "Plan B" but is knocked out and captured by Nate. Later, Jake speaks with Newt, who warns of the Precursor's return. Jake states that humanity is preparing for the upcoming war.

####Pandemic (film)####
####Paradox (2016 film)####
####Parallels (film)####
####Past Perfect (1996 film)####
A cop and his partner have to save a young gang member from certain death, as a team of killers from the future are set on a mission to kill the members before their future crimes while they're still mere delinquents.

####Paycheck (film)####
In the near future, Michael Jennings is a reverse engineer; he analyzes his clients' competitors' technology and recreates it with improvements. To protect his clients' intellectual property and himself, Jennings undergoes memory wipes to remove knowledge of his engineering with aid of his friend Shorty.

Jennings is contacted by his college roommate James Rethrick, the CEO of technology company Allcom. Rethrick offers Jennings a lengthy three-year job, during which he will be required to stay on Allcom's campus, in exchange for company stock. Jennings is hesitant but agrees. After being injected with the memory marker, Jennings is given a tour of the campus, where he meets and flirts with biologist Dr. Rachel Porter. Rethrick then introduces Jennings to his work partner, physicist William Dekker.

Three years later, Jennings wakes from the memory wipe and is congratulated by Rethrick. Jennings finds that the Allcom stock he earned is valued at over USD|92 million, but when he goes to see his lawyer to get the funds, he discovers that he had given all the stock away just weeks ago. Further, he is given an envelope claiming to be his possessions on entering Allcom, but it contains a random assortment of items. Confused, Jennings soon finds himself detained by the FBI. Agent Dodge accuses Jennings of having access to classified government designs that had been taken by Dekker, who is now dead. Jennings cannot answer due to the memory wipe, but finds a means to escape using the items in the envelope. As he evades the FBI, Rethrick's right-hand-man John Wolfe sees Jennings walking away and warns Rethrick they have a problem.

Jennings meets with Shorty to try to figure out what happened, but then sees a lottery number result on a television, the numbers matching those on a fortune cookie message in the envelope. He realizes that he must have built a machine at Allcom to see into the future, planting items in that envelope to help fix things. At Allcom, Rethrick tries to use Jennings' machine, but instead finds that it was jury-rigged to go offline after Jennings had left. Rethrick studies Jennings' habits while at Allcom and discovers that he got romantically involved with Porter and left a secret message to meet her at a cafe later that day. Rethrick sends a body double to try to coerce Jennings to turn over the envelope, but the real Porter shows up and rescues Jennings. The two elude the FBI and Rethrick's men. While hiding, they find that the stamps on the envelopes contain microdot images taken from the device, showing newspaper headlines from the future that while Allcom became incredibly successful with the device, it led to international political strife and the United States launching a pre-emptive nuclear strike. They agree that the machine must be destroyed.

Using the last items in the envelope, Jennings and Porter gain access to Allcom and the machine, while separately the FBI have started to investigate Allcom. Jennings discovers the circuit he rigged and fixes it, while booby-trapping the machine to be destroyed in a few minutes. He uses the machine one last time to see himself being shot at by an FBI agent in the catwalks about the machine. Rethrick, Wolfe, and other men arrive, and Jennings and Porter escape to the catwalks. Wolfe tries to use the machine to help track Jennings, while Rethrick corners the pair on the catwalk. FBI agents storm the lab, and one appears on the catwalk, the same tableau that Jennings had seen. As the FBI fires, a watch from the envelope beeps, and Jennings dodges in time for the bullet to fatally hit Rethrick. Wolfe is killed as Jennings' booby-trap goes off and destroys the machine. After the chaos dies down and the FBI begin a full investigation, Agent Dodge finds the watch Jennings had used, but consequently hides it and declares him dead.

Elsewhere, Jennings, Porter, and Shorty have moved to the countryside. Shorty was able to use his influence to rescue the cage of a pair of lovebirds Porter had been raising at Allcom. Recalling the fortune cookie message from the envelope, Jennings looks in the cage and finds a lottery ticket for the winning jackpot of USD|90 million.

####Peacemaker (1990 film)####

An alien spacecraft is seen entering the Earth's atmosphere near Los Angeles and crashes into the Pacific Ocean. Nearby, two lovers, witness the crash and one goes to see if anyone survive. As the other awaits on the beach, she's frighten when a strange man appears. When she screams her boyfriend runs to see only to find her alone, begging him to take her home.

Meanwhile, the stranger, apparently the traveler who survived the crash, (Lance Edwards), makes his way to the city, finds a police cruiser and attempts to steal a shotgun but is caught doing so by a police officer. But in trying to arrest the stranger, the officer is thrown over five feet, with one punch by the stranger, into the cruiser's windshield while being handcuffed which alerts the other officer who arrives to help and fires his weapon only to see the Stranger fall and, immediately, rise and run away. During the pursuit, the stranger hurdles over and clears a high wooden fence and runs into a heavy wooden door only to be momentarily stopped. Upon which he runs into and breaks down the door with his body.

Running to elude the police, he rushes into an apartment that is occupied by several people. When they pull out knives to defend themselves, the stranger attacks them, throwing the woman through the apartment door when the police officers arrive. The officer stare inside as they watch the stranger make short work of the two men. One, he sends through the apartment wall. When the officers fires on him he crashes through the apartment window and falls to the ground.

When the officers go down to see the body, They're startled to see the stranger quickly rise up screaming and they fire their guns, apparently, killing him. It's then when one officer asks to check under the Stranger's jacket to see if the stranger had large, "S" under it remarking, "I think we just killed 'Clark Kent.'"

Later, the stranger's body is taken to the medical examiner. At the same time, a man, (Robert Forster), monitoring the police, hears of the spacecraft crashing and a possible suspect killed and sent to the Morgue, and rushes out of his seedy apartment with a .44 Magnum revolver in hand.

The Stranger's body is about to be examined by Asst. Medical Examiner Dori Caisson, (Hilary Shepard), when she sees that the bullet holes on his body start to glow and his skin miraculously heal. Still staring, she's horrified to see the stranger rise from the autopsy table and seize her. As they leave, they're stopped by the security guard, Moses, (Wally Taylor), who is attacked by the stranger and is rendered unconscious. The stranger forces Dori out to the roof parking lot and into her car. It's then that the man from the apartment rushes up and aims his gun at the stranger who yells out the man's name (which sounds like "Yates", which is the man's name in the Alien's language). With Yates firing his gun at him, the stranger, who's at the steering wheel, drives forward, and abruptly starts into reverse, at high speed, toward Yates knocking him over the side of the building where he lands into a tree, severely injured. Yates runs off where he brakes into a closed library and he begins to heal in the same manner as the stranger.

At the Examiner's Office the guard is questioned by Detective Sergeant Frank Ramos (Robert Davi), with the Chief Medical Examiner, "Doc", (Bert Remsen) present. He explains that Dori was kidnapped by one of the "corpses" who attacked him and fled with her. Ramos does not believe Moses, but Doc tells him that the body of the stranger, who was killed by the police officers, is missing.

Dori and the stranger end up at her home where he forces her into a chair and turns on her TV and radio to listening to all the programs. When Dori attempts to call the Police, thinking the Stranger distracted, he catches her and ties her up with the telephone cord and later they fall asleep. the next day Dori awakes to find the stranger wearing her late husband clothes. When she ask why he's wearing them she was surprised to find the stranger say "Forgive me, I was cold."

Saying that she did not believe that he understood her, he remarked that he could not until he had listened to all the TV programs. Dori remarked that he was not from around here to which he said "No. I'm from another planet". Still shocked after thinking he was dead, the stranger wondered why Dori thought he was dead because he had not begun to decompose. Dori stated that his injuries where fatal to humans. The stranger explained that his kind regenerate their major organs and die only after they suffer massive damage to their brain. When the stranger inquired as to humans, Dori wryly says, "No, we just go to work for the Department of Motor Vehicles". Baffled by the joke because his kind do not joke nor understand them, Dori tricks the stranger and escapes only to be caught at her car with her behind the steering wheel. Attempting to flee, she threaten to run him over. The stranger stops her by putting his foot on her car's bumper as she tries running him down.

Dori pleaded with him to let her go. The Stranger stated that he needed her to get his clothing for his crashed ship to lift off because the control card was in them and that he must return to his world because he is a "Peacemaker". "A policeman". Surprised and upset, Dori asked his name. He said "Townsend". Looking a little disappointed Dori said, "I thought your name would be Darth Vader or something".

Meanwhile, Yates is caught by the police, that day, in the Library and handcuffed. He then shears off his hand that was cuffed and escapes. Going to a phone booth, Yates finds Dori's address. Dori and Townsend, finding that the police was looking for them and that they could not get to the control card return to Dori's home to find Yates waiting and he attacks them. Knocking out Dori and damaging her home, Yates flees, with Townsend chasing him. Yates steals a pickup truck. With Townsend in the back of the truck they fight over control of it. Dori is discovered by Ramos at her home and is notified that Townsend and Yates were seen and that police cruisers was dispatched to stop them. After crashing through roadblocks and high-speed police chases, the truck swerves and explodes into flames.

Later that day, Ramos questions Dori at the police station about the attack on her and why Townsend, apparently not dead, kidnapped her. She said that she could not say positively why he was not dead but that both Yates and Townsend were possibly high on and drugs and that fooled her and cause the attack. Ramos, not believing but having no other explanation, lets Dori go.

Dori goes to her destroyed home only be captured by Yates who takes her to a deserted location. With wounds, Yates tells Dori that he is a Peacemaker and that Townsend was sent to kill someone who was in his world's Witness Protection. As Yates regenerates he tells Dori that when he joked with her, he could because he had lived on Earth for over 20 years and that if Townsend had a black card with him he needed it because it had the identity of Townsend's victim. Dori, somewhat believing, returns to her home only to be captured by Townsend this time, Who take her to a motel and now tries to convince her that Yates is lying and is a serial killer he was pursuing when they entered a "black hole" together. Before Dori could have the chance to believe him a S.W.A.T team surrounds the motel with Ramos in charge. Ordering Townsend to surrender, Townsend, dragging Dori, escapes by going through the walls into adjacent rooms and steals a motel patron's car.

Still not being sure and Townsend having a gun, Dori helps Townsend find a cheap hotel to hold up but has second thoughts about him and she escapes him by running over him in a delivery van. Townsend hangs on but is scraped from underneath the van after holding onto the tailpipe. Dori finds Yates and take him to Townsend. Townsend, surprised at Dori, faces Yates who suddenly turns his gun on Dori and threaten to kill her if Townsend did not surrender the control card. Dori, surprised, as well, asked "How could you both have traveled here and arrived differently?" Yates sarcastically said that "We entered the blackhole at the same time but we came out 20 years apart". Still threaten Dori, Yates starts to torture her. Townsend relents and lays down his shotgun.

Looking at Townsend, Yates tells him to open his jacket where Townsend has a "nasty scar". Telling Yates he got it by being run over by a van, Yates, mockingly jokes, "You do look a little "run down" and turns to Dori and says mockingly, "A joke". With Yates distracted Townsend attacks him and both fight. Yates gets the upper hand, however, and has Townsend dangling from a terrace. Dori, seeing Townsend, attacks Yates but he hits her and places the muzzle of the gun in her mouth to kill her. Townsend, still dangling, reaches into his wound and produce a .38 caliber revolver and fires it into Yates' head where he falls onto electric wires, burst into flames and falls to the ground where he explodes and decomposes in less than 20 seconds.

The commotion brings Ramos to the hotel and finds Dori with Townsend's body. Ramos ask what happen and how did Townsend die this time. Dori came up with a plausible explanation to where Ramos ask "Is that the truth?" Dori's only answer is "Well, it's my story and i'm sticking to it".

Later, at the Medical Examiner's, Dori opens the vault that holds Townsend's body and looking down on him he opens his eyes and looks at her. She smiles and, holding the control card she says "Surf's Up". On the beach, Dori knowing that Townsend was going to try for his ship, with her head hanging down, she tells him "Why do you even have to try?" Townsend remarks, "Because i am a Peacemaker!" Dori, at last says "I wish I could say a joke about now." Townsend, sadly says "Why? I would not understand it, anyway".

####The Philadelphia Experiment (film)####
In 1943, United States Navy sailors David Herdeg and Jim Parker serve aboard destroyer escort USS "Eldridge", docked in Philadelphia. Doctor James Longstreet and his team conduct an experiment to render the ship invisible to radar, but a malfunction causes the ship to disappear. David and Jim's attempts to stop the experiment fail and they jump overboard to escape.

They land during the night in a small town, which also disappears, leaving them marooned in a desert. Startled by the appearance of an unfamiliar aircraft (a helicopter), they flee and Jim is nearly electrocuted by an electric fence. Eventually, they find their way to a roadside diner. An energy discharge from Jim destroys two arcade games, forcing an altercation with the owner. Fleeing to the parking lot, they take a woman named Allison hostage and force her to drive them away. Confused by their surroundings, they are shocked when Allison tells them that the year is 1984. They are tracked and apprehended by the police. Jim, who is suffering increasingly severe seizures, is hospitalized before disappearing from his hospital bed in a flash of light. David and Allison then evade military police, who have arrived to take David into custody.

Learning that they are near Jim's birthplace, Santa Paula California, David decides to try to find his family. Jim's wife Pamela, who is now a senior citizen, immediately recognizes David from 1943. She says that the "Eldridge" had reappeared minutes after disappearing. Jim had also returned and had been chastised and hospitalized after telling the truth about temporarily visiting 1984. David finds that he himself never returned. David sees an elderly Jim outside a window but Jim refuses to speak with him. As David and Allison leave, they see military police approaching and a high speed chase through Jim's ranch ensues. The two manage to elude them when the pursuing vehicle crashes and burns. From the burning wreck, David salvages documents mentioning Longstreet. Recognizing that Longstreet had been involved with the Philadelphia experiment in 1943, David decides to find him. As they spend time together, David and Allison fall in love.

In 1984, Longstreet has attempted to use the same technologies that were used in the "Eldridge" experiment to create a shield as protection from an ICBM attack. When the equipment was tested, the shielded town disappeared into "hyperspace". The scientists are unable to shut down the experiment, which has created a vortex that is drawing matter into it and causes extremely unstable and severe weather. Longstreet predicts that the vortex will continue to expand until the entire world is consumed. The scientists send a probe into the vortex and discover the "Eldridge" inside. They theorize that the two experiments have linked together with the generators on the "Eldridge" powering the vortex.

David captures an assistant at Longstreet's home and forces the man to take them onto the base. Longstreet explains the situation to David and tells him that, according to surviving sailors from the "Eldridge", the ship returned to Philadelphia in 1943 after David shut down the generator. Longstreet says that David must go through the vortex to the "Eldridge" and terminate the experiment or the vortex will destroy the Earth.

David is outfitted with an electrically insulated suit and catapulted into the vortex. He lands on the deck of the "Eldridge", where he finds crew members badly injured. He hurries to the generator room and smashes arrays of vacuum tubes using a firefighting axe. The generator shuts down and David looks for Jim. Assured that Jim is fine, David jumps over the side of the ship and disappears. Back in 1943, Longstreet and others watch the "Eldridge" reappear in Philadelphia, revealing crew members with severe burns, while others have been fused alive into the ship's hull.

In 1984, the missing town reappears as Allison and David are reunited.

####Pitch Black (film)####
In the distant future, the spaceship "Hunter-Gratzner" is transporting passengers in cryostasis. Among them is Abu "Imam" al-Walid, a Muslim priest guiding three young pilgrims to New Mecca; a teenager named Jack; a pair of prospectors named Shazza and Zeke; a rich merchant named Paris; and a bounty hunter posing as a law enforcement officer, William J. Johns, who is escorting notorious criminal Richard B. Riddick. Riddick has surgically modified eyes that are highly sensitive to light. Micrometeoroids rupture the ship's hull, killing the captain and sending the ship off course. The ship's first officer, Owens, and the docking pilot, Carolyn Fry, attempt to land the ship on a nearby planet. As the ship falls apart, Fry decides to dump the passenger section to reduce weight, but Owens stops her. The vessel crashes into the planet's surface, most of the passengers are killed, and Owens is fatally wounded. Riddick escapes into the desert despite Johns' attempts to keep him restrained.

The survivors explore their surroundings, noticing that the planet's three suns keep it in perpetual daylight. They find an abandoned geological research settlement, with a water well and a dropship that lacks power to fly. Zeke goes missing, and Riddick is suspected; while searching for Zeke, Fry escapes from aggressive photosensitive creatures after finding his remains in their cave. Johns recaptures Riddick and offers him a deal: if he helps the survivors escape the planet, Johns will allow him to go free. The group takes a power cell to the dropship. One of the young pilgrims is ambushed and eaten while exploring the settlement. An orrery shows that an eclipse is imminent and the creatures will be free to hunt above ground.  They realize the geologists must have been all killed by the creatures during the last eclipse. Johns informs Fry that Riddick is a capable pilot and could abandon them, and Riddick reveals that Johns is actually a bounty hunter and morphine addict who denied Owens the drug in his final moments.

The group returns to the crash site on a solar-powered sand truck to salvage more power cells for the dropship before the eclipse, but it begins as they get there. Creatures pour out of the ground and devour Shazza and another pilgrim. With his enhanced sight, Riddick agrees to lead the group to the dropship on foot through the darkness. They build a rig from the ship's lighting rods as protection; Paris accidentally destroys the rig and is devoured. Riddick reveals to the group that Jack is female and the scent of her menstrual blood is drawing the attention of the creatures; Johns suggests to Riddick that they use her as bait. Instead, Riddick fights and wounds Johns and leaves him as a distraction. The rest of the group pushes on as Riddick drags the power cells behind him.

After Imam's last acolyte is killed and rainfall starts putting out their improvised torches, Riddick hides the others in a cave and goes to start the dropship himself. Inside the cave, the group discovers bioluminescent worms, which they stuff in bottles to use as light. Fry leaves the cave and finds Riddick powering the ship, ready to leave. She pleads with him to help her rescue the others, but instead he offers to take her with him. Riddick is soon persuaded to return after Fry answers his question that she would die for them, and they retrieve Imam and Jack, but Riddick is separated and wounded by the predators; Fry goes back for him but a creature stabs and carries her off. Riddick makes it to the ship and delays engaging the engines to incinerate as many creatures as possible. In space, Jack asks Riddick what they should tell the authorities about him; he tells her to say that Riddick died on the planet.

####Pixels (2015 film)####
At a video game arcade in 1982 with his friend Will Cooper, 13-year-old Sam Brenner seemingly loses a championship game of "Donkey Kong" to obnoxious Eddie "The Fireblaster" Plant. Videocassette footage of the event is included in a time capsule launched into space. In the present day, Brenner is an electronics installer while Cooper is the unpopular President of the United States. In Guam, the Andersen Air Force Base is besieged by an extraterrestrial force attacking in the form of "Galaga" and a soldier is abducted.

Brenner works at the home of divorced U.S. Navy Commander Violet van Patten, and the two are separately summoned to the White House. Upon seeing the video footage and meeting with Ludlow "The Wonder Kid" Lamonsoff, Brenner deduces that the aliens have somehow mistaken the videocassette images for a declaration of war, and are attacking Earth with a strange technology that allows them to morph into the video games featured at the championship. The aliens interrupt a television broadcast using footage from the cassette, challenging the people of Earth to a battle where if the aliens win three times, they will conquer the planet. Brenner and Cooper are unable to stop one of the attacks as the Taj Mahal is damaged by the aliens in the form of "Arkanoid" and a bystander is abducted.

Brenner and Ludlow train Navy SEALs to play the games. Violet develops rayguns that are effective against the aliens. The team later heads to London, where the aliens attack Hyde Park in the form of "Centipede". The soldiers begin to lose, so Brenner and Ludlow step in and shoot them down. The aliens send congratulations and a "trophy" in the form of the "Duck Hunt" dog to an old lady.

Ludlow and Cooper retrieve Eddie from a prison sentence for fraud before going to New York City. There, the team must fight an alien taking the form of a giant Pac-Man, playing as the ghosts. Toru Iwatani, creator of "Pac-Man", tries to reason with Pac-Man peacefully, but gets his hand bitten off. Brenner, Ludlow, and Eddie overcome the challenge using modified Mini Cooper cars, but Violet notices Eddie moved at supersonic speeds around the board. Brenner is able to trick Pac-Man into going after him once the effects of the power pellet run out. They win Q*Bert as a trophy. During a celebratory party, however, the aliens announce that the challenge for the planet has been forfeited because someone cheated. Violet's son Matty discovers that not only did Eddie use a speed cheat during the battle against Pac-Man, but while playing "Donkey Kong" against Brenner as well. Eddie flees while Matty is abducted by the aliens.

The aliens launch a massive attack on Washington, D.C. using an army of video game characters and enemies. Cooper joins the team, while Ludlow stays to fight. An alien takes the form of "Lady Lisa", a video game character on whom Ludlow has had a crush since childhood. Ludlow persuades Lisa to choose love and side with the humans as Eddie, wishing to make amends, returns to fight. Brenner, Violet and Cooper are summoned to the aliens' mothership for one last chance to save Earth, where they face their leader, who takes the form of Donkey Kong, on the starting level with the aliens' captives at the top level. As the group dodges barrels and fireballs, Brenner is losing hope until Matty reveals Eddie cheated at "Donkey Kong", meaning that Brenner was the world's best "Donkey Kong" player. This restores Brenner's spirit, allowing him to keep fighting. Once Brenner defeats Donkey Kong, the aliens' forces, including Lisa, disappear from Earth.

The team is hailed as heroes and Cooper manages to reach a peace agreement with the aliens. Eddie apologizes to Brenner for cheating, and although Ludlow is saddened that Lisa is gone, Q*Bert transforms its likeness to Lady Lisa. Brenner and Violet become a couple while Eddie gets to meet Serena Williams and Martha Stewart. The aliens restore everything on Earth, including Iwatani's hand, before their departure. A year later, Lady Lisa and Ludlow marry and have Q*Bert-like children.

####Plughead Rewired: Circuitry Man II####
####The Postman (film)####

In 2013, an unnamed nomad wanders the scattered communities of the Utah flatlands, trading performances of long-forgotten Shakespearean plays for food and water. At one town, the nomad is forced at gunpoint into the ranks of the Holnists, a neo-fascist militia, and is branded on his shoulder with their symbol, a figure 8. The Holnists, under their leader, General Bethlehem, are the de facto authority in the area, collecting tribute and recruits from local towns. Bethlehem is impressed with the nomad's knowledge of classic literature, referring to the nomad as Shakespeare, and each quote's lines from his plays. When the nomad escapes from the Holnists, he takes refuge in a long-deceased postman's mail vehicle.

With the postman's uniform and mail bag, he arrives in the settlement of Pineview claiming to be from the newly-restored U.S. government based in Minneapolis and led by President Richard Starkey. He convinces Pineview's leader, Sheriff Briscoe, to let him in by showing a letter addressed to elderly villager Irene March. The postman inspires a teenager named Ford Lincoln Mercury, who asks to be sworn in as a member of the postal service and even helps him set up a post office for the town. The postman also meets spouses Abby and Michael who are unable to conceive a child. He fulfills their clinical request to impregnate her. When the postman leaves for the town of Benning, he carries a pile of mail left at the post office door by the townspeople.

During a raid of Pineview, General Bethlehem learns of the postman's tales of a restored government and becomes afraid of losing power if word spreads. He has the post office burned to the ground, kills Michael and Briscoe, abducts Abby, and raids Benning looking for the postman. The postman surrenders, but Bethlehem does not recognize him since he has shaved off his thick beard. As the postman is about to be executed Abby saves him, and the two escape into the surrounding mountains. A pregnant Abby and an injured postman ride out the winter in an abandoned cabin. When spring arrives, they leave and run into a girl, who claims to be a postal carrier. She reveals that Mercury has kept the postal service alive by recruiting other carriers and building more post offices. They have established communications with other settlements, creating a quasi-society and inadvertently spreading hope. The postman discovers that Mercury has been forging letters from the postman and reading them to his recruits as a motivational tool.

Bethlehem continues to hunt and capture postal carriers, all of whom are executed and displayed publicly. Feeling responsible, the postman writes his own fake letter from President Starkey, ordering the postman back to Minneapolis and that the postal service is to be disbanded. The postman also writes a letter to Bethlehem revealing the truth of his letter carrier deception. However, Bethlehem learns to his dismay that the postman's example has spread farther than he could have anticipated when his men capture a carrier from California, and he redoubles his efforts to find the postman. The postman and Abby, closely followed by young carriers Eddie, Ponytail, and Billy, travel to Bridge City. When Bethlehem's scouts catch up, the mayor helps the postman kill the Holnists and then escape on a cable car, urging him to find others willing to resist Bethlehem. Before leaving, he and Abby reciprocate their feelings and fall in love.

The mounted carriers and Holnists meet across a field from each other. The postman and a small contingent meet with Bethlehem under a white flag of truce to discuss the coming battle. To Bethlehem's surprise, the postman challenges him for leadership of the Holnists. As only branded members can challenge for leadership, Bethlehem dismisses him. The postman then rips off the sleeve of his shirt revealing the figure 8 brand of the clan, causing Bethlehem to angrily question who he really is and how he got the brand. The postman then recites a line from King Henry V's speech prior to the siege of Harfleur, and Bethlehem realizes that the postman is actually the thespian nomad who he called Shakespeare. Bethlehem and the postman engage in a brutal fight to the death, with the postman eventually winning, and he spares Bethlehem's life to maintain morale. Bethlehem tries to shoot the postman in the back with his revolver, but he is shot dead by his own second-in-command, Col. Getty. Getty then surrenders, and the rest of the Holnists follow his lead. As the postman is now the leader of their clan, he issues new orders that the Holnists will from then on help people rebuild society and protect the weak.

Thirty years later, the postman's grown daughter Hope, accompanied by other public figures and servicemen (including postal workers), speaks at a ceremony unveiling a bronze statue by territorial waters in St. Rose, Oregon in tribute to her father, who has recently died (1973–2043). Her speech, along with the fact that all the attendees are wearing modern clothing and using technology, reveal that the postman and his mail carriers' actions have helped rebuild the United States.

####Power Rangers (film)####

In the Cenozoic era, a team of warriors known as the Power Rangers are tasked with protecting life on Earth and the Zeo Crystal. The Green Ranger, Rita Repulsa, betrays them and plans to dominate the universe. The Red Ranger, Zordon, survives Rita's attack and hides five of the Power Coins. He orders Alpha 5, his robotic assistant, to perform a meteor strike that kills him, the dinosaurs, and sends Rita to the bottom of the sea, foiling her scheme.

Sixty-five million years later in the town of Angel Grove, high school football star Jason Scott is dismissed from the team and placed under house arrest after a prank led to a car crash while escaping the police. In detention, he encounters autistic class nerd Billy Cranston and former cheerleader Kimberly Hart. Billy is placed in detention after experimenting explosives using his lunchbox while Kimberly is placed in detention for cyberbullying. After defending Billy from a bully, Billy offers to deactivate Jason's ankle monitor for help at an old gold mine that evening. Once there, Jason leaves to explore and runs into Kimberly. Billy detonates explosives to break some rock, attracting the attention of Jason, Kimberly and nearby students Trini Kwan and Zack Taylor. The five discover the Power Coins and each take one. While escaping mine security, their car is hit by a train. The five find themselves at home Monday morning and discover that the coins have granted them superhuman abilities. Elsewhere, Rita's body is found. Waking, she goes on a rampage, hunting pieces of gold to raise her minion Goldar to find the Zeo Crystal.

The five teenagers return to the mine and discover an ancient spaceship where they meet Alpha 5 and Zordon's consciousness. They inform the teenagers about the Rangers' history and Rita, warning that they have less than two weeks until Rita has her full power, finds the Zeo Crystal, and uses it to destroy life on Earth. Zordon pleads with Jason to convince the team to help.

The five spend the next week training against simulated Putties and trying to morph, to little success. To inspire the Rangers, Alpha reveals the Zords. Zack takes his Zord out for a joyride and almost kills the other Rangers when he crashes it. This angers Jason, and they fight. While trying to separate the two, Billy spontaneously morphs. However, when he becomes conscious of it, the armor disappears. Angered at their lack of progress, Zordon dismisses the group. Jason returns to the ship to confront Zordon and discovers that once the Rangers morph, it will open the Morphing Grid and allow Zordon to restore himself to a physical body. Feeling betrayed, Jason accuses Zordon of bringing the team together for the sole purpose of escaping the Grid. That night, the team camp at the mine and bond with each other.

Later that night, Rita attacks Trini and orders her to bring the Rangers to the docks. Trini informs them about Rita and they arrive to fight but are quickly defeated. Rita forces Billy to reveal the location of the Zeo Crystal, which he figured out is under a Krispy Kreme, kills him, and releases the others. The Rangers take Billy's body to the ship and ask Zordon to resurrect him, but he says he is unable to do so. The Rangers agree they would give their lives for each other and resolve to defeat Rita. In doing so, they unlock the Morphing Grid. Zordon revives Billy, sacrificing ever being able to restore his physical self. With the team restored and confident, the Rangers morph into their armor.

Rita creates Goldar, raises an army of Putties, and attacks Angel Grove to find the Zeo Crystal. The Rangers battle the Putties and head to Angel Grove in their Zords. After the Rangers destroy the Putties, Goldar pushes the Rangers and their Zords into a fiery pit. In the pit, the Zords combine and form the Megazord. Rita merges with Goldar. The Rangers battle and destroy Goldar. After refusing Jason's offer to surrender, a defiant Rita tells the Rangers that more will come for the Zeo  Crystal and leaps at the Megazord only to be slapped into space. The Rangers are praised as local heroes, and with Rita defeated, they return to their normal lives while keeping their new powers.

Back at school, the teacher announces that Tommy Oliver will be joining them, but the desk is empty save for a green jacket.efn|In the source material, Tommy Oliver was a male, but the cast of the film and the actor who played Oliver in the source material expressed interest in a female version of the character in a sequel.

####The Powerpuff Girls Movie####
####Prayer of the Rollerboys####
####Precious Find####
In the future, at Moon City, fate brings three adventurers together: a space ship owner, a young prospector, and a shady entrepreneur who are looking for gold on an asteroid. There they find a mine. After the prospector returns to Moon City to get water, he is followed by two soldiers of fortune, a man and a woman. The two join the three adventures.

Frictions occur because the gold rush gives the entrepreneur a bad temper, the prospector and the woman get romantically involved, a monster attacks, and bandits visit the place. The movie ends with the death of the bandits and the entrepreneur, and the space ship owner, the prospector, and the woman going for new adventures searching for gold.

####Predator (film)####

An alien spacecraft deploys a shuttle to Earth, where Vietnam War veteran Major Alan "Dutch" Schaefer and his military rescue team, consisting of Mac, Poncho, Blain, Billy, and Hawkins, are tasked with rescuing a foreign cabinet minister and his aide from insurgents in an unspecified South American country. CIA officer Al Dillon, a Vietnam War buddy of Dutch's, is assigned to accompany the team over Dutch's objections. En route, the team discovers the wreckage of a helicopter and three skinned corpses. Dutch identifies them as Green Berets that he knew and becomes suspicious of Dillon's intentions. The team reaches the guerilla camp and witnesses the execution of a hostage. They mount an attack, killing most of the rebels and several Soviet intelligence officers. Dutch confronts Dillon, who reveals their true mission was to stop a planned Soviet-backed invasion and that the CIA sent the Green Berets weeks earlier for the same mission.

The only surviving guerilla, Anna, is captured. Learning that more rebels are coming, the team chooses to trek to the extraction point. They are followed by an entity employing a cloaking device and thermal imaging technology, but a spooked Billy glimpses it, creating a situation where Anna attempts an escape. Hawkins catches her, but the creature attacks and kills him while sparing Anna. Dutch organizes a search party, but Blain is killed by the creature's plasma cannon. Enraged, Mac provokes everyone to blindly fire their weapons into the jungle, unknowingly wounding the creature. As the creature administers first-aid to itself, the commandos regroup and realize they are being hunted. Dillon believes two or three guerrillas are responsible, but Billy is adamant that their pursuer is not human. They make camp for the night and set traps, which are triggered by a wild boar. In the confusion, Mac kills it while the creature steals Blain's body.

Dutch later realizes that their enemy uses the trees to travel and frees Anna, who states that her people had seen similarly mutilated bodies before. The next day, the group constructs a net trap and captures the creature, but it frees itself and Poncho is injured. Mac and Dillon pursue it but are outmaneuvered and killed. As the survivors flee, Billy stays behind to fight the creature. The creature kills Billy before following the survivors and killing Poncho. Realizing it does not attack unarmed individuals, Dutch tells the unarmed Anna to get to the chopper. Dutch attempts to distract the creature by fleeing but is followed to a muddy riverbank and covered in mud. The creature fails to see him and leaves to collect trophies from the others. Dutch realizes the cool mud provided camouflage for his body heat. He crafts makeshift traps and weapons and lures the creature out at night with a war cry and torch.

Dutch lightly injures the creature and disables its cloaking device as the creature fires wildly into the forest, and tries to escape, but accidentally falls into the river, where the water dissolves his muddy camouflage. As the creature corners Dutch, it removes its mask and plasma cannon to fight him hand-to-hand, having deemed him a worthy opponent. Despite being overpowered and outsmarted, Dutch attempts to goad the creature into a booby trap. It goes around, but Dutch triggers the trap anyway, crushing the creature with the trap's counterweight. With the alien mortally wounded, he asks it, "What the hell are you?". The creature repeats the question back to Dutch and activates its self-destruct device, maniacally laughing as it counts down. Upon realizing what it has done, Dutch runs for cover and survives the explosion. He is then rescued by the extraction helicopter, with Anna already safely onboard, though he is left traumatized by the experience.

####Predator 2####
In 1997, Los Angeles is suffering from a heat wave and a turf war between heavily armed Colombian and Jamaican drug cartels. A Predator watches a shootout between the police, Jamaicans, and Colombians, observing as Lieutenant Michael R. Harrigan charges into the firefight to rescue two wounded officers and drive the Colombians back into their hideout. The Predator assaults the Colombians, causing a disturbance that prompts Harrigan and detectives Leona Cantrell and Danny Archuleta to defy orders and enter the hideout, where they find the slaughtered Colombians. On the roof, Harrigan shoots the crazed gang leader and catches a glimpse of the camouflaged Predator, but dismisses it as a consequence of the extreme heat and his acrophobia. At the station, Harrigan is reprimanded by his superiors for his disobedience and introduced to Special Agent Peter Keyes, leader of a task force investigating the cartels, and Detective Jerry Lambert, the newest member of Harrigan's team.

Later that evening, Jamaicans invade the Colombian drug lord's penthouse and murder him before they are murdered in turn by the Predator. Upon their arrival, Harrigan's team notes the similarities between the current crime scene and the earlier Colombian massacre until Keyes's team arrives and removes them. Archuleta returns to conduct a solo investigation, finding one of the Predator's spear tips before the creature kills him. As an enraged Harrigan vows to stop Archuleta's killer, forensic analysis reveals the spear tip is not composed of any known element on the periodic table. Seeking answers, Harrigan meets with Jamaican drug lord King Willie, a voodoo practitioner who believes the killer is supernatural and that he should prepare himself for battle against it. Harrigan leaves before the Predator kills King Willie, taking his head as a trophy. Tracing a lead indicating Archuleta's killer had recently been in a slaughterhouse, Harrigan arranges to meet his team at the warehouse district to investigate.

Cantrell and Lambert take the subway there, but are ambushed by the Predator, who kills Lambert and numerous armed passengers but spares Cantrell after its helmet's scanners indicate that she is pregnant. Arriving in time to see it claim Lambert’s head, Harrigan chases the fleeing Predator, but is intercepted by Keyes's men. Keyes reveals that the monster is an extraterrestrial hunter with infrared vision and active camouflage that has been hunting humans for sport throughout several armed conflicts, most recently one decade prior in Central America. Keyes and his team have set a trap in a nearby slaughterhouse, using thermally insulated suits with mounted ultraviolet lights and cryogenic weapons to capture it for study. Upon arrival, the suspicious Predator uses its scanners to track, outmaneuver, and slaughter Keyes's men via their lights.

Harrigan attacks and wounds the Predator, but it destroys his weapon. It nearly kills him before Keyes tries to freeze the creature, only to be bisected by the Predator's Smart Disc. The Predator chases Harrigan to the roof, where they clash until they are left hanging from a ledge. The creature activates a self-destruct device on its forearm, which Harrigan severs with the disc, disarming it. The Predator falls into an apartment, where it treats its wounds and flees. Harrigan pursues it to a spacecraft hidden underground and eventually kills the Predator with its disc. A group of Predators emerge to collect their dead comrade and give Harrigan an antique flintlock pistol as a trophy. As the ship takes off, Harrigan escapes to the surface and meets with the remainder of Keyes's team. As Keyes's subordinate Garber curses their lost opportunity to capture the creature, Harrigan privately muses that the beings will return.

####The Predator (film)####

A Predator ship crash-lands on Earth. U.S. Army Ranger sniper Quinn McKenna and his team are attacked by the Predator while on a hostage retrieval mission. McKenna incapacitates the Predator and has parts of its armor sent off by mail to prove the existence of extraterrestrial life. Government agent Will Traeger has McKenna captured and held for examination. Traeger also takes the Predator to a lab for experimentation and observation, recruiting evolutionary biologist Casey Bracket to study it, who discovers that the Predator's genetic makeup contains human DNA. The Predator awakens, breaks out of its restraints, and kills the lab workers and armed guards, but spares Bracket, the only unarmed person, before escaping.

McKenna is bussed off with a group of other government captives, including former Marines "Nebraska" Williams, Coyle, Baxley, Lynch, and Army helicopter pilot Nettles. Witnessing the Predator's escape from the lab, they hijack the bus. Taking Bracket with them, they head over to McKenna's estranged wife, Emily, where he expects to find the Predator armor he mailed off. However, Rory, McKenna's autistic son, has gone trick-or-treating in the armor in hopes of avoiding detection from bullies.

McKenna and the others find his son in time to stop a pair of Predator Hounds from ambushing the boy. McKenna blows one up by shooting a grenade into its mouth; Nebraska unintentionally lobotomizes the other dog after shooting it in the head. The Predator chases them into a nearby school and they start to give the Predator's armor back when a larger, more powerful Predator arrives and engages the first in combat. The group flees, and the second Predator kills the first before setting out to retrieve the lost technology.

Bracket concludes that the Predators are attempting to improve themselves with the DNA of humans and, presumably, other planets' inhabitants. She mentions that the larger Predator generates an exoskeleton that renders him resistant to damage, even from weapons of Predator technology. The team flees to an abandoned barn, but Traeger finds and captures them, and shares his theory that the Predators anticipate that climate change will end their ability to retrieve human DNA for further hybridization, and as such are scrambling to retrieve samples before it is too late. Seeing Rory drawing a map to the spaceship, Traeger takes the boy to the ship. The team escapes and goes after him with the help of the now docile, brain-damaged Predator hound.

Once all have arrived at the crashed ship, the second Predator arrives, kills Lynch, and explains through translation software that it will destroy the ship to keep it out of their hands and then give them all a head start before it hunts them down. The Predator quickly kills several of Traeger's soldiers while mortally wounding Baxley and Coyle, who then euthanize each other. Traeger tries to use a Predator weapon on the alien but accidentally kills himself instead.

The Predator takes Rory, assuming his autism as an advancement in human evolution which makes him a worthwhile subject for hybridization, and flies away in his ship. McKenna, Nebraska, and Nettles land on the ship's exterior, but the Predator activates a force field that slices off Nettles' legs, and he falls off the ship to his death. Nebraska sacrifices himself and slides into the ship's turbine, causing it to crash. McKenna sneaks into the ship as it crashes and attacks the Predator. After the crash, Bracket arrives, and the three manage to overpower and kill the Predator with its weapons. They pay their respects to their fallen comrades with trinkets representing each one before heading off.

Later, McKenna and Rory are seen in a science lab watching the opening of cargo found on the Predator's ship, which a scientist indicates was left behind intentionally. A piece of technology floats out and attaches itself to a lab worker, working as a transformative "Predator killer" suit before deactivating. Realizing the first Predator was trying to pass it on to humanity for a fair fight against the larger Predators, McKenna indicates he will be the pilot to operate the suit.

####Predators (film)####

Royce awakens to find himself free falling into an unfamiliar jungle and meets several others who arrive in the same manner: Los Zetas cartel enforcer Cuchillo, Spetsnaz soldier Nikolai, IDF sniper Isabelle, RUF officer Mombasa, San Quentin death row inmate Stans, Yakuza member Hanzo, and physician Edwin. The group follows Royce, whom Isabelle suspects is a former black operations soldier turned mercenary. In the jungle, they find a strange monument, empty cages, and deadfall traps set by a deceased Green Beret. Reaching higher ground, they find themselves staring at an alien sky and realize they are not on Earth.

After surviving an attack from a pack of quadrupedal alien beasts, Royce deduces they are on a moon used as a game preserve, where humans and other species are hunted. Cuchillo is killed, and his body is used to lure the survivors into a trap, which they avoid. The group follows the beasts' tracks to a camp and finds a captive Predator. Their hunters, three larger Predators known as "Tracker", "Berserker" and "Falconer", attack the group, killing Mombasa while the others escape. Isabelle recognizes the Predator as matching the description of a similar creature that killed a special operations team in 1987 in Guatemala, but was defeated by a single survivor.<!--Schaeffer's name is never mentioned in the film, so it should not be mentioned in this summary.-->efn|As depicted in the first film "Predator".

The group encounters Ronald Noland, a solitary U.S. Air Cavalry soldier who has survived on the moon for "ten seasons" by hiding and scavenging from the Predators and their victims. He takes the group to his hideout and explains that the Predators hunt in threes, sharpening their killing skills by abducting worthy prey from other worlds and bringing them to the planet. Noland also reveals that there is a blood feud between the Predators. Royce devises a plan to free the captive Predator, hoping it will take them home.

Having gone mad, Noland traps the others and attempts to use smoke to suffocate them, hoping to kill them for their equipment. Royce uses an explosive to attract the Predators to the hideout. Noland is killed by the "Tracker", who releases the group. In the ensuing chase, Nikolai sacrifices himself to kill the "Tracker" and save Edwin. The survivors are intercepted by the "Berserker", but Stans distracts it, allowing the others to escape before he is killed. Hanzo stays behind to duel the "Falconer" with a katana he took from Noland's stash, killing it before dying from his wounds.

Royce, Isabelle, and Edwin continue to head for the Predators' camp, hoping to enact Royce's plan, until Edwin is injured by a trap. When Isabelle refuses to abandon him, Royce leaves them both behind. They are caught by the "Berserker", who traps them in a pit and continues to the camp. Royce frees the captive Predator in exchange for transport to Earth. The Predator dons its armor and activates the ship with its wrist computer, setting a course for Earth. Royce runs to the ship as the "Berserker" arrives, eventually overpowering and decapitating the other Predator before using its own wrist computer to destroy the ship, seemingly killing Royce. Edwin paralyzes Isabelle using neurotoxic poison from a plant he found earlier and reveals he is a serial killer and his intention to stay on the planet. Royce appears and uses the poison on Edwin before booby-trapping him with grenades to use him as bait to injure the "Berserker". With Isabelle's help, Royce defeats and decapitates the "Berserker". Seeing more parachutes in the distance and surmising more Predators are arriving, the pair head into the jungle.

####Prelude to Axanar####
####Prey (2022 film)####

In 1719 in the Great Plains, Naru, a young Comanche woman trained as a healer, dreams of becoming a great hunter like her brother, Taabe. While tracking deer with her dog, Sarii, she witnesses the lights of an alien Predator's spacecraft, which she interprets as a Thunderbird, taking it as a sign to prove herself. At the village, one of their tribe's hunters has been taken by a mountain lion. Taabe says Naru can come on the search party, but only to help track the cougar and provide medical treatment if they find the hunter alive. They retrieve the wounded hunter and depart, though Taabe stays behind to find and kill the mountain lion. Finding large unusual tracks and a meticulously skinned rattlesnake, Naru circles back with Paake and finds Taabe. Together the three set a trap for the mountain lion but it kills Paake.

Naru faces off with the big cat on the branch of a tree but, after being distracted by the strange sounds and lights of the Predator in the distance, falls and strikes her head. She wakes up in her family home, having been carried back by Taabe. He later returns to the village carrying the dead mountain lion, earning him the title of War Chief. Convinced of a greater threat they've never seen before, Naru departs with Sarii. She comes across a herd of skinned bison left to rot on the plains; baffled by the wasteful slaughter, she says a prayer for their spirits. Eventually, she stumbles into a mud-filled bog pit, which nearly swallows her before she escapes. Naru and Sarii are later attacked by a grizzly bear. As they flee for their lives, the bear is killed by the Predator, giving Naru time to escape before running into a group of Comanche sent to find her. The Predator ambushes and kills the men in combat, while Naru is caught in a foothold trap; the Predator leaves as it no longer sees her as a threat.

French voyageurs, responsible for slaughtering the bison, come to check their trap, find Naru, and cage her. Their interpreter, Raphael Adolini, questions Naru about the Predator, whom the Frenchmen have encountered before. When she refuses to talk, the lead voyageur reveals that he has Taabe captive and tortures him before using both siblings as bait for the Predator. While tied to a tree, Taabe admits to his sister that she had weakened the mountain lion, enabling him to kill it. The Predator kills most of the Frenchmen while Taabe and Naru escape. Naru rescues Sarii from the camp and stumbles across a dying Raphael, who teaches her how to use his flintlock pistolefn|The engraving on the gun reveals it is the same weapon that a Predator gives to Mike Harrigan in 1997 at the end of "Predator 2" (1990). in exchange for medical treatment for his severed leg. Naru gives him herbs that reduce his body heat to stanch the bleeding. When the Predator arrives, Raphael plays dead, and Naru realizes that, due to his reduced heat, the creature cannot see him. After it accidentally steps on Raphael, he screams, and the Predator kills him.

Taabe arrives on horseback to rescue Naru. Together they weaken the Predator, but it kills Taabe. Naru flees and finds the surviving lead Frenchman. She knocks him out, severs one of his legs, and gives him an unloaded gun before eating the herbs to hide her body heat, baiting the Predator to kill the voyageur. She uses Raphael's pistol to ambush the creature, knocking off its mask, which she has previously seen to hold the targeting system for the Predator's spear gun. She steals the device and flees into the woods. Naru uses the Frenchman's severed leg to lure the Predator into the area with the mud-filled bog pit, where she has positioned the creature's mask so that it targets the pit. Without the mask, the Predator is less effective, so Naru injures it significantly before dragging it into the bog. As the Predator rises from the pit, it fires the spear gun at Naru and misses; the projectile homes in on the Predator, killing it. Naru severs its head and paints her face with its glowing green blood. She brings the head and the flintlock pistol back to her tribe. They honor her victory by declaring Naru as the new War Chief. Naru informs her tribe that it is time for them to move out.

During the end credits, the film's narrative is summarized in a series of paintings in the ledger art style. At the very end, the painting includes an image of action not depicted in the film: Naru, Saari and three other Comanche now look up to the sky and see three Predator spaceships headed down towards them.  <!--NO NOT go into detail about the end credits and Predator ships here - it is described under Production-->

####Project Shadowchaser####
####Project Shadowchaser II####
####Project Shadowchaser III####
####Project Shadowchaser IV####
####Prototype (1992 film)####
####Pterodactyl (film)####
At a pterodactyl's nest, several of the eggs hatch.
A trio of hunters, scouting the Turkish–Armenian border are suddenly attacked by a pterodactyl. While defending themselves, they become outmatched and are all killed.

Michael (Cameron Daddo), and Kate (Amy Sloan), are leading a group of teenagers for camping and through a science expedition. The students are Gwen, Jason, Willis (Steve Braun), and Angie (Mircea Monroe). They stop at a Turkish forest and begin exploring, eventually discovering a dead pterodactyl and mounds of pterodactyl feces. While the others examine the spore, Angie wanders off and decides to go for a swim. When she jumps into the water, a pterodactyl appears and attacks her. She struggles to escape, and runs into Jason, who was searching for Angie. In the confusion, he moves to the lake to investigate. Upon reaching the lake, the pterodactyl drags him away. Angie tells the others that she was attacked by something that looked like a bird, but Michael dismisses the idea. Michael and Willis desperately go searching for Jason, but unnoticed by them, he has been killed.

That night, Captain Bergen (Coolio) and his squad sneak into the Russian camp and captures the terrorist Clarke, (Todd Kramer). Captain Bergen find Michael and his group camping, so they decide to follow them.

The next morning, while preparing to leave, Michael's jeep is ambushed by a group of Russian terrorists. When the pterodactyls attack, the group flees with Captain Bergen and his squad rescuing them. In the struggle, Gwen is killed by a pterodactyl while escaping. Michael questions their presence; Bergen says that he and his squad members have been assigned to capture a Russian terrorist by hand. While the group continue on foot, Angie shows her feelings to Willis, for his bravery.

A second wave of pterodactyls suddenly appear. During the attack, Angie is wounded and succumbs to her injury. Several soldiers are also killed, and Kate is snatched in the process. After the attack, Captain Bergen and the group continue, to find a shelter. Flocks of pterodactyls start raiding the shelter, bringing it down to pieces. The group, arms and defends themselves from the invaders. With the group gaining the upper hand, the remaining invading pterodactyls retreats. Willis and one of Bergen's remaining soldiers Zelasny are injured. They are told to remain at the shelter, while the rest journey to the nest to rescue Kate.

Later, Zelasny (Jessica Ferrarone), dies from her wounds and Willis is killed by invading pterodactyls. Meanwhile, in the nest, Kate grabs a soldier's walkie-talkie and contacts Bergen. She escapes the nest and runs over the group once again. When the rescue line is set up for Kate to cross, Serling (George Calil), travers and grabs Kate to swing to Michael. Serling slips off the rope, falling to the rocks below. Bergen salutes his soldier and runs off as Serling before succumbing to his injury, detonates the bomb, in the nest, killing all of the pterodactyls. As they get off the mountain, the last pterodactyl attack in revenge. Bergen fires a missile saying, "the music's coming down and guess what I'm your DJ", but is killed. Michael keeps the missile on target and finally kills the last flying reptile. As Kate and Michael share a kiss and walk away, an "allosaurus" emerges from the volcano's crater.

####The Purge: Anarchy####

In a dystopian United States, ruled by a totalitarian government known as the New Founding Fathers of America (NFFA), the annual Purge, a 12-hour event that legalizes all crimes without authorities intervening, is credited as having saved the country's collapsing economy. While everyone across the United States prepares for the carnage, the nation's working-to-lower class populations are denounced by wealthy as living garbage only living to serve their needs. However, before the sixth annual Purge begins on March 21, 2023, a successful anti-Purge resistance group led by partners Carmelo Johns and Dante Bishop hijack government feeds to denounce the New Founding Fathers and their actions.

In Los Angeles, working-class waitress Eva Sanchez returns home to her 17-year-old daughter Cali and terminally ill father Rico, who also despise the New Founding Fathers. As Eva and Cali prepare to barricade themselves into their apartment, Rico retires to his room to be alone as the Purge starts. As the Purge alarm sounds, Rico slips out to a waiting limousine, leaving a note for his family revealing that he has sold himself as a Purge offering to a rich family in exchange for $100,000 to be paid to Eva and Cali after the Purge. Eva and Cali are distraught by this situation.

Estranged married couple Shane and Liz visit a grocery store, only to be harassed by a masked gang of bikers. As they drive away to avoid them, their car breaks down; the biker gang had cut their fuel line. Meanwhile, an off-duty Los Angeles Police Department sergeant, Leo Barnes, plots to kill Warren Grass, who had inadvertently run down and killed Barnes's son, Nicholas, while driving drunk the day before the previous year's Purge; Grass was acquitted of the crime on a legal technicality due to Nicholas having died of his injuries on Purge night. Despite pleas from his ex-wife Janice to abandon his plans, Barnes drives out into the streets with an armored car and several weapons, posing as a vigilante.

As Shane and Liz try to find a safe hiding place, the Purge commences. Eva and Cali notice NFFA paramilitary amassing in the street below, and they hear a bang, and Eva asks are they in the apartment and chided by Cali that they have not entered the building, it turns out to be intruding superintendent Diego, who's enraged by Eva and now intends to assault her. Diego is gunned down by a paramilitary platoon, which captures the women to offer them to their leader, Big Daddy, for his own personal purge. Leo passes by the scene and rescues Eva and Cali after killing the troops and wounding Big Daddy. They find Shane and Liz hiding in Leo's car. The group flees just as Big Daddy fires at them, damaging the vehicle. After Leo's car breaks down, the group flees on foot, and Eva promises Leo a new car from her co-worker, Tanya, in exchange for Leo’s protection.

As the group navigates the hostile streets, they find evidence that the anti-Purge group has been gaining the upper hand against the Purgers, discovering a paramilitary van surrounded by soldiers who were shot to death by the resistance fighters. After freeing Shane from a trap and taking guns from the abandoned truck, they head to the subways. Chaos ensues when a pyrotechnic Purging gang invades the subways and sets the tunnel ablaze. Shane is wounded, but the group manages to escape after he and Liz destroy the gang's all-terrain vehicle and its propane tank with the salvaged submachine guns, killing the entire gang.

The group returns to the streets, but as they near Tanya's apartment building, Eva unknowingly signals a traffic camera to identify them to the paramilitary troops who pick up the apartment's location. They reach Tanya's house, where Eva confesses she lied to Leo about the car, as her co-worker does not have one. Tanya's family takes them in, offering dinner and medicine. However, Tanya's sister Lorraine proceeds to murder her sister for sleeping with her husband. The group leaves the family to their fate, only to be captured by the masked gang who ambushed Shane and Liz earlier. This gang reveals that they had no intention to kill the group and are selling them off to an auction, taking them to a theater where upper-class Purgers bid on them for human hunting. After the group is forced into the arena, Leo subdues and kills a Purger, taking his weapon and night-vision glasses, using the devices to overpower and kill several other attackers, and providing their arms to Shane and the others before the head Purger calls in security to suppress the uprising. Shane is shot and killed by security forces. As Liz mourns Shane’s death, the anti-Purge group attacks the compound, killing the security forces and remaining Purgers; Liz chooses to stay with the resistance fighters to retaliate against Shane's murderers, while Leo, Eva and Cali leave. Leo carjacks the auctioneer, holding her at gunpoint and threatening her before leaving in her car.

Leo, Eva, and Cali drive up to a suburban neighborhood and stop at the home of Warren Grass at 6:55 A.M, five minutes before the end of the purge. After telling the story of his son's death, he ventures into the house despite Eva and Cali's pleas, threatening Warren and his wife. Later, Leo exits the house covered in blood, only to be shot by Big Daddy, who reveals that the New Founding Fathers have secretly dispatched death squads to increase the body count because the purge eliminates too few of the lower class, due to a majority of Purgers murdering those they have personal grudges against and not just random people, which was the NFFA's original intentions when the Purge was conceived. Just as Big Daddy is about to kill Leo, Warren appears and kills Big Daddy with a single shot from a handgun, revealing that Leo chose to forgive and spare him. As Big Daddy's death squad appears while Eva, Cali, and Warren prepare to defend themselves, sirens blare to signal the end of the purge (making Big Daddy's death legal and sparing Leo). Warren drives Eva, Cali, and Leo to the hospital as news and police helicopters fly over the city.

It is shown that it is 7:09 on the morning of March 22 and that there are 364 days until the next purge.

####Push (2009 film)####
From 1945 onwards, various countries began experimenting on people with psychic abilities, in an attempt to turn them into soldiers. Countries set up Divisions to track, categorize and experiment on psychics.

10 years in the past, two Movers, Jonah Gant and his young son Nick, are pursued by the U.S. Division. Jonah tells Nick that a woman told him that in the future, Nick must help a girl who gives him a flower. Division agent Henry Carver, a Pusher, leads a team that kills Jonah, but Nick escapes.

In the present, the U.S. Division has developed a drug that can boost psychic abilities, but all test subjects died until Pusher Kira Hudson successfully adapted to it. She steals a syringe of the drug before fleeing, unknowingly being helped in her escape by another woman in the facility. Carver orders the Division to capture Kira and retrieve the syringe.

Meanwhile, Nick has also moved to Hong Kong, a common hiding place for psychics. Nick's powers are blunted from rare usage, and he incurs debt when his powers fail to help him cheat in gambles. Division Sniffers Mack and Holden visit Nick, looking for Kira, but find no trace. Nick is visited immediately after by Cassie, a moody teenage Watcher, who also wants Nick to help find Kira. At a market, Nick and Cassie are confronted by a triad, who are also looking for Kira. The Triad Bleeders severely wound Nick, and Cassie calls in a favour from Stitch Teresa to heal Nick, who realises that Cassie is the girl that his father wanted him to help. Mack and Holden capture Kira in Hong Kong, but she escapes after influencing Mack to kill Holden. Carver dismisses Mack, but Mack insists on continuing, so Carver influences Mack to kill himself.

Nick and Cassie track down Kira with the assistance of Shifter Hook Waters and Sniffer Emily Wu. Finding Kira shocks Nick, because she is his ex-girlfriend, and no one searching for her had informed him of her identity. Kira has hidden the syringe and had Wiper Wo Chiang erase her memory of its location, protecting it from Division agents. Nick recruits Shadow Pinky Stein, to hide Kira from the Division. Nick and Kira reconcile and kiss. Nick tracks down Carver with Emily's assistance, and attempts an ambush. Carver reveals that Kira will eventually die without more of the drug, which only Carver has. Carver's right-hand man, Pusher Victor, defeats Nick. Cassie convinces Carver to spare Nick. Cassie finds a key in Kira's shoe which unlocks the locker containing the syringe.

To prevent Watchers from foreseeing his future moves, Nick creates several envelopes containing instructions for his allies, then has his own memory erased by Wo Chiang. Hook creates a temporary duplicate of the syringe, while Pinky delivers Kira to Carver as part of the plan. Teresa betrays Nick to the triad, passing Hook's duplicate syringe to them, before Nick defeats her. Carver influences Kira to believing that she was a Division agent and her relationship with Nick was a lie. Cassie is ambushed by the triad's Pop Girl, only for Wo Chiang to appear and erase Pop Girl's memory per Nick's instructions.

Nick visits Carver to trade the syringe for Kira, discovering Kira's brainwashing, and is restrained. Kira, Carver and Victor visit a construction site to retrieve the syringe, but the Triad ambushes them for it, causing a battle that kills many triad members and inadvertently frees Nick, who also joins the battle. Victor is killed by the triad leader, who is defeated by Nick. Nick seizes the syringe and Carver allows him to inject himself with it, apparently dying. After Kira and Carver leave, Cassie appears, revealing that Nick is alive as he used a syringe with a fake drug. They retrieve the real syringe and discuss using it to free Cassie's Watcher mother from the Division, whom Cassie states hatched the entire plan to take down the Division from before Cassie was born.

Later, Kira discovers her unopened envelope, which contains a photograph proving her relationship with Nick was real, with an instruction to kill Carver. Kira influences Carver to shoot himself and a gunshot is heard.

####The Quick and the Undead####
In the present, a plague breaks out causing the infected to become zombies. The action starts 80 years later, where the western United States has devolved into a series of ghost towns overrun by zombies. The government awards bounty hunters bounties in exchange for pinkies of the undead.

Ryn Baskin (Clint Glenn) is a bounty hunter. After a successful hunt, he is robbed and left for dead by a rival gang of hunters, led by Blythe Remington (Parrish Randall), who plans to spread the plague, creating a larger bounty market. Ryn survives and follows Remington with the aid of Hans Tubman (Nicola Giacobbe), a foreigner who had double crossed Ryn. This leads him to a final confrontation not just with Blythe, but with a huge zombie army.

####R.O.T.O.R.####
Scientist and police captain Dr. Barrett C. Coldyron develops a prototype police robot he dubs R.O.T.O.R. (for "Robotic Officer Tactical Operations Research/Reserve") as part of his vision for preserving peace in a chaotic future. He is pressured by his superior, the corrupt Division Commander Earl Buglar, to rush R.O.T.O.R.'s development so Senator Donald Douglas, the project's financial sponsor, can use it to campaign for President. Coldyron refuses Buglar's demands to have R.O.T.O.R. ready in sixty days and resigns rather than be fired, leaving control of the project in the hands of his incompetent assistants, Dr. Houghtaling and his robot Willard.

Following Coldyron's departure, a lab accident results in R.O.T.O.R. activating and going out on duty. While on patrol, it stops a motorist for speeding and, not yet having higher brain functions in its programming, executes him. His fiancée, Sonya, becomes R.O.T.O.R.'s target as it views her as her boyfriend's accomplice, and the robot begins a relentless pursuit of her. Coldyron learns of the murder and discovers R.O.T.O.R.'s activation, finding that it is operating under its prime directive, "to judge and execute". He saves Sonya from R.O.T.O.R. at a gas station and helps her escape, informing her that the robot will continue to pursue her and thus she must keep moving. Devising a plan to stop R.O.T.O.R.'s rampage, Coldyron contacts Dr. Corrine Steele, who developed the robot's combat chassis from a unique, self-teaching alloy, for assistance. They realize that as long as R.O.T.O.R. remains pursuing Sonya, it will not kill anyone else who does not get in its way.

On Coldyron's instruction, Sonya leads R.O.T.O.R. to a fishing camp. Coldyron and Steele arrive soon after, and Steele sacrifices herself to rip open R.O.T.O.R.'s chest, exposing its power core. Coldyron manages to lasso R.O.T.O.R.'s limbs with Primacord ropes to restrain it, and R.O.T.O.R.'s electrical discharge detonates the explosives, finally destroying the robot for good.

Coldyron files a final report on the incident and leaves the police building. However, he is ambushed outside by Buglar, who murders him to cover up the corruption and embezzlement involved in funding the project. His nephew, Brett Coldyron, subsequently inherits his research and money. Brett, deciding to continue and perfect his uncle's work, creates a new R.O.T.O.R. model, upgraded to include the higher brain functions that will make it capable of mercy and modeled in Dr. Steele's physical image.

####Raptor Island####
A team of SEALs chases a group of terrorists onto the island after destroying a weapons cache and rescuing a hostage special agent. While tracking the terrorists, mutated dinosaurs appear and the mission changes into simple survival. The dinosaurs use their skilled sense of smell and ability to swim to hunt down the SEALs and terrorists.

After losing several men to the raptors and killing some of the terrorists, the SEALs manage to rescue the female agent, Jamie, captured by the terrorists. She and the remaining SEALs discover a crash site of a Chinese airplane. Around the site are broken containers that had contained nuclear waste. The team figures the spilled waste caused the local animals to mutate into dinosaurs. The dinosaurs kill all the terrorists and SEALs except Azir, Jamie and the SEAL's leader. After encountering more mutant raptors, the last three SEALs and Jamie find refuge in a cave, which turns out to be the nest of the dinosaurs. In the end, Azir is killed by a mutated "Carnotaurus" and the island is destroyed as a result of volcanic activity. The last scene is of three raptors escaping the carnage, swimming after the rescue helicopter.

####Ratchet & Clank (film)####
####Ravagers (film)####
In the aftermath of a nuclear holocaust, animal-like creatures known as "the ravagers" roam the earth and kill all survivors.  A man named Falk (Richard Harris) witnesses his wife's murder by the creatures. Seeking vengeance, Falk becomes a vigilante.

He joins a small community, led by Rann (Ernest Borgnine), living aboard a ship anchored off shore. The ship is destroyed in an attack by the ravagers. Falk then leads his fellow survivors on a desperate quest for a place where they can live in peace.

####Ready Player One (film)####
####Real Steel####

In 2020, human boxers are replaced by robots. Former boxer Charlie Kenton owns the robot Ambush, until it is destroyed in a fight against a bull belonging to promoter and carnival owner, Ricky. Having bet money he didn't have with Ricky that Ambush would win, Charlie absconds before Ricky can collect.

After the fight, Charlie learns that his ex-girlfriend died and he must attend a hearing deciding the future of their son, Max, a robot-boxing fan with nearly no contact with Charlie since his birth. Max's maternal aunt Debra and her wealthy husband Marvin want full custody. Charlie bargains to cede custody of Max for $100,000, half in advance, and Marvin negotiates that Charlie retain custody of Max for three months while Marvin and Debra go on vacation. Settling into a gym owned by Bailey Tallet, the daughter of Charlie's former boxing coach, Charlie uses the half in advance money to acquire the once-famous World Robot Boxing robot Noisy Boy. He and Max take Noisy Boy to Crash Palace, an underworld boxing arena run by his friend Finn, where Noisy Boy is destroyed against another robot boxer, Midas. While scavenging for replacements in a junkyard, Max discovers Atom, an obsolete, dilapidated but mostly intact sparring robot designed to withstand severe damage, with a rare "shadow function" to mirror and memorize handler or opponent movements.

At Max's behest, Charlie pits Atom against another robot Metro and is surprisingly victorious. Max integrates Noisy Boy's voice command hardware with Atom and convinces Charlie to assist in streamlining Atom's movements. This results in a series of victories, culminating in Charlie being offered a World Robot Boxing fight with Atom against national champion robot Twin Cities. The fight starts with Atom on the attack, but Twin Cities easily takes the offensive. Charlie notices a hitch whenever Twin Cities throws a right punch, and he exploits this to win by knockout. Elated by their success, Max challenges undefeated global champion robot Zeus, with the audience squarely on their side. After the fight, Ricky and two henchmen attack Charlie for bailing earlier and rob him and Max of their winnings, prompting a defeated and dejected Charlie to return Max to Debra.

This upsets Max, and when Charlie tries to convince Max that it's better to live without him, Max reveals that all he wanted was for Charlie to fight for him and be there as a father. After Max leaves, Charlie returns to Tallet's Gym and talks with Bailey about the events, where the two kiss, revealing their attraction to each other. Persuaded by Bailey, Charlie reconciles with Max and convinces Debra to allow Max to witness the fight with Zeus that Charlie has arranged.

Later on, when the fight begins, Zeus knocks Atom down with its first punch and dominates the first round, but Atom manages to survive the first round, stunning the audience. Ricky, who bet $100,000 with Finn on Atom losing within the first round, tries to leave but is cornered by Finn and his fight bookmakers. As the fight continues, Atom lands multiple punches and withstands further attacks but makes no definitive progress. Late in the fourth round, Atom's voice-response controls are damaged, forcing Charlie to fight Zeus with Atom's shadow function. In the fifth and final round, Atom wards off Zeus long enough to deplete its power core, at which point Charlie directs Atom to begin its counterattack against a tired and helpless Zeus. With Zeus's programmers unable to compensate, the designer, Tak Mashido, intervenes and controls Zeus manually. Atom gives Zeus a sound beating, who barely avoids losing by knockout. Zeus wins by decision and remains undefeated, but Mashido's group are left humiliated by the near-loss and Zeus being critically damaged. Despite the match result, Atom is triumphantly labeled the "People's Champion" by the cheering crowd as Max and Charlie celebrate.

####Rebel Moon####
####Red Planet (film)####
Long plot|section|date=July 2020<!-- Word count: 1019 as of 12 July 2020 - should be 400-700 per WP:FILMPLOT -->
In 2000, pollution and overpopulation have caused an ecological crisis on Earth. As part of the first stage of terraforming, automated interplanetary missions seeded Mars with atmosphere-producing algae. The crew of Mars-1, consisting of Quinn Burchenal, Bud Chantila, Robby Gallagher, Kate Bowman, pilot Ted Santen, and Chip Pettengill, is dispatched to investigate when the oxygen produced by the algae mysteriously decreases.

A gamma-ray burst damages "Mars-1" upon arrival. Bowman remains on board for repairs, while the others land in search of an automated habitat (HAB 1) to produce food and oxygen. The team's landing craft gets damaged during re-entry and lands in the wrong place. In the aftermath, "AMEE," a military robot programmed to guide them, is lost, and Chantilas sustains a severe injury, prompting the others to abandon him. Santen refuses, but Chantilas informs them that they have limited oxygen left to make it to HAB 1, so the crew departs to allow Chantilas to pass away in peace. Bowman talks to Houston while in orbit around Mars. Houston tells her that "Mars-1" is in a decaying orbit, but there is still hope that the engines can be fixed so they can leave Mars.

The landing party discovers HAB 1 destroyed on Mars, despite the fact that the module was designed and field-tested in Tornado Alley to withstand any storms on Mars. Pettengill and Santen separate from the others to explore, eventually reaching a canyon where they argue about whether or not the mission was a success. Pettengill kills Santen by accident, then returns to Burchenal and Gallagher and informs them that Santen committed suicide. Gallagher opens his helmet, preferring death over asphyxiation, but discovers that Mars' atmosphere is thin but breathable.

The only salvageable material from the habitat is the liquid fuel, which has ruptured and pooled beneath the wreck. With no remaining power in their suits, the astronauts light it on fire with a flare so they can have a bonfire to survive the Martian night's massive temperature drop. AMEE rejoins the crew, and the three astronauts notice that the robot is damaged and attempt to shut it down in order to recover its guidance device. AMEE wounds Burchenal and pursues the others before fleeing, perceiving their actions as a threat. Gallagher informs the others that she has entered military mode and plans to kill them all one by one. She wounded Burchenal rather than killing him because she was trained in the old guerrilla tactic that a wounded man slows the enemy down.

Gallagher builds a makeshift radio from parts of the Mars Rover "Pathfinder", through which Bowman instructs them to use a Russian probe's sample-return system to launch themselves into orbit; Bowman tells Gallagher that the probe can hold only two people. The trio seeks refuge from an ice storm inside a cave. Pettengill flees with the radio, devastated by the recent news and terrified of being left behind, only to be killed by AMEE. After the storm passes, Gallagher and Burchenal recover Pettingill's radio from his body and discover that it has become infested with insect-like native Martian life (identified by Burchenal as "nematodes"). The insects are highly flammable, as evidenced by the chain reaction that occurred when a simple cutting torch was used on Pettengill's corpse to free his grip. Later, the two come across a field of algae being eaten by insects, and Burchenal figures out what happened: The Martian insects had lain dormant on their nearly dead world, but when Earth's probes spread algae fields across Mars, it provided them with a massive new food source, resulting in a population explosion. The Martian insects are responsible for the algae's demise, but in the process, they provided Mars with breathable oxygen levels because they produce oxygen as a waste product (explaining why they are so flammable). The insects were also responsible for the habitat module's destruction, as they tore in to get to the food supplies inside.

Burchenal explains to Gallagher that the biochemistry of alien insects' respiratory metabolism is capable of producing oxygen far more efficiently than human science can. Studying the insects' biochemistry is the key to terraforming Mars, and may even lead to discoveries which will allow Earth's polluted atmosphere to be repaired. However, Burchenal is attacked by swarms of the insects when blood drips from an open wound. Rather than be eaten alive, he passes his sample vial of insects to Gallagher before immolating himself and his attackers.

Gallagher arrives at the Russian probe, discovers that there is enough fuel to power the rocket's engine but not enough electrical power to launch the probe, and realizes that AMEE's power core is the only available replacement. Gallagher is able to lure AMEE into a trap and disable her using one of the probe's sample launchers in a final confrontation, then steal her battery. Gallagher launches himself in the probe's sample-return capsule and travels to orbit, where he is recovered and revived by Bowman. With a six-month return trip to Earth, the computer has plenty of time to analyze the insects, and Bowman and Gallagher have enough time to start dating.

####Reign of Fire (film)####
During construction on the London Underground, workers penetrate a cave and a huge dragon emerges from hibernation, incinerating the workers with its breath. The only survivor is a boy, Quinn Abercromby, whose mother, Karen —the project engineer—is crushed to death protecting him. The dragon flies out of the Underground, and soon more dragons appear. Years later, most militaries fail to stop the spread of the dragon population and increasingly used devastating weapons, leading to targeting the largest population areas with nuclear weapons, and by 2020, humans are nearly extinct. The dragons, now starving as well, are dying off and increasingly aggressive in search of food.

Quinn, along with his best friend Creedy leads a community of survivors at Bamburgh Castle, Northumberland where he plans to outlast dragons until they go back into hibernation; as insurance, he shares his notes and plans with Jared an orphan he rescued as a child and is mentoring to lead the community. The community is short on supplies and in a state of unrest pending the harvest of their meager crops. Eddie and his group steal a truck to pilfer the crops early, but they are attacked by a dragon. Quinn, Creedy, and Jared rescue them with old fire engines, but the dragon kills Eddie's son before escaping and burns the majority of the crops, leaving the community without food.

Shortly afterward, a group of heavily armed Americans arrive in an armored convoy with a Chieftain tank and an AgustaWestland AW109 utility helicopter led by Denton Van Zan. Initially skeptical and worried that they are marauders, Van Zan convinces Quinn by sharing the dragons' main weakness: poor vision during twilight. With Quinn's help, Van Zan and his team hunt and slay the dragon who destroyed the crops.

Van Zan introduces Quinn to Alex Jensen, his team's helicopter pilot and intelligence officer and together they brief Quinn on their mission. After killing over 200 dragons, Alex discovered that they were all female; she postulates that they reproduce quickly because the species relies on a single male to fertilize the eggs. Having tracked the spread of the dragons, they believe that the male is located in London and that if they kill it, they will effectively stop dragons from reproducing. Although Quinn suspects that the male dragon is the same one that had killed his mother, he refuses to help, knowing that London is infested with dragons and that if they fail, the dragons will track them back to their shelter.

Van Zan first recruits, then "drafts" the castle's six best defenders, despite Quinn's objections and a physical altercation. Van Zan and some of the castle's men then depart, but true to Quinn's warnings, their caravan is attacked by the male dragon. The dragon then finds the castle and kills many of the inhabitants. Quinn gets the survivors to a bunker, but they are trapped when the dragon returns; during its final attack, Creedy is killed.

Van Zan and Jensen return and free everyone trapped in the bunker. Quinn leaves Jared in charge and decides to help Van Zan and Alex hunt down the male dragon. They fly to London and find hundreds of small dragons, one of which is cannibalized by the larger male. This scatters the smaller dragons and leaves the male undefended. Van Zan coordinates a simplified plan: split up, bait the male into attacking, ground him with explosives, and then have another member shoot explosives into his mouth once he is ground level. The plan initially works, but the dragon detonates the initial explosives early and Van Zan is devoured. Quinn and Alex gather the last explosives and together, they lure the dragon to ground level, where Quinn fires an explosive down the dragon's throat, killing it.

Three months later, Quinn and Alex erect a radio tower on a hill overlooking the North Sea with no dragon sighting. Jared arrives to say they have contacted a group of French survivors who want to speak to their leader. Quinn officially makes Jared the community leader and dedicates himself to rebuilding civilization with Alex.

####Replicant (film)####
Edward "the Torch" Garrotte (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is a serial killer who has a penchant for killing women and setting them on fire. All of his victims are also mothers. Detective Jake Riley (Michael Rooker) is a Seattle police detective who has spent three years chasing Garrotte. Just days before Jake's retirement Garrotte strikes again, but Jake is off the case. During his retirement party, Jake receives a call from Garrotte, who threatens to go after his friends and family. Realizing Garrotte needs to be stopped no matter what, Riley sets out to stop him.

A secret government agency hires Jake as a consultant on a special project. They have cloned Garrotte from DNA evidence found at a crime scene. They need Jake's help to train this Replicant, who has genetic memories from Garrotte and a telepathic link to him. The Replicant has the body of a 40-year-old but the mind of a child. Jake's job is to help the Replicant track Garrotte down by using the memories stored in Garrotte's DNA.

The Replicant and Jake begin to hunt Garrotte. Jake believes the Replicant could turn on him at any time, as Garrotte's killer instinct may take over. The Replicant tries to understand the world, and his connection with Garrotte. The Replicant does not understand why Jake treats him so roughly, since he views Jake as family. Though Jake is abusive, the Replicant looks to him for protection and guidance as they close in on Garrotte. Garrotte and the Replicant confront each other in a bar after Garrotte fails to kill Jake with a bomb. Garrotte kills a bartender, but lets the Replicant live. An origin story shows that Garrotte was abused by his mother, who then killed her unfaithful husband, and tried to burn their house down, which reveals why Garrotte hates women.

They confront each other later in a parking garage. Garrotte tries to convince his "brother" that Jake cannot be trusted. Frustrated that Garrotte got away, Jake asks why the Replicant let him go. The Replicant replies, "We are the same." Jake tries to tell the Replicant that Garrotte is a sociopath, but he refuses to listen. They find out Garrotte's real name, Luc Savard, and go to the hospital to talk with Savard's mother (Margaret Ryan), but she had already died of a heart attack. Garrotte arrives and beats Jake and also wants his "brother" to join him by killing Jake, but he refuses, forcing Garrotte to try and execute both of them. Jake and the killer fight, leading to an ambulance chase in the parking garage. The van crashes into a toll booth, but the killer escapes. He hits Jake with a shovel and plans to burn him alive.

The Replicant and killer fight again in the hospital's furnace room. The Replicant wants to kill Garrotte, but realizes that he is not a killer like him. Garrotte hits the Replicant with a shovel, which causes Jake to shoot him. The Replicant suddenly understands that Jake is his real family. An air conditioner, damaged in the fight, explodes, supposedly killing the Replicant after he gets Jake to safety. Upset by the death of his new "partner", Jake decides to retire from his new job as a consultant.

Weeks later, Jake is with his wife Anne (Catherine Dent) and stepson Danny (Brandon James Olson). Jake spots a man in a raincoat putting a package in their mailbox. However, Jake realizes the Replicant is alive when he finds the package contains a music box as a gift for Jake's help. The Replicant is dating HookerNeeds verification|date=November 2019 (Marnie Alton) as the film ends.

####Repo Men####
In 2025, advancements in medical technology have perfected bio-mechanical organs. A corporation known as The Union sells these expensive "artiforgs" on credit, and when customers are unable or unwilling to pay for their artiforgs The Union sends "repo men" to locate and forcibly repossess the organ - invariably resulting in the death of the owner.

Remy (Jude Law) and his partner, Jake Freivald (Forest Whitaker), are considered the best of the Union's repo men. However, Remy's wife Carol disapproves of his work, believing that it is a bad influence for their son Peter. At a family barbecue, Remy allows Jake to discreetly perform a repossession nearby, but is caught by Carol who leaves with Peter in anger.
While patrolling with Jake, the duo discovers a "nest", a refuge for Union customers who have defaulted on payments for their artiforgs and are attempting to escape the country. Remy and Jake raid the nest by themselves, impressing their boss, Frank. He offers them the opportunity to become full-time raid captains. Remy declines and attempts to ask Frank to transfer to sales, but Jake cuts him off. Jake tells Remy that what they do is important, but Remy's mind is made up. Jake suggests that Remy's last job be a musician that Remy is a fan of. After helping the musician finish one last song, he uses a defibrillator in order to stop the artificial heart, but the device malfunctions, and Remy is severely injured, requiring replacement of his heart with an artiforg.

Carol divorces Remy for taking another job, so he moves in with Jake.  As he tries to go back to work, he realizes he's developed sympathy for the customers, unable to lie when he tries sales, but also unable to kill when repossessing their artiforgs. He's soon unable to make the payments on his heart and is in debt.  Jake discovers that Remy has not been repossessing and takes him to a "nest" with enough artiforgs to clear his debt; however, Remy cannot do the job. Furious, Jake demands he stay there until he gets over his inhibition. A stunned debtor wakes up and knocks Remy out.

Waking up, Remy encounters Beth, a singer he would see while drinking in a bar with Jake. He takes her to a motel room and discovers she has numerous artiforgs. Breaking into the office, Remy attempts to clear Beth's and his own accounts, but he is interrupted by Jake, who lets him leave. On the run, Beth and Remy leave for the abandoned outskirts of the city. Beth tells Remy of how she contracted various diseases and was involved in a car crash, and was forced to resort to buying artiforgs on the black market after running up severe debts. They begin a relationship, and Remy decides to document his life as a repo man with an old typewriter Beth found. As he works on a manuscript, he is interrupted by a repo man. Remy sets a trap and the collector drops through a hole in the floor. Beth falls through the same hole, damaging her prosthetic knee. Before the collector can shoot Beth, Remy manages to kill him.

Remy sneaks into his former workplace to obtain scanning jammers he had confiscated during his raid on the nest. He attempts to force Frank to clear his account, only to discover that accounts can now only be cleared at the Union's central office due to his earlier attempt. Remy and Beth attempt to flee the country at the airport, but security is alerted by bleeding from Beth's knee. A fight with airport security ensues. Jake arrives, but is on the other side of a security panel and watches their escape. They go to a black market doctor to replace Beth's knee.

After the procedure, they are stopped by Jake who tries to convince Remy to rejoin him as a repo man. Remy refuses, and Jake reveals he rigged the defibrillator unit that caused his heart to fail, so Remy would continue to work with him. They fight, and Jake knocks Remy unconscious. Beth awakens Remy, saying she stunned Jake as an organ repossession raid is underway. They flee to an underground residence where Remy is subdued by a freedom fighter (Yvette Nicole Brown). Later Remy decides to delete the accounts of all implant clients. Remy meets Carol and Peter on a train one last time, passing on his manuscript to Peter.

Remy and Beth break into Union headquarters and are forced to fight their way through the facility to the Union's database. Using Beth's prosthetic eye, they enter and seal themselves inside as Jake and Frank arrive. The server's only interface is an organ scanner, requiring Remy and Beth to cut themselves open to use the scanner internally on each of their artiforgs, clearing their accounts. Frank and Jake enter the server room using an artiforg from one of the slain repo men, finding Beth near death and Remy attempting to scan her heart. Jake is ordered to kill Remy, but he instead kills Frank and helps revive Beth. Jake tosses two grenades into the artiforg drawer of the server, with the explosion destroying the mainframe, wiping the records of everyone who has an account with the Union.

Later, Remy is seen on a tropical beach, enjoying his freedom with Beth and Jake. His text has been published as a book, "The Repossession Mambo". While Remy talks to Jake, he notices that Jake suddenly disappears, leaving Remy's book on his chair; then Remy sees the beach flicker with static before returning to normal. It is revealed that Remy is in a coma, having sustained severe brain damage when Jake knocked him unconscious. Jake has paid off Remy's debt for his heart and also paid to link his brain to a neural network, allowing him to live out his life peacefully in a computer generated dream world. Beth is unconscious, and Jake says he will take care of her; he then says a sorrowful goodbye to Remy. The film ends with Frank delivering a sales pitch for the neural network.

####Resident Evil: Apocalypse####


In the previous film, former security operative Alice and environmental activist Matt Addison fought to escape an underground genetic research facility called the Hive, the source of a zombie outbreak. The pair were part of an attempt to expose illegal experiments being performed there by the pharmaceutical company Umbrella Corporation. The film ended as Alice and Addison were taken into custody by Umbrella and separated.

Umbrella sends a team to the Hive to investigate what happened there; the team is overrun by zombies who quickly spread to the nearby Raccoon City. Umbrella reacts by quarantining the city and evacuating vital personnel from it. Angela Ashford, the daughter of Umbrella researcher Dr. Charles Ashford, goes missing after her security car is involved in a collision while being extracted from the city. Meanwhile, disgraced Raccoon City Police Department Special Tactics And Rescue Squad (STARS) operative Jill Valentine returns to her former precinct to encourage her fellow officers to evacuate Raccoon City. Alice awakens in a deserted hospital and wanders the city in search of supplies, while Umbrella uses the only bridge out of the area to evacuate civilians. At the bridge, Valentine meets with her former partner, Sgt. Payton Wells. A civilian turns into a zombie, biting and infecting Wells. In response to the virus reaching the bridge, Major Timothy Cain, leader of the Umbrella forces in Raccoon City, seals the exit and forces the residents to return to the city.

After being abandoned by their employer following a failed attempt to rescue a civilian, Umbrella soldiers Carlos Olivera and Nicholai Ginovaef team up with the surviving STARS operatives to repel zombie attacks. Their position is overrun, and Olivera is bitten and infected. At a separate location, Valentine, Wells, and news reporter, Terri Morales, are about to be overrun, though they are saved by Alice. Umbrella deploys a heavily mutated experimental supersoldier, Nemesis, who kills the remaining STARS members before searching for Alice. Dr. Ashford hacks into the city's CCTV system and uses it to contact Alice and the other survivors, offering to arrange their evacuation from the city in exchange for help in locating his daughter. He makes an identical offer to Olivera and Ginovaef and explains that Umbrella intends to rid Raccoon City of the zombie infection by destroying it using a nuclear bomb.

On their way to Angela's location, Alice and the others are ambushed by Nemesis. Valentine kills Wells after he turns into a zombie. Alice engages Nemesis but is wounded and forced to retreat separately, luring Nemesis away from the rest of the group. Valentine and Morales continue, picking up stranded civilian L.J. en route. Valentine meets Olivera, and they find and rescue Angela, although Morales and Ginovaef are both killed. Angela reveals that the zombie outbreak is the result of a virus created by her father to treat the genetic disease from which she suffers: only by regularly injecting herself with the virus is Angela able to survive, though she must also take anti-virus serum to prevent turning into a zombie. Alice uses some of the anti-virus to cure Olivera. Dr. Ashford gives Alice the location of an extraction point where a helicopter awaits. The group makes it to the rendezvous point, but are ambushed by Umbrella forces. Major Cain kills Dr. Ashford and forces Alice, whom he reveals was augmented by the T-virus, to fight Nemesis. Alice gains the upper hand over the supersoldier, though she ceases fighting after realizing that he is Matt Addison, mutated by Umbrella's experiments.

Nemesis turns on Major Cain and attacks the Umbrella troops, but is killed protecting Alice. The rest of the survivors seize the helicopter; they eject Major Cain from it, and he gets killed by the zombies, including a zombified Dr. Ashford. As the survivors escape, the nuclear bomb detonates over the city, and the resulting blast wave causes the helicopter to crash. Alice sacrifices herself to save Angela and is impaled on a metal pole. T.V. footage attributes the nuclear attack to a meltdown of the city's nuclear power plant, covering up Umbrella's involvement. Alice wakes up in an Umbrella research facility and escapes with help from Olivera, Valentine, L.J., and Angela. As they are escaping, Dr. Alexander Isaacs, a top-ranking Umbrella employee, reveals that Alice's escape is part of Umbrella's plan for her.

####Resident Evil: Extinction####
A cloned Alice wakes up in a mansion, wanders through its halls, and is forced to escape several security traps, mirroring some events of the first film. During her escape, Alice makes use of new telekinetic powers, killing a security guard. However, she is eventually killed by a bounding mine hidden in the floor. Her body is dumped into a pit filled with dozens of other Alice clones, representing the failed results of the Umbrella Corporation's ongoing Project Alice.

Following Umbrella's attempts to cover up the contamination of Raccoon City, the T-virus spreads around the world, devastating not only the human population, but the entire global environment in the next five years. The real Alice wanders the wasteland that was once the Southwestern U.S., and after fighting off a family of marauders, discovers information in an abandoned notebook referring to an uninfected area in Alaska. Alice realizes that she, like her clones, has developed telekinesis.

Simultaneously, a convoy of survivors led by Claire Redfield and Raccoon City survivors Carlos Oliveira and L.J. Wade travels across the country in search of supplies and safe harbor. While searching a motel, L.J. is bitten by a zombie. Fearing the harsh fate that awaits him, he chooses not to tell the other survivors about the injury. The next morning, the convoy is attacked by a murderous flock of infected crows. With the team nearly overwhelmed, Alice appears and defeats the remaining crows with her newfound telekinesis, though falling unconscious. Awaking shortly thereafter, Alice is introduced to Claire and tells her about the notebook, convincing her to take the convoy to Alaska.

Isaacs' attempts to domesticate the infected lead to the creation of a new zombie breed. Wesker's security officer, Captain Alexander Slater, reports on Isaacs' disregard for Umbrella regulations. Wesker tasks Slater with watching Isaacs, telling him to kill the scientist if he disobeys orders again. Tracing an energy pattern sent out by Alice's telekinesis, Umbrella triangulates her location. Desperate to reclaim Alice for the sake of achieving his goals, Dr. Isaacs sends his new zombies to ambush the convoy against Wesker's specific orders. During the attack, most of the convoy is killed, and L.J. succumbs to his infection, biting Carlos. Umbrella tries to shut Alice down remotely, but she breaks free from Umbrella's programming and continues to fight. She finds Isaacs at the scene, and he is bitten as he flees via helicopter. Alice and K-Mart use Isaacs' computer to track the helicopter's flight path, leading them to Umbrella's underground facility.

Approaching the scene, Alice meets a holograph of the Red Queen's "sister" AI, the White Queen. She informs Alice that her blood can cure the T-virus, defends the Red Queen's prior actions, and reveals what happened to Dr. Isaacs. On her way to the lab's lower levels, Alice encounters one of her clones, which awakens but appears to die from shock soon after. Alice discovers Isaacs/Tyrant, defeating him after leading him to the replica of The Hive's laser corridor featured in the film's opening. Just as Alice is about to meet the same fate, the system is deactivated by the clone, who is still alive.

Later in Tokyo, Wesker informs his fellow Umbrella executives that the North American facility has been lost. Alice appears during the meeting, declaring that she and her "friends" (the other clones) are coming for him.

####Resident Evil: Retribution####
Alice and the riders on the Umbrella Corporation freighter "Arcadia" are attacked by a fleet of tiltrotors led by Alice's brainwashed former ally, Jill Valentine. Alice is captured during the attack while the fates of Chris Redfield, Claire Redfield, and K-Mart are left ambiguous. An Alice clone awakens in the suburbs, living with her husband, Todd, and their deaf daughter, Becky. Zombies attack, revealing the suburbia as Raccoon City during the contamination incident. Alice and Becky drive away from the undead with the help of Rain Ocampo; as they escape, they are hit by a truck, knocking Rain unconscious. Alice hides Becky inside another house but is killed by a zombified Todd. Meanwhile, the captured Alice awakens in an underwater facility and is interrogated by Jill. During a power failure, Alice escapes her cell, rearms, and finds herself in a simulation of Shibuya Square, Tokyo. Fighting her way against zombies, she enters a control room filled with dead Umbrella employees and encounters Ada Wong, one of Albert Wesker's top agents.

Wesker appears on a screen, explaining that both no longer serve Umbrella, and the power outage was staged by him. Wesker also reveals that the Red Queen, one of Alice's arch-enemies, was reactivated after the Hive incident and now controls Umbrella. He continues that the facility is underwater, formerly a Soviet naval outpost in Kamchatka, Russia, designed by Umbrella for manufacturing clones and creating simulated outbreaks to show the effect of the T-virus. Ada and Alice aim to rendezvous with a rescue crew organized by Wesker, which includes Leon S. Kennedy, Barry Burton, and Luther West, Alice's former ally. Leon's team plants explosives near the entrance of the facility, which will detonate in two hours to ensure its destruction. The group plans to meet with Alice and Ada in the Raccoon City suburbia area. In a New York City simulation, Alice and Ada defeat two Executioners; Leon's team enters a Moscow simulation but is surrounded by a heavily armed Las Plagas undead horde.

In the suburban setting, Alice and Ada encounter Becky, who mistakes Alice for her clone mother, and is instantly attached to her. They also find Jill and the clones of Alice's deceased allies: James "One" Shade, "evil" Rain Ocampo, and Carlos Oliveira, who are sent to capture them. During a shootout, Ada gives Alice her smart glasses and grappling hook so that she and Becky can find their way out, before Ada is separated. The two encounter the "good" clone of Rain in the Moscow simulation. Alice gives her a weapon to help keep Becky safe. She then rescues Leon's surviving crew from the barrage of Las Plagas zombies and a giant Licker. Once united, the group reaches the submarine pens in the facility exit, but are ambushed by Jill's team. During the ensuing fight, Becky is captured by the Licker, and "good" Rain is killed. Alice rescues Becky and kills the Licker. Barry sacrifices himself holding the Umbrella operatives off long enough to ensure the others' escape. The explosives at the entrance go off: Leon and Luther escape rapid flooding, while Alice and Becky survive through the ventilation system.

On the surface, their snowmobile is knocked over by Jill's submarine. Jill and "evil" Rain confront the group, holding Ada as a hostage. During the ensuing fight, Alice is able to tear the mind-controlling scarab off Jill's chest, returning her to normal. Meanwhile Rain—now enhanced with superhuman strength and healing, thanks to the Las Plagas parasite—joins the fight, kills Luther, and knocks out Leon. Realizing she is too powerful to fight, Alice shoots the ice under Rain, who is dragged underwater by swimming zombies from the undersea installation. Alice, Jill, and the remaining survivors travel to Wesker's headquarters, a heavily barricaded and fortified White House, staffed by the remainders of the U.S. Armed Forces. Alice meets Wesker in the Oval Office, where he injects her with another strand of the T-virus, returning her superhuman abilities. On the roof, he explains that the Red Queen is trying to wipe out humanity, and all of the remaining uninfected humans are in the base. The U.S. Military and remaining Umbrella Corp. soldiers start defending the White House against enormous hordes of T-virus abominations.

####Resident Evil: The Final Chapter####
####Resident Evil: Welcome to Raccoon City####
####Retroactive (film)####
####Retrograde (2004 film)####

When a deadly microorganism threatens to wipe out the entire human race, the only hope for the future of mankind is to send a special team of soldiers back in time to prevent the virus from ever coming into existence. The year is 2204. Humankind is under attack from a fast-spreading super-bug that now threatens to destroy the very fabric of human civilization. The only hope lies with Captain John Foster (Dolph Lundgren) and his elite squad of genetically resistant soldiers. Captain Foster's mission: travel back into the past, and ensure that the first infection never happens. Now, as Captain Foster's team races to save the world, they realize that their actions in the present could yield dire consequences for the future.

####The Return of Swamp Thing####
After her mother's mysterious death, Abigail Arcane travels to the Florida swamps to confront her evil stepfather Dr. Anton Arcane, who had been resurrected after his death in the first film. In an attempt to stave off the effects of aging, Dr. Arcane, assisted by Dr. Lana Zurrell, combines genes from various swamp animals and human beings, creating an army of monsters known as Un-Men. Dr. Arcane tries to use his stepdaughter Abby in his genetic experiments until she is rescued by Swamp Thing, a scientist previously transformed into a bog creature after a confrontation with the evil doctor.

####Return to Frogtown####

Set some years after the events of the first movie,  Captain Delano (Charles Napier) sends Sam Hell to infiltrate Frog Town again to rescue Texas Rocket Ranger John Jones (played by Lou Ferrigno) who crash landed. In what may be a direct reference to his "Incredible Hulk" fame, Jones is an unwilling test subject who is modified and turned into a frog-person, giving him superhuman strength. The tests are conducted by Professor Tanzer (Brion James)  and Nurse Cloris (Linda Singer

This is part of a larger plot by the Evil Star Frogmeister to turn all humans into frogmen. Hell must journey to the Frogtown Mutant Reservation in a desperate attempt to stop the planned mutation

####Revenge Quest####
####Riddick (film)####
Five years after Kyra's death, Riddick has become uneasy in his role as Lord Marshal of the Necromonger fleet. His refusal to swear into the Necromonger faith has caused dissent among his subjects. After the latest attempt on his life, Riddick strikes a deal with Commander Vaako: the location of Furya and a ship to take him there, in exchange for Vaako succeeding him as the next Lord Marshal, so that he can achieve transcendence. Led by Vaako's aide, Krone, Riddick and a group of Necromongers arrive on a desolate planet. Realizing that it is not Furya, Riddick kills most of his escort when they attempt to assassinate him; Krone causes a landslide and buries Riddick alive.

Riddick emerges from the rubble with a broken leg, which he sets and splints while fending off native predators: vulture-like flying animals, packs of jackal-like beasts and giant venomous scorpion-like water-dwelling Mud Demons. Needing time to heal, Riddick hides himself within some abandoned ruins. After he's fully healed, Riddick notices a vast savanna beyond some rocky cliffs, but the only passage through is impeded by several muddy pools infested with Mud Demons. He begins injecting himself with Mud Demon venom to build an immunity and constructs improvised melee weapons, as well as raising and training an orphaned jackal-beast pup. He kills the Mud Demons and reaches the savanna. After finding a dormant mercenary station, Riddick notices a series of approaching storms, and concludes they will unleash an unidentified threat. Riddick activates an emergency beacon at the station, which broadcasts his identity to mercenary groups within the area.

Two ships arrive in answer to the beacon, the first led by violent and unstable Santana, with second-in-command Diaz, preacher Luna and hunters Falco, Rubio, Vargas and Nuñez. The second, a team of professional mercenaries: leader Colonel R. "Boss" Johns, second-in-command and marksman Dahl, tracker Lockspur and gunner Moss. Riddick leaves them a message promising they will all die unless they leave one of their ships and depart the planet on the other. Rubio, Nuñez and Falco are killed by Riddick during the first night, forcing a reluctant Santana to cooperate with Johns's team. Riddick later steals power nodes from each of the teams' ships and approaches Johns and Santana to strike a deal for their return. However, the conversation turns into an ambush as Dahl shoots Riddick with several rounds of horse tranquilizer, and Riddick's jackal-beast is shot and killed by Santana.

At the station, Johns interrogates Riddick about the fate of his son, William. When the storms reach the station, Riddick's threat is revealed as thousands of Mud Demons emerge from hibernation underground, awakened by the rainwater, and besiege the station, killing Lockspur and Moss. Johns agrees to release Riddick to locate the hidden power cells, but Santana attempts to kill Riddick because he is worth more dead than alive, and because Riddick promised to kill Santana if set free. Riddick, with one leg free, beheads Santana with his own machete. The group then releases Riddick on the condition he retrieve the nodes and each party gets a ship.

They fight their way to the ships, and Vargas is killed by a Mud Demon. Johns, Diaz and Riddick leave the ship together on the hoverbikes to retrieve the power nodes. During their journey, Diaz crashes Johns's bike over an embankment; Johns is then picked up by Riddick. After they reach the power nodes, Riddick reveals Johns's son's morphine addiction and attempt to use a child as bait. Diaz attacks Riddick and Johns but Riddick fights and kills him; as Diaz dies he shoots and disables the last hoverbike.

Riddick and Johns fend off an endless horde of Mud Demons while running back to the station. Riddick is severely wounded and Johns takes both nodes and abandons him. Riddick begins to fight the advancing Demons and climbs a rock spire; when it seems he is about to be killed, Johns arrives in a repowered ship and shoots the creatures while Dahl descends to rescue Riddick. Given the other ship, Riddick praises Johns for being a better man than his son and departs into deep space.

####Rise of the Planet of the Apes####

In San Francisco, pharmaceutical chemist William Rodman is testing the viral-based drug ALZ-112 on chimpanzees at the biotech company Gen-Sys to find a cure for Alzheimer's disease. ALZ-112 is given to a chimpanzee named Bright Eyes, greatly increasing her intelligence. However, during Will's presentation for the drug, Bright Eyes is forced from her cage, goes on a rampage, and is shot to death. Will's boss Steven Jacobs terminates the project and has the chimpanzees euthanized. However, Will's assistant Robert Franklin reveals that the reason for Bright Eyes' rampage was that she had recently given birth to an infant chimpanzee. Will reluctantly takes in the chimpanzee, eventually giving him the name Caesar. Discovering that Caesar has inherited his mother's intelligence through being exposed to ALZ-112 before birth, Will decides to raise him. Three years pass, Caesar becomes highly intelligent and can play games, draw pictures, and communicate with Will through sign language. Will introduces Caesar to the redwood forest at Muir Woods National Monument so he can roam. Meanwhile, Will treats his father, Charles, with ALZ-112, which seems to restore his cognitive ability.

Five years later, Caesar, now a young adolescent, questions if he is a pet and learns of his origins from Will. Meanwhile, Charles' condition returns as his immune system becomes resistant to ALZ-112. Caesar injures an aggressive neighbor, Douglas Hunsiker, while defending a confused Charles. As a result, animal control arrives and takes him away to an ape shelter. Due to his difference in appearance and relative lack of interaction with other apes, Caesar is tormented by the alpha chimpanzee, Rocket, and the chief guard, Dodge Landon. However, Caesar also befriends Maurice, a former circus orangutan who also knows sign language. Caesar learns how to unlock his cage, gaining free access to the common area. With the assistance of Buck, a gorilla, he confronts Rocket and claims the position of the alpha chimpanzee. Meanwhile, Jacobs clears the development of a more powerful gaseous version of the drug, the ALZ-113, when Will tells him it can improve intelligence. Will takes the drug home for his father, but Charles declines further treatment and dies overnight. After attempting to test the drug on a scarred bonobo test subject named Koba, Franklin becomes exposed to ALZ-113 and becomes ill.

Attempting to warn Will at his home, he sneezes blood onto Hunsiker and is later discovered dead. Will attempts to reclaim Caesar, but Caesar instead decides to stay and steals the ALZ-113 canisters from Will's house and enhances the intelligence of the other apes in the sanctuary. When Dodge attempts to get him back into his cage, Caesar speaks for the first time, shouting "no" and fights with Dodge while freeing the apes, which inadvertently leads to Dodge's death. The apes flee the facility, releasing Koba and the remaining apes from Gen-Sys, and freeing more apes from the San Francisco Zoo. A battle ensues as the apes fight their way past a police blockade on the Golden Gate Bridge in an attempt to escape into the redwood forest. To rescue Caesar, Buck sacrifices himself to wreck a police helicopter in which Jacobs is riding. Koba then pushes Jacobs into the Golden Gate strait to his death.

As the apes find their way into the forest, Will catches up to them in a stolen police car and warns Caesar that the humans will hunt them down, begging him to return home. In response, Caesar hugs him and says, "Caesar is home". Realizing that this is their last goodbye, Will respects Caesar's wishes. The apes embrace their new lifestyle in the forest as news and police helicopters fly over San Francisco. Meanwhile, Hunsiker, now infected with ALZ-113, arrives at San Francisco International Airport for his flight to Paris. He eventually spreads the virus around the globe to international flight routes, leading to a deadly pandemic.

####RoboCop####

In a near-future dystopia, Detroit is on the brink of societal and financial collapse. Overwhelmed by crime and dwindling resources, the city grants the mega-corporation Omni Consumer Products (OCP) control over the Detroit Police Department. OCP Senior President Dick Jones demonstrates ED-209, a law enforcement droid designed to supplant the police. ED-209 malfunctions and brutally kills an executive, allowing ambitious junior executive Bob Morton to introduce the Chairman ("The Old Man") to his own project: RoboCop. Meanwhile, officer Alex Murphy is transferred to the Metro West precinct. Murphy and his new partner, Anne Lewis, pursue notorious criminal Clarence Boddicker and his gang—Emil Antonowsky, Leon Nash, Joe Cox and Steve Minh. The gang ambushes and tortures Murphy until Boddicker fatally shoots him. Morton has Murphy's corpse converted into RoboCop, a powerful and heavily armored cyborg with no memory of his former life. RoboCop is programmed with three prime directives: serve the public trust, protect the innocent, and uphold the law. A fourth prime directive, Directive 4, is classified.

RoboCop is assigned to Metro West and hailed by the media for his brutally efficient campaign against crime. Lewis suspects he is Murphy, recognizing the unique way he holsters his gun, a trick Murphy learned to impress his son. During maintenance, RoboCop experiences a nightmare of Murphy's death. He leaves the station and encounters Lewis, who addresses him as Murphy. While on patrol, RoboCop arrests Emil, who recognizes Murphy's mannerisms, furthering RoboCop's recall. RoboCop then uses the police database to identify Emil's associates and review Murphy's police record. RoboCop recalls further memories while exploring Murphy's former home, his wife and son having moved away following his death. Elsewhere, Jones gets Boddicker to murder Morton, in revenge for Morton's attempt to usurp his position at OCP. RoboCop tracks down the Boddicker gang and a shootout occurs. He brutally assaults Boddicker, who confesses to working for Jones. RoboCop attempts to kill Boddicker until his programming directs him to uphold the law. He attempts to arrest Jones at OCP Tower, but Directive 4 is activated—a failsafe measure to neutralize RoboCop when acting against an OCP executive. Jones admits his culpability in Morton's death and releases an ED-209 to destroy RoboCop. Although he escapes, RoboCop is assaulted by the police force on OCP's order and is badly damaged. Lewis helps RoboCop escape to an abandoned steel mill to repair himself.

Angered by OCP's underfunding and short-staffing, the police force goes on strike, and Detroit descends into chaos as riots break out throughout the city. Jones frees Boddicker and his remaining gang, arming them with high-powered weaponry to destroy RoboCop. At the steel mill, Boddicker's men are quickly eliminated, but Lewis is badly injured and RoboCop becomes trapped under steel girders. Even so, he kills Boddicker by stabbing him in the throat with his data spike. RoboCop confronts Jones at OCP Tower during a board meeting, revealing the truth behind Morton's murder. Jones, in order to escape, takes the Old Man hostage but is promptly fired from OCP, nullifying Directive 4 and allowing RoboCop to shoot him, causing Jones to crash through a window to his death. The Old Man compliments RoboCop's shooting and asks his name; RoboCop replies, "Murphy".

####RoboCop (2014 film)####

In 2028, multinational conglomerate OmniCorp revolutionizes warfare by introducing robotic peacekeepers capable of maintaining law and order. Led by CEO Raymond Sellars, the company moves to market its technology to domestic law enforcement. However, the passage of the Dreyfus Act, forbidding deployment of militarized drones in the United States, prevents this. Aware that most Americans oppose the use of military systems in their communities, Sellars asks Dr. Dennett Norton and his research team to come up with an alternative. The result is a proposal for a cyborg police officer. However, Norton informs Sellars that only someone stable enough to handle being a cyborg can be turned into one, and some candidates are rejected.

A Detroit police detective, Alex Murphy, is chosen after he is critically injured in a car bomb explosion arranged by crime boss Antoine Vallon as revenge for Murphy's investigation into his activities. Norton persuades Murphy's wife, Clara, to sign off on the procedure. Upon waking up and realizing the extent of his transformation, a frustrated Murphy escapes, but Norton shuts him down and brings him back to the lab. As Norton reveals to Murphy that the only remnants of his human body are most of his head (excluding parts of the brain), respiratory organs, heart, and right hand, a disgusted Murphy asks for euthanasia. Norton reminds Murphy about his wife's and son's patience, convincing him to live. During combat training with trainer Rick Mattox, Murphy proves unable to compete with the standard OmniCorp drones efficiently. Norton alters Murphy's programming to make him more efficient by letting drone programming take over his actions, making Murphy think they are his. This re-programming increases Murphy's efficiency dramatically, but leaves him less empathetic, due to his human nature being bypassed. That night, Murphy goes to his house to meet Clara and his son David to make sure they are okay, comforting David.

Shortly before he is publicly unveiled, the entire police database is uploaded to RoboCop's system, including the Alex Murphy crime scene, leading Murphy to have an emotional breakdown, forcing Norton to suppress his emotions. During the ceremony, RoboCop identifies and apprehends a criminal in the crowd. He goes on to reduce crime in Detroit dramatically, simultaneously increasing public support for repealing the Dreyfus Act. Aware that Clara has begun to ask questions, Sellars orders Norton to keep her away from her husband.

Clara nevertheless manages to confront RoboCop, telling him of their son David's nightmares, social withdrawal, and unresponsive behavior. The experience drives Murphy to override his programming and access the previously sealed files on his attempted murder. From them, he learns his son had PTSD after witnessing the explosion. Murphy pursues Vallon's gang to exact revenge. He takes heavy damage from their armor-piercing weapons but manages to kill Vallon and his men. Murphy returns to the station and joins with his old partner, Jack Lewis. They confront the two corrupt police officers who betrayed him to Vallon, shooting one and tasing the other. Learning that the Chief of Police was also involved, Murphy moves to arrest her but is remotely shut down by Mattox.

With the help of pro-OmniCorp talk show host Pat Novak, Sellars uses the incident to get the Dreyfus Act repealed. Clara goes to the press and fiercely demands to see her husband. Fearful of being exposed, Sellars orders Mattox to destroy RoboCop while being repaired and tricks Clara into thinking that Murphy died. Norton reaches him first and reveals the truth. RoboCop narrowly escapes from the building just as it undergoes a lockdown.

Murphy returns and storms the building, fighting his way through the ED-209 drones sent to stop him, while Lewis and his fellow police arrive to hold off the rest of OmniCorp's forces. Mattox subdues Murphy, preparing to finish him off, but is killed by Lewis. Murphy then makes his way to the roof where Sellars is waiting for a helicopter with Clara and David as hostages. Murphy's programming initially prevents him from arresting Sellars. However, he overcomes his programming long enough to kill Sellars when Sellars overconfidently taunts him.

OmniCorp's parent company, OCP, shuts down the project. The President vetoes the repeal of the Dreyfus Act based on Norton's testimony, much to Novak's anger. Murphy's body is rebuilt in Norton's laboratory, and he waits for Clara and David, who are coming to visit him.

####RoboCop 2####
In a near dystopian future, Detroit is close to bankruptcy after failing to pay off its debts to conglomerate Omni Consumer Products (OCP). The OCP chairman intends to have the city default on its debt, then foreclose on all public property, effectively taking over its government and allowing for OCP's on-going, radical urban-redevelopment plan (as established in the first film). To rally public opinion behind the project, OCP deliberately sparks an increase in street crime by terminating the privatized Detroit Police Department's pension plans and cutting salaries, triggering a police strike.

RoboCop remains on duty with his partner, Anne Lewis. They raid a manufacturing plant of Nuke, a new designer drug plaguing Detroit. The cartel's leader Cain and his prepubescent accomplice Hob escape. RoboCop has flashbacks to his previous life as Alex Murphy, and has begun watching his wife and son outside their new home. Still grieving over the death of her husband, his wife brings litigation against OCP, complaining of harassment. After his handlers dress him down, RoboCop tells his wife that Murphy is dead and he does not know her.

OCP struggles to develop RoboCop 2, a police droid fitted with the brains of legally-dead police officers, intended for mass production to replace the striking police force. The resurrected cops keep committing suicide upon activation. Morally-warped psychologist Dr. Juliette Faxx theorizes that Murphy's strong moral code and strict Catholic upbringing were critical in his initial success; she convinces the Chairman to let her lead the project to recover their 90-million dollar research and development investment. The research staff are later horrified to learn that she seeks to use death row inmates, who desire power and immortality, rather than police officers.

Cain fears losing his grip after the Delta City project, and uses corrupt police officer Duffy to undermine OCP and RoboCop's enforcement efforts. RoboCop tracks down Duffy and violently confronts him, revealing Cain's hideout. He confronts Cain's gang at an abandoned construction site, but he walks into a trap and is overwhelmed. The criminals cut apart RoboCop's body and dump the pieces in front of his precinct. Cain has Duffy vivisected for revealing their location and encourages Hob to watch.

RoboCop is repaired, but Faxx intentionally reprograms him with new and softer directives with the approval of the OCP Board of Directors that severely impede his ability to perform his duties so that her project can be selected. RoboCop eventually clears these by shocking himself with a high voltage transformer and rebooting his system. Murphy motivates the striking officers to aid him in raiding Cain's hideout. As Cain tries to escape, RoboCop wounds and apprehends him. Hob escapes and takes control of Cain's drug empire. Believing she can control Cain via his Nuke addiction, Faxx selects him for the RoboCop 2 project and disconnects his life support. Surgeons place his brain in a heavily armed robotic body, similar to ED-209, and reactivate him.

After failing to pay the city's debts via voluntary fundraising, the Mayor is contacted by Hob, who offers to retire the city's entire debt in exchange for a "hands off" policy towards Nuke, thereby nullifying OCP's scheme and preventing Delta City's construction. Threatened by this move, OCP sends Cain to the meeting. Cain slaughters everyone but the mayor, who escapes. RoboCop arrives to find a wounded Hob, who identifies the attacker before dying.

The chairman presents an unveiling ceremony for Cain and Delta City, their redevelopment plan. When he presents a canister of Nuke, Cain's uncontrollable addiction causes him to disobey his programming and murder many civilians and police officers. RoboCop arrives and fights Cain, and their battle extends to the street. RoboCop recovers the Nuke canister and Lewis uses it to distract Cain. RoboCop leaps onto his back, shoots through his armor, rips out his brain and smashes it onto the ground, ending Cain's rampage. The Chairman and Johnson decide to use Dr. Faxx as the scapegoat for Cain's attack. As Lewis complains that OCP is going to avoid accountability again, RoboCop insists they must be patient because "we're only human".

####RoboCop 3####
In a dystopian<ref>[https://www.popmatters.com/133076-robocop-trilogy-2496116149.html 'RoboCop Trilogy': Life in Dystopian Future Detroit]. popMATTERS.com(November
7, 2010). Retrieved on August 26, 2020.</ref> future, the conglomerate Omni Consumer Products (OCP) have succeeded in their plan from prior films and have acquired the city of Detroit via bankruptcy, but are now struggling with their plans to create the new Delta City. The Delta City dream of the now-deceased OCP CEO lives on with the help of the Japanese Kanemitsu Corporation, which has bought a controlling stake in OCP and is trying to finance the plan.  Kanemitsu, CEO of the Kanemitsu Corporation, proceeds with the plans to remove the current citizens in order to create Delta City, but is doubtful about the competence of his new "partners".
Due to passive resistance by the Detroit Police Department toward mass eviction, OCP creates a heavily armed private security force called the Urban Rehabilitators, nicknamed "Rehabs", under the command of Paul McDaggett, to forcibly relocate the evicted citizens such as the residents of the now condemned Cadillac Heights. Nikko Halloran, a young resident of Cadillac Heights skilled with computers, loses her parents in the relocation process.

RoboCop and his partner Anne Lewis try to defend civilians from the Rehabs one night, but McDaggett mortally wounds Lewis, who eventually dies. Unable to fight back because of his "Fourth Directive" programming, RoboCop is saved by members of a resistance movement composed of Nikko and residents from Cadillac Heights and he eventually joins them. Because he was severely damaged during the shoot-out, RoboCop's systems efficiency plummets, and he asks the resistance to summon Dr. Marie Lazarus, one of the scientists who created him. Upon arrival she begins to treat him, deleting the Fourth Directive in the process. During an earlier raid on an armory, the resistance picked up a jet-pack prototype, originally intended for RoboCop's use, which Lazarus modifies and upgrades to hold RoboCop.

After recovering from his injuries, RoboCop conducts a one-man campaign against the Rehabs and OCP. He finds McDaggett and attempts to subdue him. However, McDaggett successfully escapes and then obtains information from a disgruntled resistance member about where the resistance fighters' base is located. CEO Kanemitsu has developed his own ninja androids called "Otomo" and sends one to assist McDaggett overcome the resistance of anti-OCP militia forces. The Rehabs attack and most of the resistance members are either killed or taken prisoner. When RoboCop returns to the rebel base to find it abandoned, one Otomo unit arrives and attacks him. RoboCop experiences another power drain and his left arm and auto gun is destroyed, but eventually he successfully overcomes his opponent with his arm-mounted gun. Nikko infiltrates the OCP building and assists a captured Lazarus in broadcasting an improvised video, revealing OCP as responsible for the city's high crime rates and incriminating them for removing and killing the Cadillac Heights residents. The broadcast causes OCP's stock to plunge, financially ruining and bankrupting the company.

Meanwhile, McDaggett decides to execute an all-out strike against Cadillac Heights with the help of the Detroit police, but the police officers, enraged at the company's callous ways, refuse to comply and instead defect to the resistance, escalating the rebellion against OCP into a full-scale war. As a result, McDaggett turns to hiring street gangs and hooligans to assist with his plans.

Having heard Lazarus' broadcast, RoboCop provides aerial support for the entrenched resistance forces. He then proceeds to the OCP building and confronts the waiting McDaggett. RoboCop is then attacked, and nearly defeated, by two Otomo robots. Nikko and Lazarus succeed in reprogramming them using a wireless link from a laptop computer, having them attack each other. The Otomos' self-destruct system activates, forcing RoboCop to flee with Nikko and Lazarus. The flaming discharge from the jetpack immobilizes McDaggett, leaving him to perish in the blast.

As Old Detroit is being cleaned up, Kanemitsu arrives and finally comes face to face with RoboCop along with his group, while his translator tells the OCP president on Kanemitsu's behalf that he is fired, as the corporation shuts down OCP for good and plans to leave Detroit. Kanemitsu then bows to RoboCop and the group in respect. The CEO compliments RoboCop and asks for his name, to which he responds with, "My friends call me Murphy. You call me RoboCop."

####Robot Jox####
Fifty years after a nuclear holocaust, mankind is decimated and the surviving nations—the American western-influenced Market and the Soviet-Russian-influenced Confederation—have agreed to outlaw traditional open war. In their place, disputes are settled with gladiator-style matches between giant robots operated by pilots called "robot jox" who are contracted to fight ten matches. The Confederation champion is Alexander (Paul Koslo), who has killed his last nine opponents thanks in part to a spy in the Market leaking information to the Confederation. The Market's champion, Achilles (Gary Graham) has won nine fights and will fight his final match against Alexander for the territory of Alaska. Achilles is supported by robot designer "Doc" Matsumoto (Danny Kamekona) and strategist Tex Conway (Michael Alldredge), the only jox to win all ten of his contract fights.

As Achilles gets the upper hand in the match, Alexander launches a rocket fist at him. The projectile goes out of control and heads toward the bleachers. Achilles intercepts the projectile but his robot takes the full force of the impact and is knocked into the crowd, killing over 300 people. The referees declare the match a draw and order a rematch, but Achilles, shaken by what happened, declares this was his contractual tenth match and announces his retirement. He goes to live with his brother Philip and his family, and finds he is publicly branded a traitor and a coward. Meanwhile, a new jox is chosen to face Alexander, a genetically engineered "gen jox" named Athena (Anne-Marie Johnson), who is the first female jox. Worried for Athena and attracted to her, Achilles returns to the Market and agrees to fight Alexander again, infuriating Athena.

As Achilles' robot is rebuilt, Matsumoto refuses to divulge any knowledge of its new weapons so it cannot be leaked by the spy, and Conway confides in Achilles he believes Matsumoto is the spy. Conway confronts Matsumoto in his office. Matsumoto reveals he has analyzed Conway's final fight and deduced that the "lucky" laser hit Conway claims allowed him to defeat a clearly superior opponent was in fact deliberately aimed; Matsumoto accuses Conway of being a Confederation agent. Conway confesses and shoots Matsumoto, who secretly records the deed as part of the mission briefing. Conway informs the Market leadership that Matsumoto was the spy. On the day of the fight Athena drugs Achilles and steals his jox suit to commandeer the robot. Unable to stop the fight once she takes the field, the Market decides to support her. While watching Matsumoto's briefing on the robot's new weaponry, the footage of Conway killing Matsumoto is played and Conway jumps down the robot's elevator shaft to his death.

Alexander takes the field against Athena. Athena takes the early advantage, but Alexander overpowers her and incapacitates the robot. The fight is declared in Alexander's favor and referees order him to stand down. Achilles arrives on the field and takes over the robot from Athena while Alexander smashes the referee hovercraft; the two jox stand to continue the fight. Both robots take to the air and a short space battle ensues. Alexander critically damages Achilles' robot, forcing him to crash land and flee for cover to the arm of Alexander's robot Athena sliced off earlier in the fight. Achilles hotwires the arm to launch its fist at Alexander, destroying his robot. Alexander emerges from the wreckage and the two battle with poles before Achilles finally convinces Alexander a match does not have to end with the death of a jock. Alexander throws down his weapon, and they salute each other with the jox's traditional "crash and burn" fist bump.#tag:ref|In 2012, Haldeman wrote that he had first heard the phrase "crash and burn" used as a greeting between motorcycle racers during a Speedweek event.|group="Note"

####Robot Wars (film)####
####Rock Monster####
A group of traveling college students arrive at an Eastern European small village called Ivanovo after their bus broke down. One of the students, Jason, pulls a sword from a stone, unwittingly reviving a giant monster whose body is composed of rock. The monster goes on a killing spree, regenerating and blending in with mountain and stony hill features. Later at night, the one of his friends, Warren, having an injured ankle, goes missing alone in the woods and gets killed by the Rock Monster. Jason learns that an ancestor of his, Knight Jakivar Lazar, had slain a similar monster, as the evil Wizard Elas's spirit was imprisoned of the earth and stones from 800 years ago before their time, using the same sword.

Jason attempts to call the police for help in finding Warren at Cassandra's father's office, but the phone line is cut by criminal gypsies. On the way to another town to make a phone call, Jason and his friends see the gypsies laying dead on the road. The Rock Monster reforms and reveals itself before rising to attack them. They escape back to the village before the car explodes. Surrounded by an angry mob, Toni defends Jason by telling everyone that he is sorry for everything. During a meeting in the town city hall, the Colonel gives a speech to the villagers that inspires them to fight back against the monster together. The Colonel tells Jason that his sword is actually a powerful weapon capable of killing the monster when the latter doubts its powers.

Eventually, Jason decides to stay to help them destroy the monster. Toni reveals to him that she truly likes him, leaving for Jason to say goodbye to Benny, and that he will not leave Cassandra and Toni to fight the monster alone. Back on the main road, they learn that the monster grows stronger after feeding on the blood of its victims, and that Dimitar has been using black magic from Elas's spell books. Jason's friend, Benny, is killed by the monster while walking alone in an attempt to go home. The rock monster approaches the villagers in the woods as they begin to fire at it. It starts to go after Jason, but Toni distracts the monster using a bomb launcher so that Jason can kill it. Eventually, Jason defeats the rock monster by stabbing it in the ankle, and it shatters into pieces on the ground.

At night, back in the village, at the pub restaurant, the mayor and the villagers are celebrating Jason's triumph against the monster. Jason explains to everyone how he defeated the monster, then goes outside where he and Cassandra share a kiss. Drinking with the Colonel and the mayor, Jason confesses that he loves his daughter, leading for him to ask the mayor for her hand in marriage. Dimitar tries to kill Jason with the sword at his great-aunt Sophie's cottage while sleeping, but Toni and her farm boy lover, Johan have come to save him by knocking Dimitar unconscious.

In the jail cell bound with shackles on his hands and ankles, Dimitar tells Jason that he cannot kill the monster without a red jewel keystone. Jason punches him and leaves while Dimitar laughs with a red jewel keystone around in his neck. The next morning, in her father's office, Jason asks Cassandra to come back to America with him. Later, Jason looks at his ancestor with the sword and keystone on the ground in a portrait hanging on a wall before packing their belongings. Jason and Toni hear gunshots firing, and see Cassandra holding her dead father in her arms. The Colonel tells Jason that the monster came back to open the jail cell and free Dimitar. Jason realizes that Dimitar was telling the truth the whole time, warning that the monster will return to kill everyone until Jason dies, and he inherits the sword. As the rock monster returns to the village, Toni and the Colonel use a tank to fire at it. After another attempt, both Jason and the monster are buried beneath rocks in the mountain. Cassandra, Toni, and the Colonel decide to go back the village sadly after Jason's supposed death, and the male barkeeper becomes the new mayor. The Colonel mentions that they have run out of shells for the tank, there is no army, and they need to contact the other villages. Without any other choices, the new mayor makes a deal with Dimitar for peace. Cassandra refuses to accept this bad idea because Dimitar will enslave the village and offer the villagers to the monster either way. Meanwhile, Dimitar summons the monster to get Jason out of the rocks.

Later at night, Jason, unconscious but still alive from the rocks, is brought to a secret lair in a mountain cave. Dimitar takes the sword and adds the red jewel keystone. He reveals that he has decided not to kill him yet and that the monster's soul will be freed from its stone prison and transferred into him to make him into a powerful sorcerer. Dimitar tells him that he is the last descendant of the Lazar family to witness for Elas's evil soul of his new ultimate abilities and immortality. Leaving Jason behind at his lair as he is getting away, he returns to the village with an injured leg. The new mayor, with two men, makes a deal with Dimitar to have peace. Dimitar debates on either sparing the village and the people, or killing them. Cassandra is kidnapped, knocked out, and carried away from her father's house by the new mayor, revealing him to be a traitor. He ties her up and leaves her alone in the woods. Jason angrily asks where Cassandra is and punches him, before discovering that Cassandra's has been carried away into Dimitar's lair. Toni tells Jason that if Dimitar wants an audience to see him at the sunrise tomorrow. Cassandra refuses Dimitar's proposal.

Then, the monster follows Dimitar to the village with Cassandra, to begin the soul transference. In the midst of the process, Jason reacquires the sword and kills Dimitar with it. With the sword having little effect on the creature in combat, Jason, remembering the painting depicting his ancestor impaling the ground, does the same thing and opens the ground under the monster and later stabs it in the chest; defeating the creature and sending both it and Dimitar to Hell.

Jason departs the village along with Cassandra while Toni stays behind with Johan, who proposed to Toni earlier, which she accepted.

####Rogue One####
####Rollerball (1975 film)####
In 2018, Jonathan E. is the team captain and veteran star of the Houston Rollerball team. Mr. Bartholomew, chairman of the Energy Corporation and team sponsor, offers Jonathan a lavish retirement package if Jonathan will announce his retirement during an upcoming television special detailing his career. Jonathan refuses, and requests to see his former wife Ella, who had been taken from him some years earlier by a corporate executive who wanted her for himself.

Jonathan goes to a library, where he finds that all books have been digitized and edited to suit the corporations, and are now stored on supercomputers at large protected corporate locations. Jonathan's friend and former coach Cletus, now an Energy executive, warns him that the Executive Committee is afraid of him, though he cannot find out why.

Rollerball soon degrades into senseless violence as the rules are changed just to force Jonathan out. The Semi-final match of Houston vs. Tokyo is played with no penalties and limited substitutions in the hope Jonathan will be injured and forced out before the championship game. The brutality of the match kills several players and leaves Jonathan's best friend and teammate Moonpie in a coma.

In a teleconference, the Executive Committee decides that the next game will be played with no penalties, no substitutions, and no time limit in the hope that Jonathan will be killed during the game. Jonathan's popularity and longevity as a player threaten the underlying agenda of Rollerball: to demonstrate the futility of individualism.

Jonathan makes his way to Geneva to access the world's repository of all human knowledge, a central supercomputer known as "Zero," only to find its memory corrupted. Afterwards, Jonathan receives a visit from his former wife Ella, who has been sent to convince him to retire and to make it clear that the coming game will be "to the death". Jonathan realizes his wife's visit was set up by the Executives, and erases a long-cherished movie of the two of them, stating, "I just wanted you on my side." Jonathan decides that despite the dangers, he "will" play in the Houston versus New York championship game.

The final match devolves into a gladiatorial fight. Jonathan is soon the only player left on the track for Houston, while a skater and a biker remain from New York. After a violent struggle in front of Mr. Bartholomew's box, Jonathan kills the skater and takes the ball. The biker charges, and Jonathan knocks him off the bike and pins the biker down. He raises the ball over his head, then pauses. Refusing to kill his fallen opponent, Jonathan gets to his feet and makes his way to the goal, slamming the ball home and scoring the game's only point. After a bloody match which sees all of his teammates killed or injured, Jonathan takes a victory lap as the crowd chants his name, first softly, then louder, and finally as a roar while Mr. Bartholomew hastily exits the stands.

####Rollerball (2002 film)####

In 2005, the new sport of Rollerball, an extraordinarily violent extension of roller derby involving motorcycles and a metal ball, becomes hugely popular in many countries. Marcus Ridley invites NHL hopeful Jonathan Cross to join him playing for the Zhambel Horsemen in Kazakhstan. The highly paid Marcus and Jonathan are teamed with low-paid locals, who are often severely injured in the game.

In the beginning, Jonathan, the team's star player and the poster child of promoter Alexi Petrovich, is enamored by the high-octane sport, the popularity, sports cars, and his female teammate Aurora. But Jonathan and Ridley eventually discover that the cynical Alexi and his opportunistic assistant, Sanjay, have a vested interest in keeping the game as popular as possible, through planned gory "accidents" and ensuring that Jonathan and Ridley cannot quit the team and remain high-profile stars.

After an accident almost kills Aurora, Jonathan and Ridley decide that they need to flee the country to save their lives. The two are followed by Alexi and several bodyguards, who attack the two before they can reach the Russian border. Jonathan is injured and Ridley has to leave him behind. Alexi and his men capture Jonathan and kill Ridley after the latter successfully crosses the border.

Following the escape attempt, Alexi tries to stage a public execution of Jonathan by removing all the rules from the upcoming Rollerball match, along with trading Aurora to the opposing team (as requested by Jonathan in an attempt to get her away from danger). However, Jonathan, with the help of his teammates, start a revolution, causing the fans to see the sport for what it really is, and ultimately to kill Alexi.

####Runaway (1984 American film)####

In the near future, robots are commonplaceem dasha part of everyday life like any other electrical applianceem dashand are just as prone to malfunctions. When a robot malfunctions, it could pose a threat to people or property. Such robots are known as "runaways". Since they are more dangerous than the average machine, they are handled by a division of the police trained in robotics. The "runaway" squad, however, is treated as an easy and unexciting assignment, and often ridiculed.

Sgt. Jack R. Ramsay is a veteran police officer who joined the runaway squad after an incident in which his fear of heights allowed a criminal to escape, which subsequently resulted in a family's death at the hands of that escaped criminal. After years on the job, Ramsay has found himself one of the division's few real experts. His new partner Karen Thompson is enthusiastic about the job, but he assures her there is little excitement involved, saying that mostly it involves flipping a switch. This changes when they find themselves handling a new threatem dashthe first robotic homicide. Investigating a household robot that murdered a family with a kitchen knife and handgun, Jack discovers strange integrated circuits, which not only override a robot's safety features but also direct it to attack humans. These circuits are not hacked chips, but created from a series of master templates, enabling them to be mass-produced.

Despite being unable to learn anything from uncooperative informants who end up dead, Ramsay refuses to give up and soon discovers the perpetrator is sociopathic genius Dr. Charles Luther. Luther, while working for a defense contractor, developed a program that allows a robot to thermographically identify a human from amidst cover and to even differentiate between humans. Seeing the profit potential, he killed his fellow researchers and tried to sell the technology on the black market. A failed attempt to arrest Lutherem dashcomplicated by Ramsay having to remove an explosive shell from Thompson's armem dashresults in the recovery of another of Luther's weapons, a smart bullet: a miniature heat seeking missile capable of locking onto a human target's unique heat signature, pursuing them wherever they run, even around corners.

While investigating another of Luther's partners, Ramsay and Thompson find Jackie Rogers, who was once Luther's lover. She double-crossed him and stole the circuit templates, intending to sell them herself. She is scared because she believes Luther will stop at nothing to kill her. When they create a ruse to transfer Jackie to safety, Luther attacks the police convoy with robotic smart bombs. They discover that the bombs are zeroing in on a bug in Jackie's purse; they throw the bag out the window before a bomb reaches the car.

Ramsay decides to make a public appearance with Jackie at a restaurant to draw Luther out, but instead Luther captures Thompson and wants Ramsay to exchange her for Jackie and the templates. Before making the exchange, Jackie gives some of the templates to Ramsay, for insurance that Luther won't kill her. But Luther kills her anyway, after discovering the templates missing. He then fires his smart bullets into the crowded restaurant and flees.

To retrieve the missing templates, Luther plans to attack Ramsay. He uses the police computers to discover everything about Ramsay's personal life, including his son. Once Ramsay discovers his information has been hacked, he races home to find his household robot damaged and his son Bobby missing. Luther calls to confirm he kidnapped Bobby and wants to exchange him for the missing templates.

Ramsay agrees to meet Luther at an unfinished skyscraper. Luther gets the templates while in exchange Ramsay sends his son down in an elevator whereupon Luther informs him that a legion of "assassin" robotsem dashsmall, spider-like robots which kill by injecting their victims with acidem dashare waiting to kill the first person exiting the elevator. Thompson arrives and helps Bobby stay out of reach of the robots. Furious, Luther begins firing smart bullets, but Ramsay turns on the robotic construction equipment, creating multiple heat sources which cause the bullets to miss. Ramsay escapes and jumps on the elevator to go down. However, the elevator malfunctions, and speeds up to the very top and stops. Ramsay is forced to overcome his fear of heights by reaching a reset button underneath the elevator to restart it, while encountering three robot spiders. Ramsay defeats the three spiders and restarts the elevator downward. The elevator then stops on the floor Luther is on, with Luther approaching an already exhausted Ramsay in the elevator and insults Ramsay about his experience up top, causing Ramsay to start the elevator down again. During the descent, Ramsay and Luther fight, but Ramsay gains the upper hand by stopping the elevator. The abrupt stop catapults Luther onto the ground, in the midst of his robot spiders. Programmed to kill whoever came down, the robots rush Luther, injecting him several times.

Ramsay helps his son down and then cautiously approaches the motionless villain. Screaming, Luther reaches up to grab Ramsay, but falls back, dead, while the spiders self-destruct around him. Ramsay and Thompson share a passionate kiss.

####The Running Man (1987 film)####

By 2017, the United States has become a totalitarian police state following a worldwide economic collapse and the recent election. The government pacifies the populace through violent TV shows; its most popular being "The Running Man", a broadcast game show, where criminals fight for their lives as "runners," fleeing from armed mercenaries called "stalkers," to earn a government pardon and tropical vacation.

Captain Ben Richards, a police helicopter pilot, observes an unarmed food riot in Bakersfield, California. He is ordered to open fire on them, but refuses and is subdued by his colleagues. The media blames Richards for shooting sixty people and he is sent to a prison labor camp. Eighteen months later, he escapes with two resistance fighters, Harold Weiss and William Laughlin, finding refuge in their camp, led by their leader, Mick. The resistance group looks to hijack the ICS broadcast network's uplink facilities to expose the government's lies. Richards declines to help, and then heads to his brother's apartment, only to find it is now occupied by Amber Mendez, a composer, and that his brother has been sent to a "re-education" camp.

With Mendez's security travel pass, Richards takes Mendez hostage to flee to Hawaii but is arrested at the airport when Mendez alerts security. Meanwhile, Damon Killian, the charismatic, amoral host of "The Running Man", becomes enamored by Richards's physical prowess and "notorious reputation" as a murderous madman. Killian coerces Richards to participate in the show, in exchange for Weiss and Laughlin's freedom. Meanwhile, Amber sees a news report stating that Richards shot people at the airport, which she knows is untrue. As the game begins, Killian sends Weiss and Laughlin into the game-show arena with Richards, in an abandoned part of Los Angeles. They are first attacked by the stalker Sub-Zero, but Richards garrotes him with a section of razor-wire fencing, the first time a stalker has ever died on the show.

Mendez finds the original, unedited footage of the Bakersfield massacre. However, she is caught and sent into the game zone, joining the other three "contestants." Killian now deploys two stalkers — Buzzsaw and Dynamo — to hunt the four runners.

Weiss realizes that the government/TV satellite uplink station, which the underground resistance has been searching for, is located in the game show arena. Dynamo electrocutes Weiss, just as he cracks the satellite's security, but Mendez has memorized the access code. Buzzsaw mortally wounds Laughlin, but Richards bisects Buzzsaw with his own chainsaw. Dynamo is incapacitated by Richards, who spares the stalker live on air. Laughlin tells Richards that the resistance has a hidden base in the arena before dying from his wounds. Off the air, Killian offers Richards a position as a stalker, which the enraged Richards refuses. Hunted by Fireball, a flamethrower-wielding stalker with a jetpack, Mendez finds the corpses of the show's alleged past "winners," revealing that the show's promises of pardons are all false. Richards saves Mendez and kills Fireball by sabotaging his gas tank and setting him alight with a road flare. Immediately afterward, the pair stumbles into Mick's command center.

With the viewership now cheering for Richards, Killian asks Captain Freedom, a retired stalker and fan favorite, to join the hunt. When Captain Freedom refuses to fight using mechanical weaponry instead of his bare hands, the network doctors old footage to depict Richards and Mendez being killed by Captain Freedom. Mendez and Richards see this on TV, convincing Richards to lead resistance forces to storm the ICS control room. Using the access codes, they broadcast the original footage of the Bakersfield massacre and the deceased runners to expose Killian and the government's lies. As the resistance fighters battle ICS security forces, Dynamo tries to rape Amber. However, her gun triggers the building's sprinkler system, which electrocutes Dynamo.

Richards confronts Killian, who desperately pleads that the show appeases the public's lust for violence, but Richards forces Killian into a rocket-powered sled, jettisoning him into the game zone, causing him to fatally crash through his own billboard image. As the audience celebrates, Richards reunites with Mendez, departing the studio as the broadcasting network goes down.

####S.S. Doomtrooper####
During World War II, SS Lieutenant Reinhardt arrives at the Citadel, a French castle being used as a German laboratory. He meets Dr. Ullman (Ben Cross), whom he relieves of command. He finds three caged dogs who are horribly mutated; they are extremely muscled and their bodies glow. Ullman reveals that this is his latest experiment and requests one of Reinhardt's men for a demonstration.

A soldier is strapped into a capsule and injected with a chemical, then exposed to an unknown type of radiation. Moments later, he collapses and begins to transform: his skin turns blue, and he becomes hugely muscled and sprouts claws.

In the United States, Captain Pete Malloy (Corin Nemec), is tasked with locating and destroying the Citadel. He forms a team of British and American prisoners who are offered their freedom in exchange for participation. He also enlists his friend, Sergeant Digger of the Royal Marines. They prematurely parachute into German territory under heavy anti-aircraft fire.  Two soldiers (Corporal Johnson and Private Andy Papadakis) are separated from the team and continue to the meeting point.

Lieutenant Reinhardt, after learning of the team's arrival, gives Dr. Ullman permission to test the Doomtrooper.

Johnson and Papadakis encounter the Doomtrooper in a local village. They try to kill it but the Doomtrooper just shrugs off the bullets. Johnson is shot by a machine gun attached to the creature's arm. Papadakis prepares to fight but the team arrives and fires at the Doomtrooper. They repel it long enough for Papadakis to escape. The group throw grenades at the Doomtrooper and assume it is dead.

Reinhardt is pleased with the report about the Doomtrooper engaging the Allied soldiers. He orders a team to recover the Doomtrooper. Ullman tells his assistant that the soldiers will be killed by it. This comes true when the Doomtrooper slaughters the German team and then grabs the team leader and electrocutes him.

The Allied soldiers search for a place to hide. They enter an empty building,  but stumble upon a French Resistance hideout, led by Mariette Martinet. They decide to team up to kill the monster. The soldiers and resistance fighters plan to take and raid an ammunition dump, and use the explosives to destroy the Citadel.

That night, the Doomtrooper attacks the hideout, killing most of the French Resistance. Corporal Potter briefly disables the Doomtrooper with a grenade launcher, but after it recovers, Potter punches it in the face. This surprisingly harms the Doomtrooper, but it quickly recovers, picks up Potter, and shoots him in half. Private Lewis twists his ankle as he flees and is nearly killed, but the Doomtrooper runs out of ammunition. The Doomtrooper fails to notice the soldiers hiding from it and walks off.

Back at the Citadel, Reinhardt orders Ullman back to Berlin after ending the Doomtrooper project. Enraged, Ullman shoots Reinhardt and his adjutant, then orders his assistant to gather more men so he can grow new Doomtroopers.

On their way to the ammo dump, the team comes across a German panzer out hunting for the Doomtrooper. Papadakis kills the tank commander and they steal the tank. Just then the Doomtrooper attacks, having been attracted by the gunshots. They fire a tank round at the Doomtrooper at point blank range, but that only stuns it.

Jones disguises himself as the tank commander and they proceed to the ammo dump. Jones distracts the Germans while the team takes control of a guard post with a machine gun, which they use to shoot the distracted Germans. They decide to detonate the entire munitions dump to destroy the Doomtrooper.

Captain Malloy and Mariette lure the Doomtrooper into an ammunition bunker by using a flamethrower. They escape by elevator while the rest of the team close the bunker door, trapping the Doomtrooper inside. After forgetting to lock the door, Jean-Claude attempts to bar it to prevent the Doomtrooper from escaping, but the creature electrocutes him through the iron door. The rest of the team escapes to a safe distance and detonates the munitions.

The team makes their way to the Citadel, but the Germans are ready and plan to stop them. On the way, they encounter a sniper. Jones is ordered to distract the sniper so that Papadakis can take him out. Papadakis is about to fire, but is shot through his scope. Enraged because he could not distract the German sniper, Jones runs out into an open field and is also shot, though it buys Captain Malloy time to kill the German sniper. They decide that they must leave the wounded Jones behind because he will slow them down. Once alone, Jones discovers that his family medallion blocked the bullet, saving his life.

Meanwhile, the team steals a Kubelwagen full of wine and gets into the castle by disguising themselves. Their cover is almost blown, but Jones shows up with a rocket launcher and leads the guards into the forest, where he is eventually killed. Taking advantage of the distraction, the Allied team kills the remaining Germans, but the ones who chased Jones into the forest return. During the ensuing fight, Digger blows himself up, destroying most of the remaining Germans. The team is captured by Doctor Ullman's assistant, who takes them into his lab. While the doctor is explaining his plans, Captain Malloy, Mariette and Private Lewis, break free. Malloy and Mariette overpower the guards and hold Ullman at gunpoint while they examine the lab. They then kill the German soldier in the capsule transforming into a Doomtrooper.

Lewis realizes he can short circuit the lab's power by hotwiring the controls of the Doomtrooper capsule. However, Ullman strikes Mariette down and wounds Lewis before being wounded by Malloy. His assistant tries to escape but runs into the original Doomtrooper, who survived the ammo dump and killed all the guards. Ullman orders it to kill everyone in the room, so it begins with his assistant.

In order to buy Lewis time, Malloy fights the Doomtrooper, cutting off its hand, even though the Doomtrooper was uninjured by bullets and missiles. Meanwhile, Lewis short circuits the power but is electrocuted. After being thrown by the Doomtrooper, Malloy picks up two electrical cables and jams them under the creature's helmet, killing it. Malloy, Mariette and an injured, but alive, Digger  barely escapes the castle as it crumbles down around them.

Back in America, Captain Malloy reports to General Carmichael and when the general asks for any experimental records or data, Malloy says that it only killed his friends and should never be recreated again. Outside, Malloy says that the General wouldn't mind if they borrow his car. He rigs the car and drives away with Digger and Mariette.

####Saga of a Star World####
####The Salute of the Jugger####
In a barren world caused by wars waged in the 20th century and now forgotten, most live from hand to mouth in enclaves known as "market-towns" or "dog-towns", scrounging out a bare subsistence harvesting hardy crops, raising dogs as food, and trading in trinkets from the past.

What little entertainment exists comes primarily from a brutal sport known as The Game. It is played by bands of roving teams known as juggs, who challenge local teams.  They might be considered professional athletes, as they make their living through the tribute paid by the town people, should they defeat the local team. Their trophy is the dog skull from the town. The Game involves two armoured teams of five attempting to score by placing a dog skull on the opposing team's goalpost. One unarmed player—the "quick"—runs with the skull while being protected by his/her teammates from attack by the opposing team.

However, not all in this time live so sparsely.  The Nine Cities, buried deep underground, are home to affluent and powerful members of the aristocracy.  Each of The Nine Cities fields its own team of juggs in an organization known as The League, and its membership is maintained with a fresh stream of new players who are proven veterans of the travelling "dog-town" games by their collection of trophy skulls.

Members of The League live in luxury almost equal to that of aristocrats.  It is a dream among roving juggs to be good enough to get The League's attention and, with it, all of the luxuries afforded a League player.

The team consists of Sallow (Rutger Hauer), Dog-Boy (Justin Monjo), Mbulu (Delroy Lindo), Big Cimber (Anna Katarina), and Young Gar (Vincent D'Onofrio).

Sallow, the team leader, has played in the League of the Nine Cities before, but was cast out because of his indiscretions with an Overlord's daughter. Kidda (Joan Chen), an ambitious peasant girl, joins the team after a game in her dog town where she virtually destroyed her competition. She and Gar inspire Sallow to challenge The League and expunge his past.

But Kidda and Gar do not realise that the City games are for much more than honour and victory, they will need to fight for their very survival.  The Game is played much harder and meaner in the Nine Cities.

####Samaritan (film)####

Superhumans Samaritan and Nemesis were antagonistic twin brothers who lived in Granite City.  Evenly matched, the villainous Nemesis crafts <!-- not using the term "forged" here which is more accurate, but could be mistaken for "fake" --> a mystical sledgehammer that gave him an edge over the heroic Samaritan. However, the hammer could hurt both brothers. During a confrontation at the city's power plant, both were apparently killed as the plant exploded.  Many people remain fans of Samaritan, and there are constant rumors that he is still alive.

Twenty five years later, thirteen-year-old Sam Cleary tries his best to help his mother with their financial crisis, and, after being threatened with eviction, he accepts a job from a gang headed by Reza. The plan goes awry and Reza tries to blame Sam, but the real gang leader, Cyrus, is impressed and personally gives Sam $110. Reza and his friends later attack Sam as payback but are stopped by Joe Smith, a garbage collector who lives in an apartment across from Sam's.  Joe displays super-strength in fighting off the gang members, and Sam suspects that he is Samaritan. Meanwhile, Cyrus locates Nemesis' hammer at a police station and sets himself up as the new Nemesis, sparking riots and chaos throughout the city, using EMP grenades to blackout and disrupt the city infrastructure.

After Sam confronts him, Joe denies that he is Samaritan, but Reza - still looking for revenge - hits him with his car. Joe is badly injured but heals before Sam's eyes, overheating so much he has to be cooled down in a cold shower and by eating ice cream. Joe and Sam build a friendship, while at the same time Cyrus invites Sam to work with his gang. However, Sam is disturbed when he witnesses their violent activities.

When Joe saves a young girl from an explosion caused by the gang, the media claims that Samaritan is back threatening Cyrus' plans. Reza recognizes Joe as being the same person he "killed" with his car and thus his identity and connection to Sam. Finding Joe's apartment empty, they kidnap Sam and his mother to lure Joe to their headquarters as a trap. Joe breaks into the headquarters, and decimates the gang before being confronted by Cyrus, now dressed as Nemesis and wielding the hammer.  Despite his strength, Joe is weakened from the gang fight, and at a disadvantage against the hammer giving Cyrus the upper hand. As they fight, with Cyrus calling himself Nemesis, and Joe "the good guy", Joe reveals that Samaritan "did" die during the power plant fire, and Joe is actually Nemesis, who survived but left his villainous life behind. It is shown in flashback that Samaritan had effectively won the fight, but refused to kill Nemesis, instead tossing the hammer away. The roof subsequently gave way, leaving Samaritan hanging precariously above the flames. Despite his best efforts and a change of heart, Nemesis was unable to save his brother. Destroying the hammer, Joe kills Cyrus by knocking him into a burning abyss - the same way Samaritan died - but almost overheats from his healing abilities and the spreading fire. Sam breaks open a pipe to shower him with water, allowing Joe to recover enough to escape with Sam by jumping out a window. When Sam questions Joe about being Nemesis, he says that he is. He tried to save his brother and has been racked with guilt for his atrocities. That the death of Samaritan was his fault, and he couldn't move past it. He tells Sam that there is good and evil in all people, and that Sam has to make the right decisions. Joe leaves, overhearing Sam tell the press that "Samaritan" saved him.

####The Scam Artist####
####Scorched Earth (2018 film)####
In the not-too-distant future, the world is ravaged by brutal climate changes, colloquially known as the Cloud Fall. The combination of pollution and relentless mining of Earth's resources through industrialism has left the environment nearly unlivable and extremely hostile to human habitation. Humanity is forcefully reverted to a simpler lifestyle, relying on barter for the two most valuable resources now: Water purifiers, called tabs, and silver, ground up to line the interior of breathing masks, to keep out a painful and fatal airborne disease known as Black Lung.

Driving vehicles that use fossil fuel becomes outlawed. Anyone caught driving such a vehicle was given the maximum sentence, and numerous people have become bounty hunters, bringing in drivers and other lawbreakers in exchange for tabs and silver, dead or alive. Gage, a bounty hunter, tortures Womack, a follower of an outlaw named Chavo, leaves him in the wilderness, then locates and kills Chavo after a brutal fight, freeing several pilgrims in the process. She brings the body back to claim the reward from Sheriff Grubbs, a slightly corrupt and greedy lawman of New Montana. While there, she visits Doc, her mentor and friend. He tells her of a massive reward for Thomas Jackson, an unusually industrious outlaw who is building a shelter-town for criminals, calling it Defiance. Gage decides she wants to try taking him down alone. Doc warns that every bounty hunter that tried has been killed and strung up as a warning to other would-be bounty hunters.

Masquerading herself as Chavo, Gage makes it into Defiance unchallenged. Jackson's right-hand man, Lear, is distrustful of Gage, but is unable to prove anything, and Gage endears herself to Jackson by saving his life when Grubbs and a posse sneak into Defiance to try taking him out. Jackson decides to include Gage in his plans, which includes enslaving the entire region to work in the silver mines near his town, he offers Gage 15% of the cut of the profits in exchange for her services as a gunfighter, and unintentionally revealing a scar on his forearm, which Gage's sister had made when she bit him, before he killed her. Shortly after, Jackson took Gage, Lear and several men to capture pilgrims with armored vehicles and armed escorts. Among the pilgrims is Beatrice, one of the women Gage saved from Chavo earlier. She warns the woman to be quiet and patient. While Jackson and his men celebrate, Gage urges Melena, Jackson's girlfriend, to leave Defiance that night, revealing her identity as a bounty hunter.

She apprehends Jackson, but is captured immediately, having been betrayed by Melena, and also identified by Womack, who was now terminally infected by black lung. They briefly torture Gage, then Womack drives her out into the wilderness, and dumps her in a gorge. She survives the fall, and manages to get back to New Montana, but contracted a severe case of black lung. Doc revives her and tends her wounds, and together, the two plot to take down Jackson and the entire town of Defiance. They liberate Beatrice and the other captives from the silver mine, then engage the entire town. Gage severely wounds Lear, and is saved from a sniper by a repentant Melena. Gage pursues Jackson to the mines and fights with him, leaving him to die in an explosion using dynamite.

She returns to the town, where a wounded Doc had managed to dispatch Lear for good, cuts down the corpses hanging in the town entrance, and transports Doc back to New Montana by stretcher.

####Scorcher (film)####
####Screamers (1995 film)####

In the year 2078, the planet Sirius 6B, once a thriving mining hub, has been reduced to a toxic wasteland by a war between the mining company, known as the New Economic Block (N.E.B.), and "The Alliance", a group of former mining and science personnel. After miners discovered that their extraction of ore released toxic gases, they went on strike, and the mining company hired mercenaries as strike breakers. Five years into the war, Alliance scientists created and deployed Autonomous Mobile Swords (AMS) — artificially intelligent self-replicating machines that hunt down and kill N.E.B. soldiers on their own.  They are nicknamed "screamers" because of a high-pitched noise they emit as they attack.  Screamers track targets by their heartbeats, so Alliance soldiers wear "tabs" which broadcast a signal canceling out the wearer's heartbeat and rendering them "invisible" to the machines.

A fragile stalemate is in effect between the two exhausted, poorly supplied, and undermanned armies.  The Alliance recovers a message from a dead N.E.B. soldier, killed by screamers as he approached the Alliance compound, guaranteeing safe passage through N.E.B. territory to discuss a truce.  When Alliance commanding officer Joe Hendricksson reports this development to his Earth-based superiors, he is told that peace negotiations are already underway on Earth; but Private "Ace" Jefferson, newly arrived from Earth, says that is untrue.  Hendricksson is not surprised; he has long suspected that both sides have simply written off Sirius 6B and abandoned their armies.

Hendricksson decides that the only realistic chance of survival for himself and his soldiers is to accept the N.E.B. truce offer.  He sets out for a meeting with the N.E.B. commander, accompanied by Jefferson. While traveling through a destroyed city they come upon a war orphan, a young boy named David, clutching a teddy bear.  Unwilling to abandon a defenseless civilian, they bring the boy along.  The following night they are attacked by a reptilian screamer that they have never before encountered.  Hendricksson is alarmed that their Alliance tabs did not protect them.

As the group nears the N.E.B. compound, two enemy soldiers, Becker and Ross, open fire on David, whose chest explodes in a shower of gears, bolts, and wires.  They explain to the astonished Alliance men that David was a new "type 3" screamer impersonating a human.  Most of the N.E.B. contingent has been wiped out by another "David" screamer that a patrol unwittingly brought into the base; Becker, Ross, and a black marketeer named Jessica are the only survivors.

The group heads to the N.E.B. command center but finds only an empty building and large pools of blood. Locating the mainframe computer, Hendricksson learns that the N.E.B. truce offer was just as false as the Alliance message from Earth. The group retreats to the N.E.B. bunker, pursued by "Davids".  The discovery that the screamers have "evolved" new versions on their own that are  indistinguishable from humans, and immune to Alliance tabs, leads to paranoia and distrust.  Becker becomes convinced that Ross is a screamer and kills him, only to discover that he was human.  The four survivors retreat to the Alliance base, only to find that the "Davids" have gained entrance to that compound as well, with equally devastating results.  As dozens of "Davids" pour out of the bunker's entrance, Hendricksson fires a micro-nuclear missile into the bunker.  Jefferson rushes to the aid of Becker, who was apparently injured in the blast, but Becker's cries of distress are a ruse; he is a "type 2" screamer, and he kills Jefferson. After Hendricksson destroys Becker, only he and Jessica remain.

Now paranoid, Hendricksson worries that Jessica could be a screamer as well.  He slashes her hand, and is relieved to see blood dripping from the wound. They locate an emergency escape shuttle.  As they prepare it for launch, they are attacked by another "Becker" that Hendricksson destroys. With the shuttle now prepared, they discover it can carry only one person. Hendricksson offers the shuttle to Jessica; but a second "Jessica" arrives, confirming that she is a screamer after all, and even more human-like.  Hendricksson resigns himself to death; but to his surprise, Jessica shields him, then sacrifices herself in battle with her lookalike.  With her last breath, Jessica confesses her love for Hendricksson.

Hendricksson departs for Earth on the escape shuttle with a single souvenir, the teddy bear carried by the original "David".  As the screen fades to black, the bear slowly begins to move on its own.

####Screamers: The Hunting####
A group of humans arrive on Sirius 6-B to investigate an SOS signal sent out from the planet, which has been supposedly deserted since the destruction of the man-made weapons known as "screamers". Once the squad arrives, they find a group of human survivors eking out an existence in an old military outpost, but more important, they discover that the threat of the screamers has become even more insidious, now that they're able to morph into human form.

####Self/less####
Billionaire New Yorker Damian Hale is diagnosed with terminal cancer. He finds a business card directing him to Professor Albright, who informs him about a medical procedure called "shedding", in which one's consciousness is transferred into a new body. Damian agrees to the procedure and follows Albright's instructions to stage his own public death. Albright then transfers him into a new, younger body, and prescribes medication to alleviate the vivid hallucinations which he claims are side effects of the procedure.

Damian starts a new life in New Orleans under the incognito name of Edward Kidner and is quickly befriended by his neighbor Anton. He later forgets to take his medicine and has hallucinations of a woman and child. Damian (as Edward) questions Albright, who dismisses it, but accidentally mentions details of the hallucinations that Damian had not disclosed.

Albright then arranges for Damian to take a vacation in Hawaii, but Damian, convinced the hallucinations are a real memory, identifies a landmark he saw in his vision and heads to a farmhouse outside of St. Louis. There, he finds the woman, Madeline, who reacts to him as her apparently deceased husband Mark. Damian plays along as Mark, though he is shocked to learn that Mark may have sold himself to Albright, in order to pay for their daughter Anna's life-saving treatment. Damian and Madeline are suddenly attacked by Albright's men, including Anton. Damian fatally wounds Anton and kills his accomplices, then flees with Madeline to collect Anna from school.

At a nearby motel, Damian then uses a laptop to research additional details regarding "shedding", and discovers that a man named Dr. Francis Jensen, now deceased, was the pioneer researcher in the field of transhumanism. In a video, Damian notices a tic Jensen shares with Albright, then sees Albright sitting next to Jensen, deducing that Jensen may have shed his consciousness into Albright's body.

Damian then finds Jensen's wife, Phyllis, in a nursing home, but she is living with Alzheimer's and remembers nothing. Damian lures Jensen (Albright) to the facility, where he reveals that the pills are meant to fully eliminate the original personalities of the bodies used in the shedding procedure, telling Damian that without the pills, Damian's consciousness will die, and Mark's will re-emerge.

Jensen later escapes when more killers arrive. Damian is almost overpowered, but Madeline wounds the attacker, who proves to be Anton in a new body. Anton reveals that he has shed multiple times. While Damian confiscates Anton's pills, Anton taunts Madeline to ask her "husband" why he cannot answer personal questions about their life.

Madeline then confronts "Mark" over his lack of knowledge of their personal details, causing Damian to reveal the entire story. He takes her and Anna to his old friend Martin O'Neill, and convinces Martin to arrange for Madeline and Anna to flee to the Caribbean. When he and Madeline discover Anna playing with Martin's previously deceased child Tony, Martin admits that he allowed Tony to also use shedding, and that Jensen's men are coming. Damian then reveals shedding's secret to Martin, who reacts in shock and disgust. Damian distracts Jensen's men while Martin flees with the others. Damian again fatally injures Anton, but the other thugs realize that Damian is alone and turn to recapture Madeline and Anna.

Damian then purposely stops taking his medicine to experience more of Mark's memories, which reveal that Jensen has a lab in an abandoned warehouse. Jensen captures him and starts to shed Anton into Mark's body. Damian, remembering that metal interferes with the process, hides a bullet casing in his mouth, causing the Shedding Machine to malfunction and destroy Anton's consciousness. Masquerading as Anton, Damian then rescues the others. Although Jensen tries to claim that Damian needs him to survive, Martin was able to reverse-engineer the pills and give Damian the formula, allowing Damian  to safely torch Jensen to death with a flamethrower. After killing Jensen, he has Martin complete Madeline and Anna's escape to the Caribbean.

Damian later visits his estranged daughter Claire but does not reveal his presence inside Mark, simply giving her a letter that reconciles Claire with her father. Damian then travels to the Caribbean and fully stops taking his medicine. The real Mark then slowly re-emerges, and finds a video message from Damian thanking him for the time that he gave to him. The story concludes with Mark finally reuniting with his family.

####Serenity (2005 film)####
In the 26th century, humanity has colonized a new solar system. The central planets formed the Alliance and won a war against the outer planet Independents who resisted joining the Alliance. River Tam is conditioned by Alliance scientists into becoming a psychic and an assassin but is soon rescued by her brother Dr. Simon Tam. During her training, River inadvertently read the minds of several top government officials and learned their secrets. Consequently, an Alliance agent known only as the Operative is tasked with recapturing her.

The siblings have found refuge aboard the transport spaceship "Serenity" with Captain Malcolm "Mal" Reynolds, first mate Zoe Washburne, pilot Hoban "Wash" Washburne, mercenary Jayne Cobb, and mechanic Kaylee Frye. Despite Simon's objections, Mal brings River on a bank robbery. River warns them that savage and cannibalistic Reavers are coming. They escape, but Simon decides he and River will leave "Serenity" at the next port. Once there, however, a subliminal message in a television commercial causes River to attack numerous bar patrons, and Mal takes the siblings back aboard the ship. The crew contacts reclusive hacker Mr. Universe, who discovers the message designed to trigger River's mental conditioning. He notes River whispered "Miranda" before attacking and warns that someone else has viewed the footage.

Mal receives an invitation from Inara Serra. Realising it is a trap, Mal goes to confront the Operative who promises to let him go free if he hands over River. Mal barely escapes. Miranda is discovered to be a planet located beyond a region of space swarming with Reavers. The crew flies to the planet Haven but find it devastated and their friend Shepherd Book mortally wounded. The Operative promises to kill anyone who assists them until he gets River.

Mal has the crew disguise "Serenity" as a Reaver ship and they travel to Miranda undetected. They find its 30 million colonists dead, and a recording that explains an experimental chemical to suppress aggression had been added into Miranda's atmosphere. The population became so docile they stopped performing all activities of daily living and placidly died. A small proportion of them had the opposite reaction and became insanely aggressive and violent. The Alliance had created the Reavers and this was the secret in River's subconscious.

Mr. Universe agrees to broadcast the recording. However, the Operative kills him and prepares an ambush. Knowing this, the crew provoke the Reaver fleet into chasing them toward the Alliance armada. The Reavers and Alliance battle while Wash pilots "Serenity" through the crossfire. He crash lands near the broadcast tower before being fatally impaled by a Reaver spear.

The crew make a last stand against the Reavers to buy Mal time to broadcast the recording. The crew retreats behind a set of blast doors that fail to properly close. Simon is shot, and River dives through the doors to throw back Simon's medical kit and close the doors before the Reavers drag her away. At the transmitter, Mal fights the Operative, finally subduing him and forcing him to watch as the recording is broadcast. Mal returns to the crew. The blast doors open to reveal that River has killed all the Reavers. The Operative orders the Alliance troops to stand down.

The Operative provides medical aid and resources to repair "Serenity." He tells Mal the broadcast has weakened the Alliance government, but while he will try to convince the Parliament that River and Simon are no longer threats, he warns that they may continue their pursuit in retribution for getting the word out. "Serenity" takes off, with River as Mal's new pilot.

####Sharkansas Women's Prison Massacre####
Two employees for Arkansas Fracking Industries (AFI), Fred and Sam are busy detonating explosives near the Arkansas State Prison for Women when they inadvertently release a shark covered in spikes into the surrounding swamp. As five inmates, Anita, Michelle, Sarah, Shannon, and Samantha, load up in a transport vehicle, the shark kills Fred and Sam. Detectives Kendra and Adam, comb the swamps for someone and find an overturned canoe, next to some human remains. Under the canoe is a man blabbering “shark” repeatedly. The corrections officers and 5 prisoners arrive at an area of the swamp where the prisoners are required to remove tree stumps. Samantha bribes Mike to let her go wash off her arm in the nearby creek and she is eaten by the shark. Mike searches for her, finds only bloody clothes, and radios into the warden that she has escaped. Heading back to the prison, Anita's girlfriend Honey, hijacks the van and forces the two officers into the back with the others allowing Anita up front. Kendra and Adam overhear on their scanner about the hijacking. Honey and Anita stop to change vehicles and make the women change. Mike escapes into the swamp but is eaten by the shark.

The prisoners arrive at a house where Honey has killed the occupant for them to hide out temporarily. While there, the girls argue amongst themselves and Sarah goes outside to the nearby creek when the shark appears. She runs off but the shark is able to burrow through the mud and bites her leg off. She bleeds out crawling back to the house and Michelle finds her body outside. They discover her severed leg nearby with a shark's tooth embedded in it, when suddenly two geologists, Professor Orville and his assistant John, emerge from the trees saying their car was destroyed by a land shark. The geologists theorize that nearby explosions and fracking opened a “superhighway” between Earth's surface and an underground ocean, releasing a predator capable of hunting on land and in water. They try to make it to the van but the shark tunnels through the dirt forcing them back inside the house. Michelle uncovers a secret stash of assault weapons in the house and everyone takes a gun.

Outside, they discover there are several sharks now but spot a cave entrance off the back of the property. They use some of their ammunition's gunpowder to create a makeshift bomb with clothes they soak in some blood Carl volunteers. This creates a distraction for them to run to the cave. When Orville sprains his ankle, John sacrifices himself so Carl and Honey can help the professor. Detectives Kendra and Adam arrive at the cabin but are attacked by the sharks and are forced to drive off. Inside the cafe, the others hear the sharks communicating the same way as whales. They discover a shaft of daylight and resolve to use a blow up raft they have to cross it when Orville gets eaten by a shark. In pairs, they make it across the water. Honey and Anita are the last to cross and Anita decides to shoot at Carl, Shannon, and Michelle as they are nearing the shore which causes her to lose her balance and fall into the water. Sharks attack, eating her and Honey while Shannon is struck by one of Anita's bullets and killed. Carl allows Michelle to leave. The detectives, who found maps of the cave somehow online, drive up to the exit where Carl is standing and they ask about the prisoners and Carl reports them all as dead. Kendra, at this point is obsessing over "land sharks" and asks if Carl knows what they are up against and he nods. The final scene shows Honey crawling out from the water, having survived the shark attack before looking at the camera to deliver her catchphrase “crap on a cracker”.

####Shazam! (film)####
####She-Wolves of the Wasteland####
####Silent Rage####
In a small Texas town, John Kirby, a mentally ill man, kills two members of the family with whom he was staying. Sheriff Daniel "Dan" Stevens and his deputy Charlie, respond and eventually arrest John, but he breaks out of the handcuffs, overpowers the other officers and grabs a shotgun, forcing the officers to shoot him.

Severely injured and near death, John is transported to an institute where his psychiatrist, Dr. Thomas "Tom" Halman, works along with Dr. Phillip Spires and Dr. Paul Vaughn, two doctors and geneticists. To save John, Phillip proposes treating him with a formula created by himself and Paul to enhance cellular strength and regeneration. Tom objects to its use due to John's psychosis, and Phillip pretends to agree but later administers the formula anyway once Tom leaves. Revived and rendered nearly mute but virtually invulnerable, John escapes from the institute and tracks Tom to his home, having overheard Tom telling Phillip to allow John to die earlier. Meanwhile, Dan invites Tom's sister Alison, whom he is romancing, on a trip. John breaks into Tom's home and the two fight. Despite shooting John several times and pushing him down a flight of stairs, Tom is killed. Tom's wife Nancy finds her husband's body and is killed by John as well. Alison arrives to pick up her gear for the trip and discovers her brother and sister-in-law's corpses, but John flees as Dan and Charlie arrive with the police.

Dan and Charlie take Alison to the institute, unaware that John has also returned there to get Phillip and Paul to treat his wounds. Realizing that the situation is out of control, Phillip leaves to examine samples while Paul attempts to kill John by injecting him with acid. John survives and kills Paul after a brief struggle by stabbing him with the syringe. After finding Paul's body, Phillip returns to his office, where he briefly speaks to John about the success of their experiment. John initially seems to understand Phillip but ultimately snaps his neck. With Dan at the county coroner's office, Charlie and Alison discover John killing another of the institute workers; Charlie attempts to arrest him but is mortally wounded when John breaks his back. Dan returns just in time to discover Charlie dying and protects Alison from John.

Dan shoots John and knocks him out of a window, but John revives and nearly kills Dan. John hangs on to Dan's car as Dan and Allison try to escape and climbs into its back window, forcing them to jump out. The car crashes and explodes, lighting John on fire. This injures him, but he jumps into a nearby lake and quickly recovers. With Alison watching, Dan and John engage in hand-to-hand combat. Both men score blows, but Dan overwhelms John by roundhouse kicking him several times before throwing him into a nearby well, seemingly killing him.  With John's carnage at an end, Dan and Alison leave. However, deep in the well, John suddenly bursts from the water, having survived.

####Skyline (2010 film)####

Jarrod and his wife Elaine arrive in Los Angeles, California for Jarrod's best friend Terry's birthday party. They celebrate with Terry's wife, Candice, and his assistant, Denise. During a private argument about whether or not they should move, Elaine reveals she is pregnant.

The next morning, blue lights descend from the sky, hypnotizing anyone who looks at them. Every hypnotized person becomes zombie-like and immobilized, and are then collected by the light machines. This is the work of several alien ships that descend from the sky. Jarrod is about to be taken when Terry tackles him. The two escape the alien drones and meet up with Elaine.

Back in the condominium, Terry looks for his neighbor Walt so they can all leave in Walt's car. As Terry and Walt are hiding, Walt's dog runs towards the creature. Walt tries to stop it and gets abducted. Jarrod believes the open water would be a safer place, since there are no machines over the sea. They encounter a bickering couple, Colin and Jen, also preparing to flee the building. As Terry's car exits the garage, it is flattened by a massive four-legged alien, killing Denise. Terry escapes, but is abducted as he flees. The trio retreat into the garage. There they encounter another alien lifeform in the shape of a large multi-tentacled squid that corners the rest of the group before the building's concierge, Oliver, slams into it with an SUV. In the ensuing fight, the squid creature sucks out Colin's brain to replace its own brain. Jen joins the group, but is abducted as they run back into the building. The four survivors remain hiding in the condominium.

The next day, the United States Air Force launches an attack against the alien spaceship and flying alien drones using stealth unmanned combat aerial vehicles and conventional drone aircraft. Only one stealth plane pierces the carnage and fires a nuclear missile, hitting the mothership, before it is destroyed. The detonation blows the ship apart. Unfortunately, the aliens survive and the ship slowly begins to repair itself. After Jarrod tells Elaine that the alien light made him feel powerful, he is adamant that safety must be found outside. Oliver wants to stay inside and tries restraining him. Jarrod physically starts changing, lifts Oliver off the floor and vows to protect his family.

A US Navy fleet arrives off the coast, and helicopters land soldiers on nearby rooftops. Jarrod and Elaine go to the roof hoping to catch a ride to safety. Oliver and Candice stay in the condominium but are found when Candice accidentally exposes herself to the light and is abducted by a squid alien, with both being blown up by soldiers on a nearby roof soon after. Afterwards, Oliver attempts to kill a tanker alien by turning on a gas stove and igniting a lighter, causing the room to explode. The soldiers are thrown off the roof by the aliens and a squid alien attacks Jarrod and Elaine. The badly injured Jarrod kills it. The couple accepts their fate, looks into the blue light, and are sucked into the mother ship. The naval vessels off the coast are shown burning and sinking. A brief montage of cities such as London, Las Vegas, Hong Kong and New York City shows that have all succumbed to the invasion and the aliens appear to have won.

Inside the alien ship, Elaine wakes on a pile of human bodies. Tubes are sucking human brains into machines. Probes go through the pile looking for what they can find. Elaine sees Jarrod in the pile but has to watch helplessly as his brain is removed. She is probed and transported to a chamber with other pregnant women. She watches as another pregnant woman has her baby removed and dies. Meanwhile, Jarrod's brain, glowing red, is inserted into a new alien body. Animating the body, Jarrod seems to retain control and comes to the aid of Elaine, who recognizes him when he caresses her belly and her head. He then turns around to confront advancing aliens. In the credits, a series of still images depict "Jarrod" protecting Elaine and their child from the aliens.

####Skylines (film)####

Picking up shortly after the previous film, Rose leads the human fleet against the aliens. Now called 'Harvesters', the aliens are onboard the "Armada", a mother ship in orbit of the Moon. After breaking through the enemy lines, Rose freezes before she can fire and one of her ships is destroyed. With the aliens preparing to fire on Earth, Rose is forced to destroy one of her own ships when it gets into the crossfire. She sacrifices thousands of humans, but succeeds in destroying the "Armada". Wracked with guilt, Rose vanishes while humanity rebuilds, living alongside billions of 'Pilots', freed alien-human hybrids.

Five years after the battle, Rose lives in a tent city near the ruins of London, avoiding resistance forces searching for her and keeping the aging effects of her hybrid nature at bay with the help of hyper-oxygenated blood transfusions prepared by her friend Dr. Mal. A viral pandemic strikes the Pilots and anyone using transplanted Pilot limbs. The virus eats the Pilots alive while reverting them back into their brainwashed state. Resistance leader Leon captures Rose and brings her before General Radford who reveals that the "Armada's" core drive warped to Cobalt One, the Harvester homeworld, before the ship's destruction. Only with the "Armada's" core drive do they have a chance of saving the Pilots. Rose reluctantly agrees to join the mission.

At Cobalt One, the team's ship crashes after a collision that leaves it running on emergency power. The crew of Rose, her Pilot adoptive brother Trent, Leon, Owens and Alexi find the planet filled with the bodies of dead Harvesters. There are also strange shadow creatures that appear to be mutations of the Harvesters. Alexi is heavily wounded and sacrifices herself with a pulse grenade to kill them. The team manages to reach the "Armada" where Rose is briefly possessed by the Harvester Matriarch, who accuses the humans of coming to destroy her species. Trent helps Rose to break free of the Matriarch's control and Rose realizes that the alien's telepathic influence was what caused her to freeze in the war. Now no longer afraid of who she is, Rose embraces her powers and steals the core drive. However, Owens betrays the others, infects Trent with the virus and flees with the core drive.

Rose and Leon later discover that Radford bombed Cobalt One prior to their arrival with a biological weapon, the same virus that is infecting the Pilots on Earth. As the two make their way back aboard the ship, Radford uses the core drive to destroy Cobalt One and the Harvesters in an act of genocide. He reveals to them that the virus was intended to peacefully euthanize the Pilots and destroy the Harvesters, but it had the unintended side effect of reverting the Pilots back into their brainwashed state. Having boarded the ship as well, the Matriarch kills Radford, intending to destroy the Earth in revenge. After realizing the truth about the virus, Owens attacks Zhi, who manages to fight him off. As the ship enters a wormhole, Owens falls into an energy field and is disintegrated. Trent, whom Leon manages to snap back to normal, knocks the Matriarch in as well, but has most of his body disintegrated in the process.

On Earth, Mal works on a cure, but the infected Pilots attack before she can finish testing it. The residents, including Mal, Kate, Grant and Huana, fight back and manage to eliminate the attacking Pilots at the cost of Grant and several others, only to have an army of thousands more approach from London. Arriving back just in the nick of time, Rose sucks all of the Pilots into her ship. With Mal's cure and her ship, they now have the power to cure all of the infected Pilots worldwide.

In the aftermath, Mal transplants Trent's brain into a new Pilot body, saving him. Zhi hacks into Radford's personal files and discovers the location of a prison where Radford had held anyone that he considered to be an enemy of the state, including Rose and Trent's long-missing father Mark Corley. Rose orders a course set for the prison, intending to rescue her adoptive father.

####Soldier (1998 American film)####

In 1996, as part of a new military training program, a group of orphaned infants are selected at birth and raised as highly disciplined soldiers with no understanding of anything but military routine. They are trained to be ruthless professionals, and anyone considered physically or mentally unworthy is executed. The survivors are turned into ultimate fighting machines, but have no understanding of the outside world.

In 2036, Sgt. Todd 3465 is a hardened veteran and one of the original 1996 infants, but his unit is about to be replaced by a superior one, with the original unit likely to be deactivated. Colonel Mekum, leader of the original project, introduces a new group of genetically engineered soldiers, designed with superior physical attributes and a complete lack of emotion, except complete aggression.

Captain Church, the commander of Todd's unit, insists on testing the new soldiers' abilities against his own. One new soldier, Caine 607, easily defeats three of the original soldiers, but Todd gouges out Caine's eye before falling from a great height; the body of a dead soldier cushions his fall, and he is knocked unconscious. Mekum orders their bodies disposed of like garbage, declaring them obsolete, while the remaining older soldiers are demoted to menial support roles.

Dumped on Arcadia 234, a waste disposal planet, Todd limps toward a colony whose residents crash-landed there years earlier; as they were believed dead, no rescue missions have been attempted. Todd is sheltered by Mace and his wife Sandra. Though they try to make him welcome, Todd has difficulty adapting to the community due to his extreme conditioning and their conflict-free lives. While Todd develops a silent rapport with their mute son, Nathan, who had been traumatized by a snakebite as an infant, he soon begins to experience flashbacks from his time as a soldier and mistakes one of the colonists for an enemy, nearly killing him. To make matters worse, in a later conflict with a coiled snake, Todd forces Nathan to face it down and strike back to protect himself. His parents disapprove of the lesson, unsure of how to deal with Todd.

Fearful, the colonists expel Todd from the community. Experiencing strong emotion for the first time, Todd appears confused when he is overcome by loss and cries for the first time. A short time later, Mace and Sandra are almost bitten by a snake while they sleep, but they are saved by Nathan, who uses Todd's technique. Now understanding the value of Todd's lesson, they seek him to reintegrate him into the community, but the others resist.

The new genetically engineered soldiers arrive on the garbage planet, and, since the world is listed as uninhabited, Colonel Mekum decides to use the colonists' community as the target in a training exercise. The soldiers spot Mace and kill him just after he finds Todd. Though out-manned and outgunned, Todd's years of battle experience and superior knowledge of the planet allow him to return to the colony and kill the advance squad. Nervous that an unknown enemy force may be confronting them, Colonel Mekum orders the soldiers to withdraw and return with heavy artillery. Using guerrilla tactics, Todd outmaneuvers and defeats all of the remaining soldiers, including Caine 607, whom he defeats in vicious hand-to-hand combat.

Panicking, Mekum orders the transport ship's crew, composed of Todd's old squad, to set up and activate a portable doomsday device powerful enough to destroy the planet. He orders the ship to lift off, leaving the squad behind. When Captain Church objects, Mekum shoots him in cold blood. Before they can take off as planned, Todd appears, and his old comrades silently side with him over the army that has discarded them, and take over the ship. They leave Mekum and his aides on the planet and evacuate the remaining colonists. In an attempt to disarm the device, Mekum accidentally sets it off, killing him and his aides. Todd pilots the ship from Arcadia just ahead of the shockwave and sets course for the Trinity Moons, the colonists' original destination. He picks up Nathan and points to their new destination, while looking out upon the galaxy.

####Solis (film)####
Troy Holloway, Milton and Lieutenant Harris are astronauts for the Orbis Mining Corporation on "Aten 2024 DEC". After a space mining accident, Milton and Lieutenant Harris are killed. Holloway, a prospector and engineering technician, evacuates aboard the "EEV Khapera 2" with Milton's corpse. Holloway, the lone survivor of the three, awakens and establishes contact with Commander Roberts, the new pilot of "Hathor 18". The "EEV" beacon is down and Holloway is unable to inform "Hathor 18" of his coordinates. Roberts attempts to triangulate the position of the "EEV" using the PLB.

Roberts questions Holloway as to the extent of his medical injuries, which include a concussion. Shortly after, Roberts triangulates the beacon of the "EEV" and discovers Holloway's position. She informs him that the "EEV"'s departure from "DEC" has set him on course for the Sun, a fact which Holloway had already assumed with the Sun visible from the "EEV"s window.

Holloway is informed of the many damaged parts of the "EEV" including temperature control issues and a radiation leak. As Roberts attempts a rescue with "Hathor 18", Holloway makes repairs, sustaining multiple injuries in the process. The window of the "EEV" begins to crack and Holloway soon begins to lose hope. He urges Roberts to turn back and avoid an attempt to rescue him in order to save her life and the life of her fellow crew members. She informs him that she has strict orders from Control to rescue at least one member of "Aten 2024 DEC".

As the "EEV" is propelled closer and closer to the Sun, Holloway continues making repairs, including one on the outside of the ship. As his oxygen levels decrease and he drifts closer to losing consciousness, he once again urges Roberts to turn back due to the risk of both vessels from the Sun, but she refuses to give up on him and tells him not to give up. Holloway informs Roberts that he will be coming through the window of the "EEV" and tells her to pull in front of him. She does so just as his air levels deplete. He says aloud that he is going home and readies himself as the window shatters.

####Solo (1996 film)####
Solo is an android designed as a military killing machine. He is sent to Central America by General Haynes to battle guerrilla insurgents, but a flaw develops in his programming and he develops a conscience and compassion. His developers try to take him back for deprogramming, but he flees to the jungle in a helicopter. His main energy supply was damaged during the first mission, forcing him to switch to his much less powerful secondary power. He joins a small village community that is under constant threat from guerilla attackers, and he protects them in exchange for use of their electric generator (they previously used it to power a television). There he learns to 'bluff' from a child that befriends him, Miguel.

Solo helps the villagers drive off local Warlord Rio and his small army, but the combat is detected by a military satellite. A black ops team is sent to recover or destroy Solo, while they ally with Rio. The highly sadistic black ops leader, Colonel Frank Madden, who has an intense hatred for Solo as he sees Solo renders the Black Ops members like him out of job, brings in Dr. Bill Stewart, Solo's creator, as a lure, leaving the man mortally wounded but Solo survives. Having occupied the village, the militiamen and black ops team attempt to kill Solo, but he manages to kill them.

Rio is betrayed by Madden, who tries to kill Solo with an automatic grenade launcher. Solo is able to fight Madden in hand-to-hand combat and non-fatally break his spine. Suddenly a helicopter delivers a more powerful version of the android, which is armed with a multi-barreled gun and has Madden's face. The MkII kills Madden and proceeds to hunt down Solo. Solo rescues the villagers and destroys the MkII android, using his acquired bluffing skills. After the temple the two androids fought in collapses, causing the military to pull out believing both units are destroyed and unrecoverable, Miguel mourns Solo believing he was destroyed by cave-in, but Miguel starts to hear Solo, laughing, as he knows he has earned his freedom.

####Solo: A Star Wars Story####
####Sonic the Hedgehog (film)####
On a distant planet, Sonic, a young anthropomorphic blue hedgehog who can run at supersonic speed, is unexpectedly attacked by an echidna tribe. His guardian, an anthropomorphic owl named Longclaw, gives him a bag of warp rings that open portals to other planets. She uses one to send him to Earth while she stays behind to hold off the echidnas, leaving Sonic behind.

Ten years later, Sonic enjoys a secret life under the rural town of Green Hills, Montana, but longs to make friends. He idolizes the local sheriff Tom Wachowski and his wife Maddie, unaware the pair are to relocate to San Francisco as Tom plans to accept a post with the SFPD.

One night, Sonic grows upset over his loneliness while playing baseball alone and, while running at high speeds, accidentally triggers an electromagnetic pulse that causes a massive power outage across the Pacific Northwest. The U.S. Department of Defense reluctantly enlists the services of eccentric roboticist and scientific genius Dr. Robotnik to determine the cause. Seeing he is being hunted, Sonic reluctantly plans to leave Earth for a different planet only consisting of fungi. However, Tom discovers Sonic in his shed and tranquilizes him, causing Sonic to accidentally drop his bag of rings through a portal to the Transamerica Pyramid's tower roof, upon reading the writing on Tom's shirt, before passing out. Tom hesitantly agrees to help Sonic and the two flee when confronted by Robotnik, who falsely labels Tom a domestic terrorist. The two slowly bond, with Tom relating to Sonic's desire for friends. Sonic creates a bucket list and Tom helps him complete several entries along their journey.

Meanwhile, Robotnik, discovering that one of Sonic's quills holds an almost limitless amount of electrical energy, plans to capture Sonic to use his powers for his machines. As he tracks them down, Sonic and Tom manage to fight off several mechanized drones sent by Robotnik, but Sonic is injured in the battle.

Arriving in San Francisco, Tom brings Sonic to Maddie, who treats him at her sister Rachel's home. Sonic receives a new pair of red sneakers to replace his ruined ones. The group heads to the roof of the tower and recovers the rings as Robotnik arrives in an advanced attack hovercraft powered by the quill, now decked in a red and pink flight suit and red flight goggles. Sonic fights off Robotnik's drones, hastily using one of his Warp Rings to send Tom and Maddie back to a Green Hills farm to protect them; however, Robotnik uses the quill's power to match Sonic's speed. Sonic fights Robotnik in a chase across the world utilizing the Warp Rings before Robotnik subdues Sonic in Green Hills. Tom and the townsfolk intervene, and Tom acknowledges Sonic as his friend, causing Sonic to regain his power. Sonic takes back his quill's power from Robotnik, weakening Robotnik's hovercraft. Using his powerful spin attack, Sonic obliterates Robotnik's hovercraft and defeats him by banishing him into a warp ring portal to the mushroom planet.

Following the incident, Tom and Maddie decide to stay in Green Hills and let Sonic live with them, treating him as a surrogate son. The government erases all evidence of the events, including records of Robotnik's existence, rewarding Tom and Maddie with an Olive Garden gift card as a small token of gratitude. Three months later, Robotnik is still in possession of Sonic's quill and usable equipment salvaged from the remains of his hovercraft, planning his return and revenge against Sonic, Tom, and Maddie.

In a mid-credits scene, Miles "Tails" Prower emerges from a ring portal on Earth, searching for Sonic.efn|As depicted in "Sonic the Hedgehog 2" (2022)

####Sonic the Hedgehog 2 (film)####
Roughly eight months after defeating Dr. Robotnik,efn|As depicted in "Sonic the Hedgehog" (2020) Sonic attempts to help the public as a vigilante hero with little success. Tom advises Sonic to remain patient for the day his powers will be needed before he and Maddie depart for Rachel's wedding in Hawaii.

Sonic plans to have fun while home alone but is attacked by Robotnik, who has escaped the mushroom planet with the help of a powerful anthropomorphic echidna named Knuckles. To honor his ancestors, Knuckles demands the location of the legendary Master Emerald, an ancient relic that grants its user immense power and the ability to change reality to their will.

Sonic is rescued by Miles "Tails" Prower, an anthropomorphic two-tailed fox who idolizes him and comes to warn him about Knuckles. Sonic convinces Tails to help him find the Master Emerald, while Robotnik reunites with his assistant Stone and, scheming to steal the emerald, offers to help Knuckles. Journeying through a tundra, Sonic and Tails stop at a bar, where they escape by dancing. They follow clues to a Siberian cave on a map Longclaw gave Sonic before sending him to Earth, where they find a compass within a temple. Robotnik and Knuckles track them and chase Sonic and Tails down a mountain. Knuckles reveals that he lost his father and his whole tribe the same day Sonic lost Longclaw. Despite this brief moment of sympathy, Knuckles and Robotnik steal the compass, though Knuckles begins to question Robotnik's sense of loyalty and honor when he mocks Sonic for choosing to save a wounded Tails instead of the compass.

Tom saves Sonic and Tails by using a ring to teleport them to the wedding. Rachel's fiancé Randall and his wedding guests reveal themselves as undercover agents of the Guardian Units of Nations and arrest Sonic, Tails, and Tom, who are then saved by Maddie and a vengeful Rachel, who reconciles with Randall. Meanwhile, Robotnik and Knuckles find an underwater temple containing the Master Emerald.

Blaming himself for Tails' injuries, Sonic decides to face Robotnik and Knuckles alone and goes to the temple, where he fights with Knuckles to keep him from taking the Master Emerald. Seeing this as an opportunity, Robotnik uses the distraction to seize and fuse himself with the emerald, which explodes and sinks the temple into the water. With no use left for Knuckles, Robotnik betrays him and leaves him, along with Sonic, behind for dead. Working together, Sonic and Knuckles are able to escape just as Tails rescues them in a biplane. In Green Hills, Robotnik uses his new abilities to create a giant robot resembling himself. Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles work together to fight the robot and its accompanying drones and to reclaim the Master Emerald; however, it breaks, splitting into the seven Chaos Emeralds. Tom and Maddie save Sonic, who uses the Chaos Emeralds to transform into Super Sonic. He destroys the robot before dispersing the Emeralds and reverting to normal. In the aftermath, Robotnik is presumed dead, and Knuckles fixes the Master Emerald from the remaining shards before making a pact to protect it from evil with Sonic and Tails, and they start an idyllic life with the Wachowskis.


####Source Code####

U.S. Army pilot Captain Colter Stevens wakes up on a Metra commuter train going into Chicago. He is disoriented, as his last memory was of flying a mission in Afghanistan. However, to the world around him – including his friend Christina Warren and his reflection in the train's windows and mirrors – he appears to be a different man: a school teacher named Sean Fentress. As he expresses his confusion to Christina, the train explodes while passing by another train, killing everyone aboard.

Stevens abruptly awakens in a dimly lit cockpit. Communicating through a video screen, Air Force Captain Colleen Goodwin verifies Stevens's identity and tells him of his mission to find the train bomber before sending him back to the moment he awoke on the train. Believing he is being tested in a simulation, Stevens finds the bomb in a vent inside the lavatory but is unable to identify the bomber. Still thinking he’s in a simulation, Stevens leaves the bomb and goes back down to the main cabin before the train explodes again.

Stevens again reawakens in his capsule and after demanding to be briefed, learns that the train explosion actually happened and that it was merely the first attack of a suspected series. He is sent back yet again, eight minutes before the explosion, to identify the bomber. This time, he disembarks the train (with Christina) to follow a suspect. This turns out to be a dead end, the train still explodes in the distance, and Stevens is killed by a passing train after falling onto the tracks while interrogating the suspect.

The capsule power supply malfunctions as Stevens reawakens. He claims to have saved Christina, but Dr. Rutledge tells him that she was saved only inside the "Source Code". Rutledge explains that the Source Code is an experimental machine that reconstructs the past using the dead passengers' residual collective memories of eight minutes before their deaths. Therefore, the only thing that matters is finding the bomber to prevent the upcoming second attack in Chicago.

On his next run-in, Stevens learns that he was reported as killed in action two months earlier. He confronts Goodwin, who reveals that he is missing most of his body, is on life support, and is hooked up to neural sensors. The capsule and his healthy body are "manifestations" made by his mind to make sense of the environment. Stevens is angry at this forced imprisonment. Rutledge offers to terminate him after the mission, and Stevens eventually accepts.

After numerous attempts, including being arrested by train security for trying to obtain a weapon, Stevens identifies the bomber through a fallen wallet, nihilistic domestic terrorist Derek Frost. He memorizes Frost's license and vehicle registration plates. Discovering a dirty bomb built inside a van owned by Frost, as Christina follows him, both are shot dead by Frost.

Outside Source Code, Stevens relays his knowledge to Goodwin, which helps the police arrest Frost and prevents the second attack. He is congratulated for completing his mission. Rutledge secretly reneges on his deal to let Stevens die, as he is still the only candidate able to enter Source Code.

Being more sympathetic to his plight, Goodwin sends Stevens back one last time and promises to disconnect his life support after eight minutes. This time, he sets a date with Christina, defuses the bomb, apprehends Frost, and reports him to the police. He calls his father under the guise of a fellow soldier and reconciles with him, and sends Goodwin an email. After eight minutes, Goodwin terminates Stevens's life support.

As the world around him continues to progress beyond eight minutes, Stevens confirms his suspicion that Source Code is not merely a simulation, but rather a machine that allows him to create alternate timelines. He and Christina leave the train and go on a date. In the same (alternate) reality, Goodwin receives Stevens's message. He tells her of Source Code's true capability and asks her to help the alternate-reality version of him.

####Space Cop####
####Space Marines (film)####
In the future, space has been colonized. As humanity expanded, the Marine Corps became the Space Force. Colonel Fraser (John Pyper-Ferguson), a former Marine officer who has become a pirate, has his pirates hijack a new synthetic explosive. Light and concealable, it is the perfect improvised explosive device. He takes hostages at a local colony to draw out an Earth negotiator (James Shigeta), who is escorted by a Marine fire team under the command of Captain 'Gray Wolf' Gray (Edward Albert). He then takes him hostage on his ship, as well as the Sergeant in charge of the security detail. After a short space chase, he arrives with demands for gold in exchange for the negotiator's life. Colonel Fraser is killed by a new recruit, who shoots him through his own torso, killing them both in the process.

####Space Mutiny####
####Space Probe Taurus####
In the late 20th century, when manned missions to outer space have become routine, a distress call from the spaceship "Faith One" requests its immediate destruction. It has been contaminated by an infectious gas, leaving all crew dead except for its commander (Bob Legionaire). The mission is aborted and the spaceship is destroyed.

By 2000, a new propulsion technology has been developed. Four astronauts aboard the spaceship "Hope One" set off to find new planets for colonization. Their mission takes them past a space platform circling Earth. General Mark Tillman (James Macklin) at Earth Control HQ tells a TV reporter (John Willis) that all is going according to the pre-flight plan.

The crew of gravity-controlled "Hope One" consists of the pilot/commanding officer, Colonel Hank Stevens (James Brown), and three scientists: Dr. John Andros (Baynes Barron), Dr. Paul Martin (Russ Bender), and Dr. Lisa Wayne (Francine York). It is quickly revealed that Stevens did not want a woman on the mission, but he is stuck with Dr. Wayne anyway.

Not long into their voyage, "Hope One" comes upon an unknown spacecraft. Earth Control instructs them to investigate and they encounter a grotesque alien. The alien attacks Dr. Andros, forcing Stevens to shoot and kill it. Then, radiation levels rise on the alien spacecraft, so Stevens sets a bomb to blow it up.

After a fiery meteorite storm leads to an emergency landing in the ocean of an Earth-like escaped moon, Tillman takes time to apologize to Wayne for his sexist remarks, which results in a quick reconciliation and a more-than-friendly kiss. While repairs continue, giant crabs take an interest in the spaceship. The crew decides to test the atmosphere to see if it contains breathable air, which it does. Then, Andros volunteers to go scout the nearest land mass. A sea monster almost intercepts him, but the scientist reaches shore, while his comrades continue repairs and worry about him. Upon his return, Andros is again attacked by the sea monster and, after making it back safely to the spaceship, perishes after confirming that the planet can support human life and plants can grow. The crew confirms this to Earth, names the planet Andros One, and rockets back safely to Earth.

####Space Raiders (film)####
####Special (film)####
Comic book fan Les Franken (Michael Rapaport) signs up for an experimental antidepressant. Dr. Dobson (Jack Kehler) instructs him to take one pill per day. Les creates a diary for his experiences but feels no results. His lack of self-assurance keeps him from getting to know Maggie (Alexandra Holden), a quiet girl who works at a grocery store.

After several days of taking the pill, Les experiences supernatural powers, beginning with the ability to float. Paying a visit to Dobson, he sees himself floating, but Dobson sees him lying on the floor; Les has no powers at all. He explains that Les is having an adverse psychotic reaction to the drug and orders him to stop taking it. Les instead convinces himself that he has telepathy and Dobson is mentally telling him to continue taking the drug.

Gaining self-confidence, Les quits his job in order to become a crime-fighting vigilante. He gains a reputation for tackling people after stopping a gunman from robbing Maggie's store, believing he is picking up telepathic intent from would-be perpetrators. He confides his new gifts to best friends Joey (Josh Peck) and Everett (Robert Baker). Their initial reaction to his supposed ability to walk through walls is curiously ambiguous. The viewer only sees what Les believes he is doing rather than what his two friends actually witness. Les offers his services to the police but has to flee when he is recognized as the mystery "crime fighter".

After Dobson learns that Les is still taking the drug and getting worse, he calls on two representatives, Ted (Ian Bohen) and Jonas (Paul Blackthorne), to talk Les out of taking the drugs. Les believes they are there to take his powers away (as he is confronted by an alternate version of himself "from a future that will now never exist"), so his "future self" stabs Jonas in the ear and Les runs off with Ted in pursuit on foot. Les "teleports" behind Ted and knocks him out and then escapes again. Just how he actually accomplishes this highly improbable sneak attack is left for the viewer to grapple with. Les then joins Everett and Joey who believe "the suits" are just as much of an hallucination as everything else.

On the way to meeting with Dobson, Les astounds his two friends by stopping a purse snatcher. Dobson claims never to have met Les before but gives the two friends a liquid to flush the medication from Les's body. Les leaves all three and finds that Jonas and Ted have broken into his apartment and are reading through his diary, talking about kidnapping him for a few days for the drug to work its way out of his system.

Dobson confesses that Les's reaction could ruin the company if the word got out. While Dobson explains that he himself was only attempting to preserve his own career and life, Les takes the opportunity to swallow the remaining pills. After Les leaves and makes Ted and Jonas "disappear", the now-invisible pair beat Les to a pulp and utterly humiliate him in the process. With an unbelievable effort of sheer willpower, Les turns the tables and knocks both men unconscious. Realizing that he is losing his mind, he runs to Maggie for help. She reveals that she likes him but has been reluctant to speak to him because of a stutter. Les admits to liking her and requests to be locked up in the restroom until the drug leaves his system.

Les awakens the following morning to find he cannot float. As Les is walking home Jonas runs him down with his car. Jonas is about to leave Les for dead when, incredibly, Les raises himself up off of the asphalt and stands defiantly there in the middle of the street. Jonas angrily backs the car into Les and sends him flying over the roof again, presumably finishing him off. This is too much for Ted and he flees the scene on foot. But Les won't stay down. In yet another fantastic feat of willpower, Les drags himself up onto his feet and faces-off with Jonas's car. Jonas intends to run Les down once and for all, but, faced with Les's unbreakable spirit, his rage drains away.  Les turns and hobbles off, a smile spreading across his bruised face.

####Species (film)####
During the SETI program, Earth's scientists send out transmissions (shown to be the Arecibo message) with information about Earth and its inhabitants, DNA structure, etc., in hopes of finding life beyond Earth. They then receive transmissions from an alien source on how to create endless fuel effortlessly. Therefore, the scientists assume that this is a friendly alien species. From a second alien transmission, the scientists receive information about an alien DNA along with instructions on how to splice it with human DNA. A government team led by Xavier Fitch goes forward with the genetic experiment attempting to induce a female, under the (later proved to be mistaken) assumption that a female would have "more docile and controllable" traits. One of the hundred experimental ova produces a girl named Sil, who looks like a normal human but develops into a 12-year-old in 3 months.

Sil's violent outbursts during sleep make the scientists consider her a threat. One day they try to kill her using cyanide gas, but she breaks out of her containment cell and escapes. The government assembles a team composed of anthropologist Dr. Stephen Arden, molecular biologist Dr. Laura Baker, "empath" Dan Smithson and mercenary Preston "Press" Lennox to track and destroy Sil. Sil matures rapidly into an adult in her early twenties and makes her way to Los Angeles. Her body strength, regenerative ability and intelligence make tracking her extremely difficult. The scientists fear she may mate with human males and produce offspring that could eventually eliminate the human race. Sil is intent on producing offspring as soon as possible, and kills several people to prevent them from notifying the authorities or simply to use their clothing.

She first tries to mate with Robbie, but after sensing that he is diabetic, she rejects him. Unsatisfied, he tries to assault her, prompting her to kill him by puncturing through his pharynx with her tongue. Later she tries to mate with John Carey, a man she meets after a car accident. They swim in Carey's hottub where Sil forces him to open his swimming trunks in order to mate, but he refuses. This act is interrupted by Preston and Laura. She soon kills Carey, morphing into her alien form, a bipedal mutant with tentacles on her shoulders and back, and flees naked into a forest without being seen by the team. She pretends to be a rape victim to kidnap a woman in order to assume her identity. Sitting in the car near Carey's home, she reads Fitch's lips, as she had done earlier, learning of their plan to stake out the nightclub for her return. There, she is seen by Dan, prompting a car chase. She fakes her death by crashing the car, which she has previously filled with gasoline containers, into a high-voltage transformer, using the kidnapped woman as a stand-in for her own body.

After cutting and dyeing her hair, Sil takes an attraction to Preston, having dreamt of him the previous night. After the team celebrates their apparent victory, she stalks them in their hotel, and they do not recognize her. Arden, who is upset at being alone, walks into his room to find Sil waiting there. She has intercourse with Arden, which results in her instantly getting impregnated by him, then kills him when he realizes who she is. Dan senses that Sil is in the hotel and he alerts Preston, Laura, and the rest of the team. She morphs again, escapes and they follow her into the sewers where Fitch is subsequently killed. Sil gives birth, and Dan finds her offspring in a cavern behind the sewers. The child morphs into alien form and attacks him and he incinerates it. Preston blows off Sil's head with a shotgun. The trio leaves the area. The last scene shows a rat chewing on one of Sil's severed tentacles; it starts to mutate into a vicious beast and devours another rat.

####Spectral####
####Spider-Man (2002 film)####

On a school trip, high-school senior Peter Parker visits a Columbia University genetics laboratory with his friend Harry Osborn and his love interest Mary Jane Watson. There, a genetically engineered "super-spider" bites him, and he falls ill upon returning home. Meanwhile, Harry's father Norman Osborn, a scientist and the founder and owner of Oscorp, tries to secure an important military contract. He experiments on himself with an unstable performance-enhancing chemical and goes insane, killing his assistant.

The next day, Peter finds he is no longer near-sighted and has developed spider-like abilities: he can shoot webs out of his wrists and has quick reflexes, superhuman speed and strength, and a heightened ability to sense danger. Brushing off his Uncle Ben's advice that "with great power comes great responsibility", Peter considers buying a car to impress Mary Jane. He enters an underground wrestling event to win the money for it and wins his first match, but the promoter cheats him out of his earnings. When a thief robs the promoter's office, Peter allows him to escape. Moments later, he discovers Ben was carjacked and killed. Peter pursues the carjacker, only to find out it was the thief he let escape. The thief attempts to flee but dies after falling out a window. Meanwhile, a crazed Norman interrupts a product test by Oscorp's rival Quest Aerospace and kills several people.

Upon graduating, Peter begins using his abilities to fight injustice, donning a spandex costume and the masked persona of Spider-Man. J. Jonah Jameson, publisher of the "Daily Bugle" newspaper, hires Peter as a freelance photographer, since he is the only person providing clear images of Spider-Man. Upon discovering that Oscorp's board plans to oust him to sell the company to Quest, Norman assassinates them. Jameson dubs the mysterious killer the "Green Goblin."

The Goblin offers Peter a place at his side, but he refuses. They fight, and Peter is wounded. At Thanksgiving dinner, Peter's Aunt May invites Mary Jane, Harry, and Norman. During the dinner, Norman sees the wound and realizes Peter's identity. Thinking the only way to defeat Peter is to attack those special to him, Norman later attacks May, forcing her to be hospitalized. While visiting Aunt May at the hospital, Mary Jane admits her infatuation with Spider-Man, who has rescued her on two occasions. Harry, who is dating Mary Jane, sees her holding Peter's hand and assumes she has feelings for him. Devastated, Harry tells his father that Peter loves Mary Jane, unknowingly revealing Spider-Man's biggest weakness.

Norman holds Mary Jane and a Roosevelt Island Tram car full of children hostage alongside the Queensboro Bridge. He forces Peter to choose whom he wants to save and drops them both. Peter saves both Mary Jane and the tram car. Norman then throws him into a nearby abandoned building and brutally beats him. Peter gains the upper hand, and Norman reveals himself and begs for forgiveness while subtly getting his glider ready to impale Peter from behind. Warned by his spider-sense, Peter dodges the attack, and the glider impales Norman instead. Norman tells Peter not to reveal his identity as the Goblin to Harry before dying. Peter takes Norman's body to the Osborn house and is confronted by Harry, who pulls a gun on him, but Peter escapes.

At Norman's funeral, Harry swears vengeance on Spider-Man, whom he falsely holds responsible for his father's death. Mary Jane confesses to Peter that she loves him. Peter, however, feels he must protect her from the unwanted attention of his enemies, so he hides his true feelings and tells Mary Jane that they can only be friends. As Peter leaves, he recalls Ben's words and accepts his new responsibility as Spider-Man.

####Spider-Man: Far From Home####
####Spider-Man: Homecoming####
####Spider-Man: No Way Home####
####Split Second (1992 film)####
In the year 2008, global warming and heavy rainfall has left large areas of London flooded. Rookie police officer Dick Durkin is assigned to partner with Harley Stone, a burnt-out and cynical veteran homicide detective who, according to his commanding officer, survives on "anxiety, coffee, and chocolate" after being wounded while failing to prevent the death of his partner Foster by a serial killer three years previously. Now, the murders have begun again and Stone is obsessed with the case. An Oxford-educated psychologist, Durkin is ordered to stick with Stone at all times and report any unstable behavior. After investigating the scenes of several killings, they appear no closer to identifying the killer, although Stone seems to share some sort of psychic connection with him. Their only clues are that the murders seem to be linked with the lunar cycle, and that the killer takes an organ from each victim, apparently to eat them. Lab analysis of blood left during one encounter shows that the killer possesses multiple recombinant DNA strands, somehow having absorbed the DNA of its victims. Complicating matters is the return of Michelle, Foster's wife with whom Stone had an affair.

While attempting to figure out the killer's motives and pattern, Stone and Durkin begin to bond as Durkin loosens up and starts to understand Stone. Durkin hypothesizes that the killer is taunting Stone personally, following him and then killing someone at each location; Stone acquired a psychic link with the killer via the wound it dealt him. The killer then attacks a woman in Stone's apartment building, afterward kidnapping Michelle while the two detectives are downstairs. They track the killer deep into the flooded tunnels of the London Underground subway system and discover the truth: the killer is not human but a large, horrific and possibly demonic creature that is fast, savage, and bloodthirsty. Durkin figures out that Stone escaped from it ten years ago, and it is now fixated upon killing Stone, just as it previously killed Foster; each killing and "appearance" of the monster is an attempt to lure Stone closer and closer.

Finally, learning where the creature makes its lair, Stone and Durkin head to the area, armed to the teeth and relying on Stone to find the monster just as it always finds him. They emerge into an abandoned underground train station to find Michelle suspended over the water as obvious bait, but Stone frees her anyway, prompting the creature to show up. During the fight, Durkin wounds the creature's chest, allowing Stone to pull the monster's heart out and kill it. However, as the three of them leave the station, bubbles of air are seen breaking the surface of the water, suggesting that there may be more than one monster.

####Spoiler (film)####
####Star Raiders: The Adventures of Saber Raine####
A prince and princess are abducted from their planet. Saber Raine, a soldier of fortune is hired to bring them back. Along with three others, he embarks on the mission. They end up on a planet in the depths of space which is run by an evil overlord called Sinjin. Having been freed from centuries of containment in a cryogenic prison, Sinjin is now teaming up with beings called the Quintari who have caused havoc throughout the galaxy. Sinjin has a plan of revenge against his betrayers' descendants and he has a powerful weapon.

####Star Trek (film)####

In 2233, the Federation starship USS "Kelvin" investigates a "lightning storm" in space. A Romulan ship, "Narada", emerges from the storm and attacks the "Kelvin", then demands that "Kelvin"'s Captain Robau come aboard to negotiate a truce. Robau is questioned about the current stardate and an "Ambassador Spock", whom he does not recognize. "Narada"'s commander, Nero, kills him, and resumes attacking the "Kelvin". George Kirk, "Kelvin"'s first officer, orders the ship's personnel, including his pregnant wife Winona<!-- Kirk-->, to abandon ship while he pilots the "Kelvin" on a collision course with "Narada". Kirk sacrifices his life to ensure Winona's survival as she gives birth to James Tiberius Kirk.

Seventeen years later on the planet Vulcan, a young Spock is admitted to the Vulcan Science Academy. Realizing that the Academy views his human mother, Amanda, as a "disadvantage", he joins Starfleet instead. On Earth, Kirk becomes a reckless but intelligent adult. Following a bar fight with Starfleet cadets accompanying Nyota Uhura, Kirk meets Captain Christopher Pike, who encourages him to enlist in Starfleet Academy, where Kirk meets and befriends doctor Leonard McCoy. Three years later, Commander Spock accuses Kirk of cheating during the "Kobayashi Maru" simulation. Kirk argues that cheating was acceptable because the simulation was designed to be unbeatable. The disciplinary hearing is interrupted by a distress signal from Vulcan. With the primary fleet out of range, the cadets are mobilized. McCoy and Kirk board Pike's ship, the USS|Enterprise|NCC-1701|2.

Realizing that the "lightning storm" observed near Vulcan is similar to the one that occurred when he was born, Kirk convinces Pike that the distress signal is a trap. When the "Enterprise" arrives, they find the fleet destroyed and "Narada" drilling into Vulcan's core. "Narada" attacks "Enterprise" and Pike surrenders, delegating command of the ship to Spock and promoting Kirk to first officer. Kirk, Hikaru Sulu, and Chief Engineer Olson perform a space jump onto the drilling platform. While Olson is killed mid-jump, Kirk and Sulu disable the drill, but are unable to stop Nero launching "red matter" into Vulcan's core, forming an artificial black hole that destroys Vulcan. The "Enterprise" rescues Spock's father, Sarek, and the high council before the planet's destruction, but Amanda falls to her death before the transporter can lock onto her. As "Narada" approaches Earth, Nero tortures Pike to gain access to Earth's defense codes.

Spock maroons Kirk on Delta Vega after he attempts mutiny. On the planet, Kirk encounters an older Spock from an alternate timeline, who explains that he and Nero are from 2387. In the future, Romulus was threatened by a supernova, which Spock attempted to stop with red matter. His plan failed, resulting in Nero's family perishing along with Romulus, while the "Narada" and Spock's vessel were caught in the black hole and sent back in time. They were sent back 25 years apart, during which time Nero attacked the "Kelvin", changing history and creating a parallel universe. After Spock's arrival, Nero stranded him on Delta Vega to watch Vulcan's destruction. Reaching a Starfleet outpost, Kirk and the elder Spock meet Montgomery "Scotty" Scott, who devises a trans-warp transporter system, allowing him and Kirk to beam onto "Enterprise".

Following the elder Spock's advice, Kirk provokes younger Spock into attacking him, forcing Spock to recognize himself as emotionally compromised and relinquish command to Kirk. After talking with Sarek, Spock decides to help Kirk. While "Enterprise" hides within the gas clouds of Titan, Kirk and Spock beam aboard "Narada". Kirk fights Nero and rescues Pike, while Spock uses the elder Spock's ship to destroy the drill. Spock leads "Narada" away from Earth and sets his ship to collide with "Narada". "Enterprise" beams Kirk, Pike, and Spock aboard. The older Spock's ship and "Narada" collide, igniting the red matter. "Narada" is consumed in a black hole that "Enterprise" barely escapes.

Kirk is promoted to captain and given command of "Enterprise", while Pike is promoted to rear admiral. Spock encounters his older self, who persuades his younger self to continue serving in Starfleet, encouraging him to do what feels right rather than what is logical. Spock becomes first officer under Kirk's command. "Enterprise" goes to warp as the elder Spock speaks the "where no one has gone before" monologue.

####Star Trek III: The Search for Spock####
The Federation starship USS|Enterprise|NCC-1701|2 returns to Earth following a battle with the superhuman Khan Noonien Singh, who tried to destroy the "Enterprise" by detonating an experimental terraforming device known as Genesis. The casualties of the fight include Admiral James T. Kirk's Vulcan friend, Spock, whose casket was launched into space and eventually landed on the planet created by the Genesis Device. Upon arriving at Earth Spacedock, Doctor Leonard McCoy begins to act strangely and is detained. The commander of Starfleet, Admiral Morrow, visits the "Enterprise" and informs the crew the ship is to be decommissioned; the crew is instructed not to speak about Genesis due to political fallout over the device.

David Marcus (Merritt Butrick)—Kirk's son and a key scientist in Genesis's development—and Lieutenant Saavik (Robin Curtis) are investigating the Genesis planet from aboard the science vessel "Grissom". Discovering an unexpected life form on the surface, Marcus and Saavik transport to the planet. They find that the Genesis Device has resurrected Spock in the form of a child, although his mind is not present. Marcus admits that he used unstable "protomatter" in the development of the Genesis Device, causing Spock to age rapidly and meaning the planet will be destroyed within hours. Meanwhile, Kruge (Christopher Lloyd), the commander of a Klingon Bird of Prey, intercepts information about Genesis. Recognizing the device's potential as a weapon, he takes his cloaked ship to the Genesis planet, destroys the "Grissom", and searches the planet for survivors.

Spock's father, Sarek (Mark Lenard), confronts Kirk about his son's death. The pair learn that before he died, Spock transferred his "katra", or living spirit, to McCoy. Spock's "katra" and body are needed to lay him to rest on his homeworld, Vulcan, and without help, McCoy will die from carrying it. Disobeying orders, Kirk and his officers spring McCoy from detention, disable the USS "Excelsior", and steal the "Enterprise" from Spacedock to return to the Genesis planet to retrieve Spock's body.

On Genesis, the Klingons capture Marcus, Saavik, and Spock, and before Kruge can interrogate them, their ship signals that the "Enterprise" has arrived. Kruge beams back to the Bird of Prey.

In orbit, the undermanned "Enterprise" initially gains the upper hand in battle, but the Klingons return fire and disable the ship. In the standoff that follows, Kruge orders that one of the hostages on the surface be executed. Marcus is killed defending Saavik and Spock. Kirk and company feign surrender and activate the "Enterprise"'s self-destruct sequence, killing the Klingon boarding party while the "Enterprise" crew transports to the planet's surface. Promising the secret of Genesis, Kirk lures Kruge to the planet and has Kruge beam Kirk's crew to the Klingon vessel. As the Genesis planet disintegrates, Kirk and Kruge engage in a fistfight; Kirk emerges victorious after kicking Kruge off a cliff into a lava flow. Kirk and his officers take control of the Klingon ship and head to Vulcan.

There, Spock's "katra" is reunited with his body in a dangerous procedure called "fal-tor-pan". The ceremony is successful and Spock is resurrected, alive and well, though his memories are fragmented. At Kirk's prompting, Spock recalls he would refer to Kirk as "Jim" and recognizes the crew as well. His friends joyfully gather around him.<ref name="rioux-257"/>

####Star Trek V: The Final Frontier####
The crew of the newly commissioned USS|Enterprise|NCC-1701-A are enjoying shore leave after the starship's shakedown cruise, with Kirk, Spock, and McCoy camping at Yosemite National Park. Their leave is interrupted when the "Enterprise" is ordered by Starfleet Command to rescue a human, a Klingon, and a Romulan, all diplomats who have been taken hostage on Nimbus III, a planet set aside as a neutral location to advance dialogue between the Federation, Klingon Empire, and Romulan Star Empire. Learning of the "Enterprise"'s mission, the ambitious Klingon Captain Klaa decides to pursue Kirk for personal glory.

On Nimbus III, the "Enterprise" crew discovers that Sybok, a renegade Vulcan, is behind the hostage crisis, prompting Spock to admit that Sybok is his previously unmentioned half-brother. After the Enterprise crew saves the hostages, Sybok reveals that the hostage-taking was a ruse to lure a starship, which he plans to use to travel to the mythical planet Sha Ka Ree. Sybok believes that it lies behind the Great Barrier, a powerful energy field at the center of the galaxy, and that God is located there. To take control of the ship, Sybok uses his ability to reveal and heal the innermost pain of a person through the Vulcan mind meld, thus gaining the loyalty of most of the crew. McCoy's pain is that he had helped fulfill his terminally ill father's request to die only to later find that a cure could have saved his father's life, which has caused him years of guilt. Spock's pain is the knowledge that his father rejected him at birth for being "too human", though he is unmoved by the experience since he had since made peace with his father. Kirk refuses to let Sybok remove his pain, claiming that it is necessary to make him human. Sybok reluctantly declares a truce with Kirk, realizing that he needs his experience to navigate the ship to Sha Ka Ree.

The "Enterprise" successfully breaches the Great Barrier, unaware that they are being followed by Captain Klaa's warship, a Klingon bird-of-prey. They discover a lone barren planet, and Sybok, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy take a shuttlecraft down to the surface. It seems uninhabited, but after Sybok calls out, a glowing field appears which quickly morphs through many forms representing various religions before settling into the image of a bearded human face, to which Sybok explains that they have come for "your wisdom". The entity asks how they breached the barrier, and upon being told about the "Enterprise", it declares that it will make use of the ship to carry its wisdom to every corner of the universe. A skeptical Kirk asks, "What does God need with a starship?", and when the entity asks who he is, Kirk expresses doubt that the actual supreme being would not already know. Irritated, the entity attacks him and then Spock as well, and they discover that it is a powerful and malicious being who had been entrapped to Sha Ka Ree in the distant past, with the Great Barrier put in place to keep it from escaping.

Realizing his earlier naiveté, Sybok apologizes and attempts to distract the entity with a mind-meld, allowing the others the opportunity to escape. Kirk orders the "Enterprise" to fire a barrage of photon torpedos, but while Sybok is killed, the entity is only weakened. Spock and McCoy beam back to the ship right before the Klingon ship unexpectedly attacks and damages the "Enterprise", stranding Kirk on the planet with the weakened and enraged entity. Right as he is about to be killed, the Klingon Bird of Prey swoops down and destroys the entity with a volley of disruptor fire.  Kirk is beamed aboard the Klingon ship where Spock is unexpectedly waiting. As Spock explains, he convinced the Klingon General Korrd (one of Sybok's hostages who had become a loyal follower) to order Captain Klaa to stand down and apologize for his actions, which Klaa grudgingly does. After returning to Earth, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy resume their camping trip at Yosemite.

####Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country####
thu
In 2293, the starship USS "Excelsior", commanded by Captain Hikaru Sulu, discovers that the Klingon moon of Praxis has been destroyed in a mining accident. The loss of Praxis and the subsequent destruction of the Klingon homeworld's ozone layer throws the Klingon Empire into turmoil. The Klingons can no longer afford war with the United Federation of Planets, so they pursue peace. Starfleet sends the USS "Enterprise"-A to meet with the Klingon Chancellor Gorkon and escort him to negotiations on Earth. Captain James T. Kirk, whose son David was murdered by Klingons, opposes conciliation and resents the assignment.

"Enterprise" and Gorkon's battlecruiser rendezvous and continue towards Earth, with the two command crews sharing a tense meal aboard "Enterprise". Later that night, "Enterprise" appears to fire torpedoes at the Klingon ship, disabling its artificial gravity. During the confusion, two men wearing Starfleet spacesuits beam aboard the Klingon ship, kill two Klingon crew and mortally wound Gorkon before escaping. Kirk surrenders to avoid armed conflict and beams aboard the Klingon ship with Doctor Leonard McCoy in an attempt to save Gorkon's life. The chancellor dies, and Gorkon's chief of staff, General Chang, arrests and tries Kirk and McCoy for his assassination. The pair are found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment on the frozen planetoid Rura Penthe. Gorkon's daughter Azetbur becomes the new chancellor, and continues diplomatic negotiations; for the sake of security, the conference is relocated and the new location is kept secret. While several senior Starfleet officers want to rescue Kirk and McCoy, the Federation President refuses to risk full-scale war, even if the Federation stands a good chance of winning.<!-- source: Director's Cut --> Azetbur likewise refuses to invade Federation space.

Kirk and McCoy arrive at the Rura Penthe mines and are befriended by a shapeshifter named Martia, who offers them an escape route; in reality, it is a ruse to make their arranged deaths appear accidental. Once her betrayal is revealed, Martia transforms into Kirk's double and fights him, but is killed by the prison guards to silence any witnesses. Kirk and McCoy are beamed aboard "Enterprise" by Captain Spock, who had assumed command and undertaken an investigation in Kirk's absence. Determining that "Enterprise" did not fire the torpedoes and that the assassins are still aboard, the crew has begun a search for them. The two assassins are found dead, killed by yet another unknown accomplice. To bait the third accomplice, Kirk and Spock announce to the ship that the assassins are still alive and will be interrogated. When the culprit arrives in sick bay to finish them off, Kirk and Spock discover that the killer is Spock's protégé, Valeris. To discover the identity of the other conspirators, Spock initiates a forced mind-meld, and learns that a cabal of Federation, Klingon, and Romulan officers conspired to sabotage the peace talks. The torpedoes that struck Gorkon's cruiser came from Chang's ship which has the unique ability to fire its weapons while cloaked.

"Enterprise" and "Excelsior" race to Khitomer, the location of the peace talks. Chang's cloaked ship attacks and inflicts heavy damage on both ships. At the suggestion of Uhura, Spock and McCoy modify a torpedo to home in on the exhaust emissions of Chang's ship. The torpedo impact reveals Chang's location, and "Enterprise" and "Excelsior" destroy his ship with a volley of torpedoes. The crew from both ships beam to the conference and thwart an attempt on the Federation President's life.

Starfleet Command orders "Enterprise" to return to Earth to be decommissioned. Kirk decides to take his ship on one last cruise and notes in his log that a new ship and crew will carry on their legacy.

####Star Trek Generations####
In 2293, retired Starfleet officers James T. Kirk, Montgomery Scott, and Pavel Chekov attend the maiden voyage of the USS "Enterprise"-B. During the shakedown cruise, the starship is pressed into a rescue mission to save two El-Aurian refugee ships that have been snared by a massive energy ribbon. The "Enterprise" is able to save some of the refugees before their ships are destroyed, but becomes trapped by the ribbon, and Kirk goes to a control room to help the ship escape. While the "Enterprise" is freed, Kirk is presumed lost in space and dead after the trailing end of the ribbon tears open the ship's hull.

In 2371, the crew of the USS "Enterprise"-D is in a holodeck computer simulation, celebrating the promotion of shipmate Worf to lieutenant commander. Captain Jean-Luc Picard learns his brother and nephew have been killed in a fire and is distraught that the Picard family line will end with him. The "Enterprise" receives a distress call from a stellar observatory, where an El-Aurian, Dr. Tolian Soran, launches a probe at the nearby star. The probe causes the star to implode, creating a shockwave that destroys its planetary system. Soran kidnaps "Enterprise" engineer Geordi La Forge and is transported off the station by a Klingon Bird of Prey belonging to the Duras sisters.

"Enterprise" crewmember Guinan tells Picard that she and Soran were among the El-Aurians rescued in 2293. Soran—who lost his family when their homeworld was destroyed—is obsessed with returning to the energy ribbon to reach the "Nexus," an extra-dimensional realm of wish fulfillment that exists outside of normal space-time. Picard and Data determine that Soran, unable to fly a ship directly into the ribbon, is altering its path by removing the gravitational effects of nearby stars. Soran plans to destroy another star to bring the ribbon to Soran on the planet Veridian III, consequently killing millions on a nearby inhabited planet.

Upon entering the Veridian system, Picard offers himself to the Duras sisters in exchange for La Forge, but insists on being transported to Soran directly. La Forge is returned to the "Enterprise", but unwittingly exposes the ship's defense details through the transmitter installed in his VISOR device. The Duras sisters attack, and the "Enterprise" sustains critical damage before destroying the Bird of Prey by triggering their cloaking device and firing photon torpedoes. When La Forge reports that the starship is about to suffer a warp-core breach as a result of the attack, Commander William Riker evacuates everyone to the forward saucer-section of the starship, which separates from the engineering section just before the breach occurs. The resulting shockwave sends the saucer-section crashing onto the surface of Veridian III.

Picard fails to stop Soran, as Soran succeeds in launching another probe into the Veridian system's star, resulting in a similar shockwave to the one that destroyed the observatory. The destruction of the Veridian star and the disappearance of its gravitational force alters the course of the ribbon. The shockwave causes the destruction of Veridian III and the "Enterprise" and its crew, but not before Soran and Picard enter the Nexus, and Picard finds himself surrounded by an idealized family, but realizes it is an illusion. He is confronted by an "echo" of Guinan left behind in the Nexus. Guinan sends him to meet James T. Kirk, safe in the Nexus. Though Kirk is initially entranced by the opportunity to atone for past regrets, he realizes it lacks danger and excitement. Having learned that they can travel whenever and wherever desired through the Nexus, Picard convinces Kirk to return with him to Veridian III, shortly before Soran launches the probe.

Working together, Kirk and Picard distract Soran long enough for Picard to lock the probe in place; it explodes on the launchpad and kills Soran. Kirk is fatally injured in the effort and, after he dies, Picard buries him on the mountain with his "captain" badge. Three Federation starships arrive to retrieve the "Enterprise" survivors from Veridian III. Picard muses that given the ship's legacy, the "Enterprise"-D will not be the last vessel to carry the name.

####Star Trek Beyond####

The Federation starship USS "Enterprise" arrives at starbase "Yorktown", for resupply and shore leave for its crew. Struggling to find meaning in their exploration, Captain James T. Kirk has applied for a promotion to vice admiral; he recommends Spock as his replacement. Meanwhile, Hikaru Sulu reunites with his family, Montgomery Scott works to keep the ship operational, and Spock and Nyota Uhura have ended their relationship; Spock also receives word from New Vulcan that Ambassador Spock has died.

"Enterprise" is dispatched on a rescue mission after an escape pod drifts out of a nearby uncharted nebula. Its occupant, Kalara, claims her ship is stranded on Altamid, a planet in the nebula. Upon arrival, a massive swarm of small ships ambushes the "Enterprise" and quickly begins to tear it apart. The swarm's leader, Krall, and his crew board the crippled "Enterprise", capture and kill many crew members, and attempt to capture the Abronath, a relic recovered during a recent mission. Kirk orders the crew to abandon ship, leaving the disintegrating "Enterprise" saucer section to crash on Altamid.

On the planet, Krall captures Sulu, Uhura, and other survivors. Kirk and Pavel Chekov, accompanied by Kalara, locate the "Enterprise"'s saucer section. Knowing that Kalara knew they would be attacked, Kirk tricks her into revealing herself as Krall's spy. She is killed when Kirk and Chekov escape Krall's soldiers and flip the "Enterprise" saucer, crushing her. Elsewhere on the planet, Dr. Leonard McCoy and a wounded Spock search for other survivors. Spock tells McCoy that he ended his relationship with Uhura and is leaving Starfleet to help the Vulcan survivors and continue the late Ambassador Spock's work. Jaylah, a scavenger who previously escaped Krall's encampment where her father was killed, rescues Scott and takes him to her makeshift home, the grounded USS "Franklin", an early Starfleet vessel reported missing over a century earlier. Scott is reunited with Kirk, Chekov, McCoy and Spock. Krall coerces the captive "Enterprise" crew to hand over the Abronath, then uses it to complete an ancient bioweapon. With the device complete, Krall intends to kill "Yorktown"'s inhabitants, then use the base to attack the United Federation of Planets. Kirk and the others free the crew as Krall launches into space with the bioweapon, leading his drones to "Yorktown".

The "Enterprise" survivors power up the "Franklin" and launch her in pursuit of Krall. Theorizing the swarm's system may be vulnerable to high frequencies such as VHF or radio, they jam and destroy the swarm by broadcasting the song "Sabotage" by the Beastie Boys. Krall is chased by the "Franklin" through "Yorktown". Uhura, Kirk and Scotty discover from the "Franklin"'s logs that Krall is actually Balthazar Edison, "Franklin"'s former captain. A pre-Federation human soldier, Edison rejected the Federation's principles of unity and cooperation with former enemies like the Xindi and the Romulans. When he and his crew were stranded on Altamid by a wormhole, the survivors used the extinct natives' technology to prolong their lives at the cost of the others and re-purposed the ancient race's dormant mining drone workers into the swarm. Thinking the Federation had abandoned them, Edison planned to destroy the Federation and resume galactic conflict. Kirk pursues Edison into "Yorktown"'s ventilation system, where Edison activates the bioweapon. Before it can spread, Kirk ejects it and Edison into space, where the weapon disintegrates Edison. Using a commandeered alien ship, Spock and McCoy save Kirk moments before he is also blown into space.

In the aftermath, Commodore Paris closes the files of Captain Edison and the USS "Franklin" crew. Though offered the promotion to vice admiral, Kirk decides to remain as a captain; Spock chooses to remain in Starfleet and renews his relationship with Uhura. On Kirk's recommendation, Jaylah is accepted into Starfleet Academy. As the crew celebrates Kirk's birthday, they watch the construction of their new ship, the USS "Enterprise"-A—and resume their mission.

####Star Trek Into Darkness####

In 2259, Captain James T. Kirk is removed from command of the starship USS "Enterprise" for violating the Prime Directive after exposing the ship to the primitive inhabitants of the planet Nibiru in order to save them, and Spock, from a cataclysmic volcanic eruption. Admiral Christopher Pike is reinstated as commanding officer with Kirk demoted to first officer. Spock is transferred to another ship. Shortly after, Starfleet officer Thomas Harewood, sent by Commander John Harrison, bombs a Section 31 installation in London. During an emergency meeting on the situation, Harrison uses a ship to ambush and kill Pike and other senior officers, before transporting to Kronos, homeworld of the hostile Klingons.

Admiral Alexander Marcus reinstates Kirk and Spock to "Enterprise" with orders to kill Harrison using a new long range stealth torpedo. Chief Engineer Montgomery Scott objects to allowing untested torpedoes on board without knowing their specifications; when he is overruled, he resigns. Kirk assigns Pavel Chekov to replace Scotty. En route to Kronos, "Enterprise"'s warp capabilities become disabled. Kirk leads a team with Spock and Uhura to the planet, where they are ambushed by Klingon patrols. Harrison appears and kills the Klingons. Harrison surrenders when he learns the precise number of torpedoes on board "Enterprise".

Dr. Leonard McCoy and Marcus's daughter, Dr. Carol Marcus, open a torpedo at Harrison's urging, revealing the torpedoes contain cryonically-frozen humans. Harrison is taken to "Enterprise"'s brig, where he reveals his true identity as Khan Noonien Singh, a genetically engineered superhuman, awoken by Admiral Marcus from centuries of sleep and forced to develop advanced weapons. Khan reveals that Marcus sabotaged "Enterprise"'s warp drive, intending for the Klingons to destroy the ship after it fired on Kronos, sparking war with the Klingon Empire. Khan also gives Kirk a set of coordinates, which Kirk asks Scott to investigate. Scott discovers the coordinates lead to a covert Starfleet facility.

"Enterprise" is intercepted by a much larger Starfleet warship, USS "Vengeance", commanded by Admiral Marcus. Marcus demands that Kirk deliver Khan, but "Enterprise" flees to Earth to expose him. After "Vengeance" disables "Enterprise" near the Moon, Carol reveals her presence aboard "Enterprise" to stop the attack. Marcus forcibly transports Carol to "Vengeance" before ordering "Enterprise"'s destruction. "Vengeance" loses power after being sabotaged by Scott, who infiltrated the ship. With transporters down, Kirk and Khan, with the latter's knowledge of the warship's design, space-jump to "Vengeance". Meanwhile, Spock contacts his future self on New Vulcan, who tells him of his own encounter with Khan and warns that he cannot be trusted. After fighting their way to the bridge, Khan overpowers Kirk, Scott, and Carol, kills Marcus, and takes control of "Vengeance".

Khan demands that Spock return his frozen crew in exchange for the "Enterprise" officers. Spock complies, having had McCoy surreptitiously remove Khan's frozen crew from the torpedoes beforehand. When Khan starts shooting at "Enterprise", Spock detonates the warheads, crippling the ship. With both starships caught in Earth's gravity, they plummet toward the surface. Kirk enters "Enterprise"'s radioactive reactor chamber to realign the warp core, sacrificing himself to save the ship.

Khan crashes "Vengeance" into downtown San Francisco in an attempt to destroy Starfleet headquarters, while McCoy discovers that Khan's blood has regenerative properties that may save Kirk. A vengeful Spock pursues Khan through the city and the two engage in hand-to-hand combat. Uhura beams down and stuns Khan. Spock prepares to kill Khan, but Uhura stops him, explaining he is their only chance to save Kirk. Khan's blood revives Kirk and Khan is sealed in his cryogenic pod and stored with his compatriots. One year later, Kirk speaks at "Enterprise"'s re-dedication ceremony. The "Enterprise" crew embarks on a five-year exploratory mission.

####Star Trek: First Contact####
In the 24th century, Captain Jean-Luc Picard awakens from a nightmare in which he relives his assimilation by the cybernetic Borg six years earlier. He is contacted by Admiral Hayes, who informs him of a new Borg threat against Earth. Picard's orders are for his ship, USS|Enterprise|NCC-1701-E|6, to patrol the Neutral Zone in case of Romulan aggression; Starfleet is worried that Picard is too emotionally involved with the Borg to join the fight.

Learning the fleet is losing the battle, the "Enterprise" crew disobeys orders and heads for Earth, where a single Borg Cube ship holds its own against a group of Starfleet vessels. "Enterprise" arrives in time to assist the crew of USS|Defiant||6 and its commander, the Klingon Worf. Picard takes control of the fleet and directs the surviving ships to concentrate their firepower on a seemingly unimportant point on the Borg ship.

"Enterprise" arrives hundreds of years in its past on April 4, 2063, the day before Zefram Cochrane's historic warp drive flight that leads to humanity's first encounter with alien life. The crew realizes the Borg are trying to prevent first contact and assimilate humanity while the planet is reeling from a devastating nuclear war. After destroying the Borg sphere, an away team transports down to Cochrane's ship, "Phoenix", in Bozeman, Montana. Picard has Cochrane's assistant Lily Sloane sent back to "Enterprise" for medical attention. The captain returns to the ship and leaves Commander William T. Riker on Earth to make sure "Phoenix"'s flight proceeds as planned. While in the future Cochrane is seen as a hero, in reality he built the "Phoenix" for financial gain and is reluctant to be the historic figure the crew describes.<ref name="startrek-synopsis"/>

A group of Borg invade "Enterprise"'s lower decks, assimilating crew and modifying the ship. Picard and a team attempt to reach engineering to disable the Borg with a corrosive gas, but are forced back; the android Data is captured in the melee. A frightened Lily corners Picard with a weapon, but he gains her trust. The two escape the Borg-infested area of the ship by creating a diversion in the holodeck.

As Cochrane, Riker, and engineer Geordi La Forge prepare to activate the warp drive on "Phoenix", Picard discovers that the Borg Queen has grafted human skin onto Data, giving him the sensation of touch he has long desired so that she can obtain the android's encryption codes to the "Enterprise" computer.

Although Picard offers himself to the Borg in exchange for Data's freedom and willingly become Locutus again, Data refuses to leave. He deactivates the self-destruct and fires torpedoes at "Phoenix". At the last moment the torpedoes miss, and the Queen realizes Data betrayed her.<ref name="nemecek-328"/> The android ruptures a coolant tank, and the corrosive vapor eats away the biological components of the Borg. With the Borg threat neutralized, Cochrane completes his warp flight.<ref name="startrek-synopsis"/> The next day the crew watches from a distance as an alien Vulcan ship, attracted by the "Phoenix" warp test, lands on Earth. Cochrane  greets the aliens. Having ensured the correction of the timeline, Picard bids Lily farewell and the "Enterprise" crew slip away and return to the 24th century.<ref name="startrek-synopsis"/>

####Star Trek: Insurrection####
Lieutenant Commander Data (Brent Spiner) is temporarily transferred to an undercover mission observing the peaceful Ba'ku people. He suddenly malfunctions and reveals the presence of the joint Federation–Son'a task force observing the Ba'ku. Admiral Matthew Dougherty (Anthony Zerbe) contacts the USS "Enterprise"-E to obtain Data's schematics for recovery purposes, but adamantly states the "Enterprise's" presence is unneeded. Captain Jean-Luc Picard ignores orders and takes the "Enterprise" to recover Data. Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) becomes suspicious when Dougherty insists that the "Enterprise" is no longer needed and orders Data's malfunction to be investigated.

The crew discovers that the Ba'ku are technologically advanced with warp capabilities, but have rejected its use for simpler lives. Due to unique "metaphasic particles" emanating from the planet's rings, the inhabitants are effectively immortal. By contrast, the Federation's allies, the Son'a, are a decrepit race who rely on medical technology to delay death; excessive cosmetic surgery gives them a mummified appearance. The "Enterprise" crew experience the rejuvenation effects of the planet: Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge (LeVar Burton) can now see without occular implants, Worf experiences puberty symptoms, Commander William Riker (Jonathan Frakes) and Counselor Deanna Troi (Marina Sirtis) rekindle their long-abandoned relationship, and Picard develops a romantic relationship with Anij (Donna Murphy), a Ba'ku woman.

Data and Picard discover a submerged and cloaked Federation ship containing a gigantic holodeck that recreates the Ba'ku village. Data's malfunction stemmed from a Son'a attack, the result of his accidentally discovering their vessel. Picard confronts Dougherty and learns that top Federation officers colluded with the Son'a to deceptively relocated the Ba'ku to another planet, allowing for the particles to be collected on a mass scale (poisoning the planet in the process). Dougherty then orders the "Enterprise" to leave. Picard defiantly retorts that the particle's medical benefits does not justify Dougherty's plans for the Ba'ku and it violates Star Fleet's Prime Directive.

Picard and some crew help the Ba'ku escape abduction while Riker moves the "Enterprise" to transmission range to communicate the violation to Starfleet. The Son'a launch robotic probes to locate and capture the fleeing Ba'ku. The Son'a leader, Ahdar Ru'afo (F. Murray Abraham), convinces Dougherty to allow two Son'a ships to attack the "Enterprise", but "Enterprise" escapes. Their plan exposed, Ru'afo insists upon harvesting the radiation source immediately. Picard, Anij, and several Ba'ku are transported as prisoners onto the Son'a ship. Dr Crusher discovers that the Son'a and the Ba'ku are the same race. Picard then informs Dougherty that the Son'a are a splinter faction of Ba'ku who abandoned their bucolic existence a century earlier and embraced technology. Their attempt to seize power failed, and the Ba'ku elders exiled them from the planet, denying them the ring's rejuvenating effects. The Son'a developed an artificially imperfect means to extend their lives at the cost of disfigurement and now seek revenge. Ru'afo kills Dougherty after he reneges on their plan and moves to complete the collection.

While Picard is prepared for execution, he convinces the disillusioned Son'a Gallatin (Gregg Henry) to help him stop Ru'afo. Picard masterminds a ruse to transport Ru'afo and his bridge crew to a holoship and disable the harvester. Ru'afo discovers the deception and transports to the harvester ship to manually restart the process. Picard follows and sets the harvester to self-destruct, killing Ru'afo just as the "Enterprise" rescues Picard. The remaining Son'a are forgiven and welcomed back by the Ba'ku. Picard arranges a meeting between Gallatin and his Ba'ku mother to thank him for his help. The crew takes a moment to enjoy their rejuvenated selves before returning to their previous mission.

####Star Trek: Nemesis####
On Romulus, members of the Romulan Senate debate terms of peace and alliance from the Reman rebel leader Shinzon. The Remans are a slave race of the Romulan Empire from the neighboring planet Remus, used as miners and cannon fodder. While a faction of the military supports Shinzon, the Praetor and Senate are opposed to an alliance. After rejecting the motion, the Praetor and senators are disintegrated by a device left in the room.

Meanwhile, the crew of the Starship "Enterprise" prepare to bid farewell to newly-married officers William Riker and Deanna Troi. The android officer Data serenades the couple with a rendition of "Blue Skies" at a reception. En route to the ceremony, they discover an energy reading on the planet Kolarus III near the Romulan Neutral Zone. Captain Jean-Luc Picard, security officer Worf, and Data land on the planet and discover the remnants of an android resembling Data, named B-4. The trio are attacked by the native population, and leave the planet with B-4, which they deduce to be an earlier Soong type Android.

"Enterprise" is ordered on a diplomatic mission to Romulus, where Shinzon has taken over the Empire and professes a desire for peace with the Federation. On arrival, they learn Shinzon is a clone of Picard, secretly created by the Romulans to plant a high-ranking spy into the Federation. The project was abandoned when Shinzon was still a child, and he was left on Remus to die as a slave. After many years, Shinzon became a leader of the Remans, and constructed a heavily armed flagship, "Scimitar". The "Enterprise" crew discover that "Scimitar" is producing low levels of deadly thalaron radiation, the same radiation used to wipe out the Romulan Senate. There are also unexpected attempts to communicate with the "Enterprise" computers, and Shinzon invades Troi's mind through the telepathy of his Reman viceroy.

Medical officer Doctor Beverly Crusher discovers that Shinzon is dying rapidly because of the process used to clone him, and the only possible treatment is a transfusion of Picard's blood. Shinzon kidnaps Picard and B-4, having planted the android on Kolarus as a lure. Data reveals he swapped places with B-4, and rescues Picard. They determine Shinzon plans to use "Scimitar" to invade the Federation, using its thalaron radiation generator to eradicate all life on Earth.

"Enterprise" races back to Federation space, but is ambushed by "Scimitar" in the Bassen Rift, a region which prevents subspace communication. Despite the aid of two Romulan Warbirds, "Enterprise" is heavily damaged. Picard rams his ship into "Scimitar", crippling both vessels. Shinzon activates the thalaron weapon in an act of mutually assured destruction. Picard boards "Scimitar" alone to face Shinzon, and kills him by impaling him on a metal strut. With "Enterprise"'s transporters down, Data leaps the distance between the two ships equipped with an emergency transporter, beaming Picard off the ship, and sacrifices himself to destroy the thalaron generator and "Scimitar" with it. The crew mourn Data, and the surviving Romulan commander, Donatra, offers them her gratitude for saving the Empire.

Back at Earth, Picard bids farewell to Riker, who is leaving with Troi to command the USS "Titan". Picard meets with B-4, and discovers that, before he boarded the "Scimitar", Data downloaded his memories into B-4, allowing him to live on. As B-4 starts singing "Blue Skies", Picard leaves B-4's quarters and smiles.

####Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace####
####Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones####
####Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith####
####Star Wars (film)####
####Star Wars: The Force Awakens####
####Star Wars: The Last Jedi####
####Star Wars: The Clone Wars (film)####


During the first year of the Clone Wars, Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker and his master, Obi-Wan Kenobi, lead a small battalion of Republic Clone troopers led by Captain Rex against Count Dooku's Separatist droid army on the planet Christophsis. Awaiting reinforcements, the two Jedi greet a shuttle carrying a young Jedi Padawan named Ahsoka Tano, who insists that she has been assigned by Grandmaster Yoda to serve as Anakin's apprentice. Initially reluctant, Ahsoka earns Anakin's respect after the two succeed in deactivating the Separatists' energy field while Obi-Wan stalls the droid army commander, allowing a Republic victory.

Following the battle, Yoda arrives and informs the Jedi that gangster Jabba the Hutt's son Rotta has been kidnapped. The kidnapping has been planned by Dooku's Sith master Darth Sidious, who hopes to blame the Jedi for Rotta's kidnapping in order to get Jabba to ally with the Separatists and fuel anti-Jedi sentiment from the Hutts. Anakin and Ahsoka are tasked with retrieving the Huttlet, while Obi-Wan is sent to Tatooine to negotiate with Jabba over a potential treaty between the Hutts and the Republic. Anakin and Ahsoka track the kidnapper and Rotta to the planet Teth, where they are ambushed by Separatist forces led by Count Dooku's assassin and former Jedi Asajj Ventress. The Jedi manage to escape along with R2-D2 and hijack a derelict transport, which they use to travel to Tatooine. Obi-Wan, alerted by Anakin, arrives on Teth and engages Ventress in a lightsaber duel. Though Obi-Wan manages to defeat her, Ventress escapes, knowing she has failed.

Meanwhile, on Coruscant, Anakin's wife Senator Padmé Amidala learns of her husband's mission. Fearing for his safety, she confronts Jabba's uncle Ziro, who refuses to cooperate, apparently believing that it is the Jedi who are responsible for the situation. However, she soon discovers that Ziro has actually conspired with Dooku to have Rotta killed, so that Jabba would execute Anakin and Ahsoka, leading to his arrest by the Jedi Council, allowing Ziro to seize power over the Hutt Clan. Padmé is captured and imprisoned, but a chance call by C-3PO enables her to summon a squadron of clone troopers, and Ziro is arrested, despite revealing Dooku threatened to execute him if he did not cooperate with the conspiracy.

Arriving on Tatooine, Anakin devises a ruse to confront Dooku carrying a fake Rotta, while Ahsoka takes the real Rotta to Jabba's palace. While Anakin fights off Dooku, Ahsoka is ambushed by the MagnaGuards, whom she defeats with ease. The two deliver Rotta safely to Jabba, who nonetheless orders the Jedi to be executed for their supposed kidnapping attempt. However, Padmé contacts Jabba in time and reveals Ziro and the Separatists' responsibility for the kidnapping. Acknowledging the Jedi's heroism and allowing the Republic to have Ziro punished for his crimes, Jabba, in gratitude, agrees to the treaty before Anakin and Ahsoka are picked up by Obi-Wan and Yoda. Meanwhile, Dooku reports the plot's failure to Sidious, who assures him that the tide of the war is still in their favor.

####Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker####
####Starcrash####
In a distant galaxy, a starship searches for the evil Count Zarth Arn. Closing in on a planet, the ship is attacked by a mysterious weapon which drives the crew insane. Three escape pods launch during the attack, but the ship crashes into the atmosphere of the planet and is destroyed.

Meanwhile, smugglers Stella Star and Akton run into the Imperial Space Police, led by robot sheriff Elle and Police Chief Thor. Akton and Stella escape by jumping into hyperspace. When they emerge, they discover an escape pod from the attacked starship, and in it, a sole disoriented survivor. Before they can escape, they are apprehended by the police, who have tracked their hyperspace trail.

Tried and convicted of piracy, they are each sentenced to life in prison on separate prison planets. Stella manages to escape from her prison, but Elle and Thor recapture her, only to inform her the authorities have canceled her sentence; she is taken to an orbiting ship, where she is reunited with Akton. They are contacted holographically by the Emperor of the Galaxy, who thanks them for recovering the starship survivor.

He informs them that Count Zarth Arn has a secret weapon of immense power hidden away on a planet somewhere. The Emperor orders Stella and Akton to find the Count's weapon. They are offered clemency if they help find two more missing escape pods as well as the mothership, one of which may contain the Emperor's only son. With Thor and Elle accompanying them, Stella and Akton set off on their quest.

They quickly arrive at the location Akton computes for the first escape pod. Stella and Elle take a shuttle from the spaceship and land near the pod on a sandy, rocky beach. There are no living survivors. Stella meets an Amazonian warrior tribe and is escorted to their underground fortress. On arrival, Elle is ambushed, shot and left for dead, and Stella is taken captive. Stella is taken before Amazon Queen Corelia, who is in league with Zarth Arn. Elle, revealed not to have died, makes his way to the throne room, taking Corelia hostage to secure Stella's release. They escape, but the queen activates a giant female robot which chases them until they are rescued by Akton and Thor.

On an uninhabited, frozen planet, Stella and Elle investigate the mothership crash site. As with the first crash site, they find no survivors. Upon their return to the ship, Thor, who has ambushed and apparently knocked out Akton, reveals that he is an agent of Zarth Arn. Thor locks Stella and Elle outside on the planet's surface, where the temperature drops thousands of degrees at night, but Elle is able to preserve Stella's life by using his energy to keep her heart going while they freeze over in the snow. Meanwhile, Akton revives and battles Thor, killing him and subsequently rescuing Elle and Stella.

Approaching the planet of the third escape pod, their ship comes under attack from the same weapon seen at the beginning of the film, but Akton steers the ship through it, saving them. Stella and Elle, inspecting the pod wreckage, are attacked by cavemen who smash Elle to pieces and abduct Stella, but a man in a golden mask arrives, firing lasers through his eyes, and rescues her. He is revealed to be the Emperor's son, Prince Simon. They are again attacked and overpowered by the cavemen, but Akton appears and fights them off with his laser sword; he then reveals that they are standing on the Count's weaponized planet.

Arriving at an underground laboratory, the three are captured by the guards. The Count appears and reveals his plan to use them as bait to bring the Emperor to the planet and then have his weapon self-destruct, destroying the planet, the Emperor and all three of them. He leaves, ordering his two robot golems to keep the group there. Akton engages them in a laser sword duel and defeats the robots, but is mortally wounded and fades away. The Emperor arrives at the planet and fires a green ray from his flagship to "stop time" for three minutes, allowing them all to escape as the planet explodes behind them.

A huge battle commences between the Emperor's armada and the Count's, with the Emperor's soldiers storming the Count's space station; however, the attack fails and the victorious Count gets ready to destroy the Emperor's home planet. With no further options left, the Emperor decides to use a massive space station, the Floating City, to ram the Count's space station in a 4th dimensional attack, “Starcrash”. Elle has been rebuilt by the Emperor's men. Stella and Elle volunteer to smash the City into the Count's station. They fly the City towards the space station and manage to escape together just as their station crashes into the Count's, finally winning the war.

Stella and Elle are picked up by Simon and the two humans embrace. The movie ends with the Emperor delivering a short victory speech.

####Stargate (film)####
In 1928 in Giza, Egypt, Catherine Langford's father unearths cover stones (also called cap stones) engraved with Egyptian hieroglyphs. In 1994, she invites Egyptologist and linguist Daniel Jackson, Ph.D. to translate the hieroglyphs. The stones are now part of a U.S. Air Force classified project overseen by Special Operations Colonel Jack O'Neil. Jackson determines that the hieroglyphs refer to a "stargate" which uses constellations as spatial coordinates. He is then shown the Stargate, which was also discovered by Langford's father, and they use his coordinates to align the Stargate's metal ring with markings along its outside. When all seven are locked in, a wormhole opens, connecting the Stargate with a distant planet. Jackson joins O'Neil and his team (Reilly, Porro, Freeman, Brown, Ferretti, and Kawalsky) as they pass through the wormhole.

They arrive in a pyramid on the arid desert planet of Abydos. Jackson locates the Stargate's controls, but does not find the final symbol for the return coordinates. O'Neil orders Reilly, Porro, Freeman, and Ferretti to stay behind to guard the Stargate. Jackson sees a large animal with a harness, which drags him off when he approaches it to investigate. O'Neil's group follows and they discover a tribe of humans working to mine a strange mineral. Jackson realizes that they speak a variant of Ancient Egyptian and is able to communicate with them. He learns that the tribe sees him and his comrades as emissaries of their god Ra. The tribe's chieftain Kasuf presents Jackson with his daughter Sha'uri as a gift, and although Jackson initially refuses her, he later becomes romantically attached to her. O'Neil befriends Kasuf's teenaged son Skaara and his friends. Through hidden markings and discussions with the tribe, Jackson learns that Ra is an alien being who came to Earth during the Ancient Egyptian period to possess human bodies to extend his own life. Ra enslaved these humans and used the Stargate to bring some of them to Abydos to mine the mineral that is used in the alien technology. Humans on Earth revolted, overthrew Ra's overseers, and buried the Stargate to prevent its use. During this investigation, Jackson comes across a cartouche containing six of the seven symbols for the Stargate, but the seventh has been broken off.

That night, Ra's ship lands atop the pyramid structure, and his soldiers capture Ferretti and Freeman while killing Porro and Reilly. When Jackson, O'Neil, Brown, and Kawalsky return, there is a firefight against Ra's soldiers. Jackson and O'Neil are captured and brought before Ra and his guards, who are revealed to be humanoids when they retract their armored head-pieces. A firefight ensues, Jackson is killed, and the others are captured. Ra places Jackson's body in a sarcophagus-like device that regenerates him. Ra tells Jackson that he has found a nuclear bomb O'Neil secretly brought and has used his alien technology to increase its explosive power a hundred-fold, threatening to send it back through the Stargate to Earth. Ra orders the human tribe to watch as he prepares to force Jackson to execute the others to demonstrate his power, but Skaara and his friends create a diversion that allows Jackson, O'Neil, Kawalsky, and Ferretti to escape, while Freeman is killed. They flee to nearby caves to hide from Ra. Skaara and his friends celebrate, and Skaara draws a sign of victory on a wall, which Jackson recognizes as the final symbol.

O'Neil and his remaining men aid Skaara in overthrowing the remaining overseers and then launch an attack on Ra, who sends out fighter ships against the humans while he orders his ship to depart. The humans outside run out of ammunition and are forced to surrender to the fighter ships' pilots, but the rest of the tribe, seeing that their false gods are only humanoid, rebel against the pilots and overthrow them. Sha'uri is killed, but Jackson takes her body and sneaks aboard Ra's ship using a teleportation system, leaving O'Neil to fight Ra's guard captain, Anubis. Jackson places Sha'uri in the regeneration device, and she recovers, but Ra discovers them and attempts to kill Jackson. O'Neil activates the teleportation system, killing Anubis and allowing Jackson and Sha'uri to escape the ship. O'Neil and Jackson teleport the bomb to Ra's ship, destroying the ship and killing Ra. With the humans freed, the remaining team&nbsp;— O’Neil, Kawalsky, and Ferretti&nbsp;— return to Earth while Jackson chooses to stay behind with Sha'uri and the others.

####Stargate Extinction####
####Stargate: Revolution####
####Starquest II####
####Starship Troopers (film)####
####Starship: Apocalypse####
####The 5th Wave (film)####

Ohio high-schooler Cassie Sullivan, armed with an M4 carbine, emerges from the woods to raid an abandoned gas station. Upon entering, she hears a voice calling for help. She finds a wounded man, he points a gun at her, then each of the two asks the other to put one’s own weapon down. When he pulls his other hand out from under his jacket, she mistakes the metallic glint of a Christian cross for that of a gun, so she kills him: the screen then cuts to black, and her backstory begins.

A colossal alien spaceship is circling Earth, guided by extraterrestrial life referred to as "The Others". Ten days later, The Others unleash their 1st Wave, an electromagnetic pulse that disables all electrical power and communications worldwide, and shuts off the engines of moving vehicles, including planes in mid-flight. The 2nd Wave has The Others manipulate<!--- the method is not explained in the film, but in the novel --> the planet's geology and fault lines, causing earthquakes and megatsunamis that destroy coastal cities and islands, including Hallandale Beach, London, Bangkok and New York City. In Ohio, Lake Erie floods, but Cassie and her younger brother Sam are able to escape by climbing a tree. For the 3rd Wave, The Others modify a strain of avian influenza and spread it across the planet via birds. The population is decimated, with Cassie's mother one of the victims. In the 4th wave, The Others possess common humans and start killing other humans.

Cassie, Sam and their father find a summer camp in use as a refuge in the woods with roughly 300 survivors. A few days later, an Army unit with working vehicles rolls into the camp. The unit's commander, Colonel Vosch, claims there is an imminent threat of a 5th Wave and they will take the children to safety at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, intending to bring the buses back to retrieve the adults. Cassie is separated from Sam, and witnesses the Army massacring all the adults, her father included. Cassie makes her way toward the base, but is shot in the leg by a sniper and passes out. About a week later, she wakes up in the farmhouse of a young man named Evan Walker, who saved her. Cassie leaves towards the base with Evan, but learns that he is an Other, sent years ago as a sleeper agent and merged his consciousness into a human host. The sleepers roam their designated zones, killing human survivors. Evan admits his humanity was reactivated when he saw her, disagrees with the invasion and lets her leave. He warns that Colonel Vosch and the military are possessed by the consciousness of individual Others.

At the base, the military have used deception and technology to convince the rescued children that the humans outside the base have been possessed. They provide military training to the children, forming them into squads to go on kill missions outside the base. Sam has been placed into a squad led by Ben, a boy Cassie had a crush on, along with Ringer, a tough teenage girl, Dumbo, who survived the 2nd wave, and Teacup. While out on a kill mission, Ringer removes her military implant, causing her to register as an Other-possessed human on the squad's scopes. The squad deduces the plan to have them kill real unpossessed humans, making them the 5th Wave. Ben sends his squad into the woods and returns to base, claiming his squad was killed, for the purpose of retrieving Sam, who was left behind. Ben confronts Colonel Vosch about child warriors being the 5th Wave and Cassie kills Sergeant Reznik during her one-on-one indoctrination spiel. Ben and Cassie find each other and leave to find Sam. Evan sets off numerous bombs and advises them to quickly find Sam before the destruction of the entire facility. Colonel Vosch and the surviving military Others evacuate with the human children by military aircraft. Cassie, Ben and Sam escape, with help from Ringer, just as Evan completes the destruction of the base. Ben's squad is reunited, and Cassie ponders the strength of hope as humanity's driving force for survival.

####9 (2005 film)####
9 is a sentient rag doll who appears to be the last of his kind, living in the ruins of a decaying, post-apocalyptic Earth. Hunting 9 relentlessly is the Cat Beast, a mechanical monster wearing a cat's skull for a head. It appears to be guided by a small glowing talisman which it holds in its claws. Sitting quietly, 9 stares into the mirrored surface of his own strange talisman and has a flashback.

In the flashback, 9 searches the ruins with his mentor, 5, a one-eyed rag doll. The Cat Beast attacks the pair and consequently kills 5 by sucking his soul out from his mouth and 9 escapes.

9 is woken from the memory by the warning green glow of the mirrored talisman. The Cat Beast chases 9 into a building and reveals that it has not only taken the other rag dolls' souls, but also wears their numbered skins like a garment. Eventually, it falls into 9's trap and falls to its death.

9 salvages the skins of the other rag dolls and prepares them to be ceremonially burned. As he looks sadly at the skin of 5, the two talismans begin to glow. 9 realizes that they are two halves of a whole and puts them together. A beam of green light erupts from the united talisman, and the spirits of the eight slain rag dolls 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 emerge, returning to their rag doll skins to be at peace. Before disappearing, 5's soul turns to 9 and nods in approval.

In the morning, 9 walks off into the wasteland, leaving the empty talisman behind in the sand.

####9 (2009 animated film)####
A scientist is ordered by his dictator to create a robot in the apparent name of progress, and so the scientist creates the B.R.A.I.N., a highly intelligent robot. The dictator seizes it upon its apparent completion and turns it into the Fabrication Machine, an armature that can construct an army of war machines to destroy the dictator's enemies. However, the B.R.A.I.N. became corrupted because it lacked a soul, causing it to exterminate humanity. On the verge of destruction, the scientist uses alchemy to create nine homunculus-like rag dolls known as "Stitchpunks" as a last resort to stopping the machines, giving them portions of his own soul via a talisman he created. He dies upon completion of the final doll.

Some time later, the final Stitchpunk, 9, awakens in the workshop and ventures into the devastated city where he meets 2, a frail inventor who gives him a working voice box. The last active machine, the Cat-Beast, attacks the pair and abducts both 2 and takes the talisman. 9 collapses, but awakens in Sanctuary, the tower of an empty cathedral that is home to other Stitchpunks - the dogmatic leader 1, his large bodyguard 8, the cycloptic engineer 5, and the mentally unstable oracle 6. 9, having seen the condemned factory where the Cat-Beast took 2, decides to rescue him. 9 and 5 venture to the factory where they find 2. The Cat-Beast attacks the trio, but are saved by 7, the only female of the Stitchpunks. 9, drawn by curiosity, connects the talisman to the derelict Fabrication Machine, reviving it, and it subsequently kills 2 by sucking out his soul. 9, 5, and 7 manage to escape the factory.

7 takes 9 and 5 to an abandoned library, where the silent scholar twins, 3 and 4, have taken residence, and show 9 the Fabrication Machine's origins. 5 realizes the talisman's symbols match the clairvoyant drawings of 6. 9 and 5 return to Sanctuary to investigate, but 1 intervenes and reprimands them for disobeying his orders. Meanwhile, the Fabrication Machine assembles new robotic creatures; one of them, the bird-like Winged Beast, attacks the Sanctuary. 7 joins the fight and Stitchpunks defeats the Winged Beast.

As the group retreats to the library, 6, 3, and 4 cryptically explain the talisman's origins, but 1 reveals to the group that he sent 2 out of Sanctuary on a scouting trip to die. 7, shocked by this, attacks 1, but flees when 9 intervenes. Meanwhile, the Fabrication Machine retrieves 2's corpse and uses it as a hypnotic lure for another one of its robot creatures, known as The Seamstress. The Seamstress attacks the library and captures both 7 and 8, but 2's body is recovered and given a funeral by the others. The others then run to the factory to destroy the machines. 9 goes in alone, kills the Seamstress, and rescues 7, but not before 8's soul is absorbed by the Fabrication Machine. 9 and 7 escape while the others destroy the factory.

The Fabrication Machine, which survived, suddenly emerges from the ruins of the factory and absorbs 5's soul. The Fabrication Machine attacks the group as they run away and manages to capture 6. 6 tells 9 to go to the Scientist's workshop to find answers, before being absorbed by the Fabrication Machine. 9 follows 6's instructions, finding a holographic recorded message from the Scientist, explaining B.R.A.I.N.'s origins and that the Stitchpunks have his soul, making them the only hope for humanity. Following this revelation, 9 uncovers the purpose of the talisman and returns to his friends.

9 reunites with the other Stitchpunks and decides to sacrifice himself so the others can retrieve the talisman. Having had a change of heart, 1 redeems himself by saving 9, pushing him out of the way and allowing himself to be absorbed while 9 removes the talisman. 9 activates the talisman and reabsorbs the souls taken by the Machine, resulting in its final destruction. Afterwards, 9, 7, 3, and 4 free the souls of 5, 1, 6, 2, and 8 from the talisman as they fly up into the sky, causing it to rain. The final image shows that the raindrops contain small flecks of glowing bacteria, bringing life back into the world.

####2001: A Space Odyssey (film)####
####2010: The Year We Make Contact####

Nine years after the failure of the "Discovery One" mission to Jupiter in 2001, in which the crew of five including mission commander David Bowman were lost, an international dispute causes tension between the United States and the Soviet Union while both nations prepare space missions to determine what happened to the "Discovery". The Soviet spacecraft "Leonov" will be ready a year before the American "Discovery Two", but only the Americans can reactivate the ship's sentient computer, HAL 9000, thought to be responsible for the disaster. Upon learning that "Discovery" will crash into Jupiter's moon Io before the American mission can reach it, NASA persuades the Soviets to include Dr. Heywood Floyd, "Discovery" designer Walter Curnow, and HAL 9000's creator Dr. Chandra on their mission.

Arriving at Jupiter, the crew detects organic molecules on Jupiter's icy moon Europa. A probe sent to investigate is destroyed by an energy burst, which the Soviets believe to be electrostatic build-up, but which Floyd suspects is a warning to stay away from Europa. Finding "Discovery" adrift in orbit over Io, Curnow reactivates the ship, and Chandra restarts HAL. Cosmonaut Max Brailovsky investigates the nearby giant Monolith where Bowman disappeared, but his EVA pod is destroyed by a burst of energy.

On Earth, Dave Bowman, now an incorporeal being, appears through his former wife's television to say goodbye, telling her that "something wonderful" is going to happen. He then visits his comatose mother in a nursing home. She briefly awakens, delighted by her son's presence, as Bowman gently brushes his mother's hair.  After he departs, Mrs. Bowman dies peacefully.

Chandra discovers the reasons for HAL's malfunction: the National Security Council ordered HAL to conceal information about the Monolith from the "Discovery"'s crew, and programmed him to complete the mission alone. This conflicted with HAL's programming of open, accurate processing of information, causing the computer equivalent of a paranoid mental breakdown. When Bowman and copilot Frank Poole discussed deactivating the malfunctioning computer, HAL concluded that the human crew was endangering the mission, and terminated them. Although the NSC's order bears his signature, Floyd angrily denies having known of it.

Back on Earth, the United States and the Soviet Union are on the brink of war. The Americans are ordered to leave the "Leonov" and move to the "Discovery", with no further communication between the crews. Both ships plan to leave Jupiter in several weeks' time, but Bowman appears to Floyd, and says that everyone must leave within two days. Floyd confers with the skeptical Soviet captain, Tanya Kirbuk. As the crews agree to cooperate on an emergency departure, the Monolith suddenly disappears, and an ominous black spot appears in Jupiter's atmosphere. Neither ship has the fuel to reach Earth if they leave ahead of schedule, so the ships are docked together, and placed under the control of HAL 9000. "Discovery"'s remaining fuel will be burned to propel the "Leonov" away from Jupiter; then "Discovery" will be undocked and left behind.

HAL determines that the spot is a vast group of smaller Monoliths, multiplying exponentially and altering Jupiter's mass and chemical composition. He suggests canceling the launch in order to study the changes occurring to Jupiter. Floyd worries that HAL will prioritize his mission over the humans' survival, but Chandra admits to the computer that there is a danger, and that "Discovery" may be destroyed. HAL thanks Chandra for telling him the truth, and ensures the "Leonov"'s escape. Before "Discovery" is destroyed, Bowman asks HAL to transmit a priority message, assuring him that they will soon be together. The Monoliths engulf Jupiter, which undergoes nuclear fusion, becoming a new star. HAL transmits this message to Earth:

center|<samp><poem>
ALL THESE WORLDS
ARE YOURS EXCEPT
EUROPA
ATTEMPT NO
LANDING THERE
USE THEM TOGETHER
USE THEM IN PEACE
</poem></samp>

The "Leonov" survives the shockwave from Jupiter's ignition, and returns home. Floyd narrates how the new star's miraculous appearance, and the message from a mysterious alien power, inspire the American and Soviet leaders to seek peace. Under its infant sun, icy Europa transforms into a humid jungle, covered with life, and watched over by a Monolith.

####2012 (film)####

In 2009, American geologist Adrian Helmsley visits astrophysicist Satnam Tsurutani in East India and learns that a new type of neutrino from a solar flare is heating the Earth's core. Returning to Washington, D.C., Adrian alerts White House Chief of Staff Carl Anheuser and President Thomas Wilson.

In 2010, over forty-six nations begin building nine arks in the Himalayas in Tibet and storing artifacts in secure locations. Nima, a Buddhist monk, is evacuated with his grandparents, and his brother Tenzin joins the ark project. Additional funding is secretly raised by selling tickets to the rich for €1 billion per person.

In 2012, struggling science-fiction writer Jackson Curtis is a chauffeur in Los Angeles for Russian billionaire Yuri Karpov. Jackson's ex-wife Kate and their children, Noah and Lilly, live with Kate's boyfriend, plastic surgeon and amateur pilot Gordon Silberman. Jackson takes Noah and Lilly camping in Yellowstone National Park. When they find the Yellowstone Lake dried and fenced off by the United States Army, they are caught and brought to Adrian. They later meet conspiracy theorist and radio personality Charlie Frost, who tells Jackson of Charles Hapgood's theory that polar shift and the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar predict a 2012 phenomenon and the worldwide catastrophes, and that the world's governments silence anyone attempting to warn the public about them. Jackson heeds Charlie's warning after the swift departure of Yuri's sons Alec and Oleg and then rents a Cessna 340A to rescue his family. As the disaster fractures the San Andreas Fault, Jackson and his family reach the Santa Monica Airport and get the plane airborne just before the Pacific Coast slides into the ocean. The group flies to Yellowstone and retrieve Charlie's map of the arks' location. The Yellowstone Caldera erupts, with Charlie staying behind to finish his broadcast; he is killed by debris. Realizing they need a larger plane, the group lands at McCarran International Airport south of Downtown Las Vegas to search for one.

Adrian, Carl, and First Daughter Laura fly to the arks, while President Wilson remains in the White House to address the nation. Jackson finds the Karpovs, Yuri's girlfriend Tamara, and their pilot Sasha. Sasha and Gordon fly them out in an Antonov An-500 as the volcanic ashes from the Caldera envelops the Las Vegas Valley. Billions die in disasters worldwide, including President Wilson. With the presidential line of succession gone following the Vice President's death, Carl appoints himself acting commander-in-chief.

Upon reaching the Himalayas, the plane's engines malfunction. The party uses a Bentley Flying Spur stored in the hold to escape, while Sasha crash-lands the jet on a glacier which then slides off a cliff, killing him. The survivors are spotted by Chinese Air Force helicopters and they take the Karpovs to the arks, but everyone else is abandoned including Tamara. Nima takes them to the arks with his family. With Tenzin's help, they stowaway to Ark 4.

With a megatsunami approaching, Carl orders the loading gates closed though most people have not boarded. Adrian persuades the captain and the other surviving world leaders to allow passengers aboard the arks, but Yuri falls to his death as he pushes his sons into Ark 4. The gate closes after survivors are on board, injuring Tenzin and crushing Gordon. Tenzin's impact driver used to access the ship gets lodged in the gate mechanism, preventing it from closing completely and disabling the ship's engines. As the tsunami strikes, the back of the ark starts flooding and it is set adrift, heading for Mount Everest. Adrian rushes to clear the gears, but watertight doors close, trapping the stowaways and drowning Tamara. Noah and Jackson dislodge the tool. The crew regains control of the ark, while Jackson and Noah make it back safely.

Twenty-seven days later, the waters are receding. The arks approach the Cape of Good Hope, where the Drakensberg Mountains are the highest mountain range on Earth. Adrian and Laura begin a relationship, while Jackson and Kate reconcile their marriage.

####20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1916 film)####
File:20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1916).webm|thumb|left|thumbtime=1|upright=1.2|"'PLAY"': Full film
A strange "sea monster" has been rampaging the seas. The United States sends the naval vessel "Abraham Lincoln" to investigate. During their search, the vessel runs into the "monster,” and it damages their ship. The mysterious monster turns out to be "Nautilus", the technologically advanced submarine of Captain Nemo. After the attack, the "Abraham Lincoln" is adrift with no rudder. Then, a "strange rescue" takes place. Captain Nemo guides his submarine directly beneath the four people who had been aboard the ship and fallen into the sea during the attack. "Nautilus" surfaces, and Nemo's crew brings the four rescued individuals aboard the submarine. The four include master harpooner Ned Land, a professor Pierre Aronnax, his daughter, and the professor's assistant. Once aboard the submarine, the four must swear they will not attempt to escape. The captain introduces them to his vessel and the wonders of its underwater realm. He later takes them hunting on the seafloor.

Meanwhile, union soldiers in a runaway Union Army balloon are marooned on a mysterious island. The soldiers find a wild girl living alone. Soon the yacht of Charles Denver arrives at the island. A woman's ghost (Princess Daaker) has haunted Denver, a former British colonial officer in India, whom he attacked years ago. Rather than submit to him sexually, she had stabbed and killed herself. Denver then fled with her young daughter only to abandon her on the island. Long tormented by his crime, he returned to find the girl or determine what happened to her.

One soldier scheme to kidnap the child aboard Denver's yacht. Another hears of the plan and starts swimming to the yacht to rescue her. Simultaneously, Nemo discovers the yacht belongs to Denver, the enemy he has been seeking all these years. The "Nautilus" destroys the yacht with a torpedo, but Captain Nemo saves the girl and her rescuer.

In elaborate flashback scenes to India, Nemo reveals he is Prince Daaker and created the Nautilus to seek revenge on Charles Denver. It overjoyed him to discover that the abandoned wild girl is his long-lost daughter, but his emotion overcomes him, and he dies. His loyal crew buries him at the ocean bottom. They disband and set the "Nautilus" adrift.


####20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (1954 film)####
In 1868, rumors spread of a sea monster attacking ships in the Pacific Ocean. Professor Aronnax and his assistant, Conseil, are asked to investigate and soon board a U.S. Navy frigate. They are joined by cocky master-harpooner Ned Land.

After months of patrolling, the monster is spotted. The frigate's guncrew open fire with their Dahlgren cannon, but the monster turns and rams the warship. Ned, Conseil, and Aronnax are thrown overboard while the disabled frigate drifts away, unable to respond to their cries for help. While clinging to wreckage, Aronnax and Conseil come upon a metal vessel and realize the monster is a man-made "submerging boat" that now appears deserted. Going below decks, Aronnax finds a large viewport and witnesses an underwater funeral, while Ned Land arrives on an overturned longboat from their ship. Spotted by the divers, Ned, Aronnax, and Conseil attempt to leave in the righted longboat, but the divers stop them. The vessel's captain introduces himself as Nemo, master of the "Nautilus". He returns Ned and Conseil to the deck while offering Aronnax, whose name he recognizes, the chance to stay. After Aronnax proves willing to die with his companions, Nemo allows Ned and Conseil to remain aboard.

Nemo takes "Nautilus" to the penal colony island of Rura Penthe, where the prisoners are loading a munitions ship. Nemo, once a prisoner there as were many of his crew, later rams the steamer, destroying it and its crew. Nemo tells Aronnax that he has just saved thousands from death in war, and that "this hated nation" tortured his wife and son to death while attempting to force him to reveal his discoveries. In Nemo's cabin, Ned and Conseil discover the map coordinates of Nemo's secret island base, Vulcania, where "Nautilus" is now heading. Ned throws messages overboard in bottles in the hope of being rescued.

Off the coast of New Guinea, "Nautilus" becomes stranded on a reef. Nemo allows Ned to go ashore with Conseil, ostensibly to collect specimens, while admonishing them to stay on the beach. Ned instead goes exploring for avenues of escape, and finds human skulls posted on stakes. Ned quickly rejoins Conseil, and they row away pursued by cannibals. Aboard "Nautilus", the cannibals are repelled by an electrical charge sent through its hull, and Nemo confines Ned for disobeying orders.

A warship fires upon "Nautilus", which descends into the depths, attracting a giant squid. After an electric charge fails to repel the creature, Nemo and his men surface during a violent storm to dislodge it. Nemo is caught by one of its long tentacles, and Ned, having escaped from captivity, fatally harpoons the squid, saving Nemo. Having had a change of heart, Nemo wants to make amends with the world.

As "Nautilus" nears Vulcania, Nemo finds the island surrounded by warships, with marines having disembarked. Nemo submerges "Nautilus", enters his base from underwater, and surfaces within its large lagoon. He rushes ashore to activate a prearranged time bomb in order to destroy any evidence of his discoveries, but is shot and mortally wounded. Navigating the submarine to a safe distance from Vulcania, Nemo announces that he will be "taking the "Nautilus" down for the last time". His crew declare that they will accompany their captain in death.

Aronnax, Conseil, and Ned are confined to their cabins, while "Nautilus"'s crew retreat to their own at Nemo's instructions. Ned escapes and surfaces the submarine, striking a reef in the process, causing "Nautilus" to flood. Nemo dies while viewing his beloved undersea domain through the hull's viewport.

Aronnax tries retrieving his journal, but the urgency of their escape obliges Ned to knock him unconscious and carry him out. Aboard "Nautilus"'s skiff, the three companions witness Vulcania explode. A large, billowing mushroom cloud rises above the island's destruction. Ned apologizes to Aronnax for striking him, but Aronnax concedes that the loss of his journal might have been for the best. As "Nautilus" sinks, Nemo's last words to Aronnax echo: "There is hope for the future. And when the world is ready for a new and better life, all this will someday come to pass... in God's good time".

####A.X.L.####
A-X-L is a top-secret, robotic dog created by Andric, a Craine Systems scientist, to assist and protect soldiers. The project is funded by the military. Code-named A-X-L ("Attack, eXploration, Logistics") by the scientists who created it, the robot embodies advanced next-generation artificial intelligence. After a trial goes wrong, A-X-L is discovered hiding alone and damaged in the desert by outsider and motorbike racer Miles Hill, himself alone and abandoned by Sam Fontaine after falling from his motorbike during a stunt. Miles and A-X-L connect after the robot's owner-pairing technology is activated. A-X-L goes to great lengths to help and protect his new companion. Becoming himself bonded with A-X-L, Miles teams up with the smart, resourceful Sara Reyes to protect his new best friend.

They go to a remote hideout that Sara uses as an art studio. A-X-L presents Miles with a device which takes a blood sample and completes the pairing process. Sam arrives and confronts Sara, jealous of her relationship with Miles. A-X-L attacks Sam and Miles uses the situation to threaten him, telling him to leave Sara alone. Sara is angry that Miles has inflamed an already bad situation, but says she will not leave Miles. Leaving A-X-L, they go back to Miles' home and tell his father, Chuck, about the robot. Chuck advises them to return it to its owners. Meanwhile, Sam returns with his crew and burns A-X-L with a flamethrower. Sara sees the live recording on her phone and she and Miles take off to save him. They are too late, but A-X-L gives them a location to get him repaired. Meanwhile, a man sent by Andric shows up at Chuck's house and demands to know the location of the device that controls A-X-L. Chuck grows suspicious and outmaneuvers the man, demanding answers to his own questions. The man reveals he is looking for A-X-L.

Miles and Sara take A-X-L to a garage, where the robot begins repairing itself. Andric sees a log of its location and sends a team to retrieve it. The agents arrive and try to retrieve the robot while it is still repairing. The repairs finish just in time, and A-X-L subdues the operatives. As A-X-L reboots, he recalls being burned with a flamethrower, and races off to kill Sam. Miles and Sara rush to stop him. Sam and his friends are partying when A-X-L arrives. Sam tries again to burn him with the flamethrower, but the fuel runs out. Miles and Sara arrive and convince A-X-L not to kill Sam. A swarm of drones arrives and disables A-X-L; Miles and Sara are captured and delivered to Craine Systems. Andric tries to override Miles' control of A-X-L, but fails.

When Miles refuses to reveal where the remote is, Andric programs A-X-L to attack Sara. Sara manages to convince A-X-L not to attack her, by reminding him of how she drew a feather at the hideout. Captain Webber, Andric's military superior, shows up. Andric tries to escape, but is arrested. Knowing they are surrounded, Sara allows herself to be captured. Miles and A-X-L escape, but are pursued by helicopter. They race though hilly terrain until Miles falls from his motorbike. Miles orders A-X-L to run. A-X-L obeys and tries to get as far away as possible before self-destructing, whilst uploading to the Internet all the memories he, Miles and Sara had together. Having finished, A-X-L looks at Miles' image for the last time, and says "Yo! Send it," before finishing the self-destruct sequence. Miles is subdued by the military.

Six weeks later, Andric has been imprisoned for violating national security and endangering the lives of civilians. He is visited by Webber, who informs him that A-X-L's code has resurfaced and wants to know what it is doing. Sara and Miles have gone to college with scholarships provided by the military – to buy their silence and to keep an eye on them. Sara and Miles are spending a day hanging out at the beach, studying and playing with their new puppy, when Sara hands him an envelope. Miles opens it and pulls out a note from his dad saying "This yours?". He flips the envelope upside-down and A-X-L's remote falls out into his hand. He asks Sara if he should press it. The device uploads an A-X-L app onto their phones. They realize that A-X-L has somehow survived and is trying to return to them.

####The Abyss####
In January 1994, the U.S. sclass|Ohio|submarine|2 USS "Montana" has an encounter with an unidentified submerged object and sinks near the Cayman Trough. With Soviet ships moving in to try to salvage the sub and a hurricane moving over the area, the U.S. government sends a SEAL team to "Deep Core", a privately owned experimental underwater drilling platform near the Cayman Trough to use as a base of operations. The platform's designer, Dr. Lindsey Brigman, insists on going along with the SEAL team, even though her estranged husband Virgil "Bud" Brigman is the current foreman.

During the initial investigation of the "Montana", a power cut in the team's submersibles leads to Lindsey seeing a strange light circling the sub, which she later calls a "non-terrestrial intelligence" or "NTI". Lt. Hiram Coffey, the SEAL team leader, is ordered to accelerate their mission and takes one of the mini-subs without "Deep Core"'s permission to recover a Trident missile warhead from the "Montana" just as the storm hits above, leaving the crew unable to disconnect from their surface support ship in time. The cable crane is torn from the ship and falls into the trench, dragging the "Deep Core" to the edge before it stops. The rig is partially flooded, killing several crew members and damaging its power systems.

The crew waits out the storm so they can restore communications and be rescued. As they struggle against the cold, they find the NTIs have formed an animated column of water to explore the rig, which they equate to an alien version of a remotely operated vehicle. Though they treat it with curiosity, Coffey is agitated and cuts it in half by closing a pressure bulkhead on it, causing it to retreat. Realizing that Coffey is suffering paranoia from high-pressure nervous syndrome, the crew spies on him through an ROV, finding him and another SEAL arming the warhead to attack the NTIs. To try and stop him, Bud fights Coffey but Coffey escapes in a mini-sub with the primed warhead; Bud and Lindsey give chase in the other sub, damaging both. Coffey is able to launch the warhead into the trench, but his sub drifts over the edge and implodes from the pressure, killing him. Bud's mini-sub is inoperable and taking on water; with only one functional diving suit, Lindsey opts to enter deep hypothermia and trigger her mammalian diving reflex when the ocean's cold water engulfs her. Bud swims back to the platform with her body; there, he and the crew use a defibrillator and administer CPR, they manage to successfully revive her.

It is decided that the warhead needs to be disarmed, which is more than 2 miles below them. One SEAL, Ensign Monk, helps Bud use an experimental diving suit equipped with a liquid breathing apparatus to survive to that depth, though he will only be able to communicate through a keypad on the suit. Bud begins his dive, assisted by Lindsey's voice to keep him coherent against the effects of the mounting pressure, and reaches the warhead. Monk guides him in successfully disarming it. With little oxygen left in the system, Bud explains he knew it was a one-way trip, and tells Lindsey he loves her. As he waits for death, an NTI approaches Bud, takes his hand, and guides him to a massive alien city deep in the trench. Inside, the NTIs create an atmospheric pocket for Bud, allowing him to breathe normally. The NTIs then play back Bud's message to his wife and they look at each other with understanding.

On "Deep Core", the crew is waiting for rescue when they see a message from Bud that he met some friends and warns them to hold on. The base shakes and lights from the trench herald the arrival of the alien ship. It rises to the ocean's surface, with "Deep Core" and several of the surface ships run aground on its hull. The crew of "Deep Core" exit the platform, surprised they are not dead from the sudden decompression. They see Bud walking out of the alien ship and Lindsey races to hug him.

####Ad Astra (film)####
In the late 21st century, mysterious power surges threaten all human life. Major Roy McBride is informed that the surges have been traced to the "Lima Project", created 29 years earlier to search for intelligent life. Roy's father, presumed dead astronaut H. Clifford McBride, was the project's leader. Told his father may be alive, Roy agrees to travel to Mars to establish communication with him.

En route to the SpaceCom base on the Moon's far side, scavenger pirates ambush Roy and his colleague Pruitt. Pruitt gives Roy a message that if he fails to contact his father, the Lima Project station will have to be destroyed. Roy travels to Mars aboard Cepheus and is forced to investigate a biomedical research space station.

Another surge hits as the Cepheus is attempting to land on Mars. Roy assumes command and calmly lands the ship. In the underground SpaceCom base on Mars, Roy records voice messages to send to the Lima Project in hopes that Clifford will respond. Clifford does respond, and SpaceCom plans a mission to the Lima Project station but refuses to allow Roy to participate.

Roy is visited by facility director Helen Lantos, who reveals that her parents were Lima Project team members. She shows Roy classified footage revealing that Clifford's team mutinied and attempted to return to Earth, causing him to shut off their life-support systems; her parents were among those killed. She tells Roy that the Cepheus will go to the Lima Project station to destroy it with a nuclear weapon. The two decide that Roy should confront Clifford, and Lantos helps Roy gain access to the rocket launch site.

Roy climbs aboard as the rocket takes off and is immediately discovered by the crew, who are unintentionally killed in the confrontation. During the 79-day journey to Neptune, a solitary Roy reflects on his relationship with his father and with his estranged wife, Eve. Roy plants the nuclear weapon before encountering Clifford, the station's sole survivor. Clifford explains that the surges are coming from the ship's malfunctioning antimatter power source, which was damaged in the mutiny. Clifford admits to Roy that he never really cared about his family and does not consider Earth his home.

Roy copies data gathered by the Lima Project team and persuades Clifford to accompany him back to Earth. He arms the bomb and they climb out on the station's outer hull to return to the Cepheus. Clifford suddenly launches them into space using his spacesuit's thrusters. Clifford pleads for Roy to untether him; Roy reluctantly does so and watches his father drift away into space. Roy propels himself back to the Cepheus using his own spacesuit. Without enough fuel to return home, Roy relies on the shock wave from the nuclear explosion in the station to propel the Cepheus. The data retrieved from the Lima Project base suggests that humans are the only intelligent life in the galaxy. Roy returns to Earth with a newfound optimism.

####After Earth####


In the future on a human-populated space colony, Nova Prime, the S'krell extraterrestrial race attempts to take it over with creatures called Ursas, which hunt by "sensing" fear. Peacekeeping organization The Ranger Corps defeat them with a fear-suppressing technique called "ghosting," but not before an Ursa kills Senshi, the daughter of Rangers' leader Cypher Raige. Kitai, Cypher's son, blames himself for Senshi's death. He trains to become a Ranger like Cypher, but is rejected when he applies. Kitai's mother Faia convinces Cypher to take Kitai on his last voyage before retirement. During flight, however, their spaceship is caught in an asteroid shower, causing them to crash-land on Earth, which the humans evacuated a thousand years ago due to an environmental cataclysm.

The two manage to survive, but Cypher's legs are broken in the process, and the main beacon for firing a distress signal is damaged. Cypher instructs Kitai to locate the tail section of the ship, which broke off on entry to the atmosphere. Inside is the backup beacon, which they can use to signal Nova Prime. Cypher gives Kitai his weapon, a wrist communicator and six capsules of a fluid that enhances oxygen intake so he can breathe in Earth's low-oxygen atmosphere. Cypher warns him to avoid the highly evolved fauna and flora and be careful of violent thermal shifts. Kitai leaves to find the tail section, with Cypher guiding him through the communicator.

Kitai confronts many of the hazards his father warned about, including attacks from baboon-like monkeys, a venomous leech, a thermal shift, and the damaging of two of his capsules. After a story from Cypher about how he conceived "ghosting" to kill the Ursas, Kitai reaches a cliffside waterfall and Cypher learns about the broken capsules. Knowing that the only way to make it with the two capsules would be to skydive, Cypher orders Kitai to abort the mission, but Kitai, believing that Cypher still sees him as a disappointment, goes against the order after a monologue of him blaming Cypher's absence at home for Senshi's death. Kitai is captured by a large condor and his communicator is damaged. In the bird's nest, Kitai tries and fails to defend her chicks against big cats before escaping to a river, where he drifts on a raft. After a sleep where he dreams of Senshi, he wakes up to a thermal shift that nearly freezes him to death. Kitai is rescued when the bird, who had lost her brood when the cats attacked, sacrifices herself for him because Kitai tried to protect her chicks.

Kitai reaches the tail section and tries to activate the emergency beacon, but the atmosphere blocks the signal. Kitai learns that the ship's Ursa escaped and killed the rest of the crew. It attacks him, but Kitai is able to kill it using the "ghost" technique he learned from Cypher. Kitai climbs a volcano to fire the beacon, and he and Cypher get back to Nova Prime via a rescue team.

####Age of Dinosaurs####
Using flesh-regeneration machines, Genetisharp (a biotech company) creates a set of living dinosaurs and pterosaurs from a strand of DNA. The creatures escape and terrorize Los Angeles. These prehistoric animals include a giant Ceratosaurus, raptorlike Carnotaurus, building-climbing Spinosaurus, and brutal Pteranodon. The final battle is on the Hollywood Sign, and the dinosaurs are all destroyed when they are run into a collapsing building due to them being drawn there by scent.

####Akira (planned film)####
####Alien: Covenant####
####Aliens (film)####

Ellen Ripley has been in stasis for 57 years aboard an escape shuttle after destroying her ship, the "Nostromo", to escape an alien creature that slaughtered the rest of the crew. She is rescued and debriefed by her employers at the Weyland-Yutani Corporation, who are skeptical about her claim of alien eggs in a derelict ship on the exomoon LV-426,efn|The exomoon known as LV-426 is also referred to as Acheron.<ref name="SyFyNewt"/> since it is now the site of a terraforming colony.

After contact is lost with the colony, Weyland-Yutani representative Carter Burke and Colonial Marine Lieutenant Gorman ask Ripley to accompany them to investigate. Still traumatized by her alien encounter, she agrees on the condition that they exterminate the creatures. Ripley is introduced to the Colonial Marines on the spaceship "Sulaco" but is distrustful of their android, Bishop, because the android aboard the "Nostromo" betrayed its crew to protect the alien on company orders.

A dropship delivers the expedition to the surface of LV-426, where they find the battle-ravaged colony and two live alien facehuggers in containment tanks, but no bodies or colonists except for a traumatized young girl, nicknamed Newt. The team locates the colonists beneath the fusion-powered atmosphere processing station and heads to their location, descending into corridors covered in alien secretions. At the station center, the Marines find opened eggs and dead facehuggers alongside the cocooned colonists now serving as incubators for the creatures' offspring. The Marines kill an infant alien after it bursts from a colonist's chest, rousing several adult aliens who ambush the Marines and kill or capture many of them. When the inexperienced Gorman panics, Ripley assumes command, takes control of their armored personnel carrier, and rams the nest to rescue Corporal Dwayne Hicks and Privates Hudson and Vasquez. Hicks orders the dropship to recover the survivors, but a stowaway alien kills the pilots, and it crashes into the station. Almost out of ammunition and resources, the survivors barricade themselves inside the colony.

Ripley discovers that Burke ordered the colonists to investigate the derelict spaceship containing the alien eggs, intending to profit by recovering them for biological weapon research. Before she can expose him, Bishop informs the group that the dropship crash damaged the power-plant cooling system and the plant will soon overheat and explode, destroying the colony. He volunteers to travel to the colony transmitter and remotely pilot the "Sulaco"'s remaining dropship to the surface.

After falling asleep in the medical laboratory, Ripley and Newt awaken to find themselves trapped with the two released facehuggers. Ripley triggers a fire alarm to alert the Marines, who rescue them and kill the creatures. She accuses Burke of releasing the facehuggers to implant her and Newt with alien embryos, allowing him to smuggle them through Earth's quarantine. The power is suddenly cut, and aliens attack through the ceiling. In the ensuing firefight, the aliens kill Burke, subdue Hudson, and injure Hicks; the cornered Gorman and Vasquez sacrifice themselves to avoid capture. Newt is separated from Ripley and taken by the creatures. Ripley brings Hicks to Bishop in the second dropship, but she refuses to abandon Newt and arms herself before descending into the processing station hive alone to rescue her. During their escape, they encounter the alien queen surrounded by dozens of eggs, and when one begins to open, Ripley uses her weapons to destroy them all and the queen's ovipositor. Pursued by the enraged queen, Ripley and Newt join Bishop and Hicks on the dropship and escape moments before the station explodes, consuming the colony in a nuclear blast.

Aboard the "Sulaco", the group is ambushed by the queen, who stowed away in the dropship's landing gear. The queen tears Bishop in half and advances on Newt, but Ripley fights the creature with an exosuit cargo loader and expels it through an airlock into space while the damaged Bishop keeps Newt safe. Ripley, Newt, Hicks, and Bishop enter hypersleep for their return trip to Earth.

####Ant-Man (film)####

In 1989, scientist Hank Pym resigns from S.H.I.E.L.D. after discovering their attempt to replicate his Ant-Man shrinking technology. Believing the technology would be dangerous if replicated, Pym vows to hide it for as long as he lives. In the present day,efn|The events of the film are set a few months after the events of "Avengers: Age of Ultron" (2015).<ref name="/Film65Things1" /> Pym's estranged daughter, Hope van Dyne, and former protégé, Darren Cross, have forced him out of his company, Pym Technologies. Cross is close to perfecting a shrinking suit of his own, the Yellowjacket, which horrifies Pym.

Upon his release from prison, well-meaning thief Scott Lang moves in with his old cellmate, Luis. Lang visits his daughter Cassie unannounced and is chastised by his former wife Maggie and her police-detective fiancé, Paxton, for not providing child support. Unable to hold down a job because of his criminal record, Lang agrees to join Luis' crew and commit a burglary. Lang breaks into a house and cracks its safe, but only finds what he believes to be an old motorcycle suit, which he takes home. After trying the suit on, Lang accidentally shrinks himself to the size of an insect. Terrified by the experience, he returns the suit to the house, but is arrested on the way out. Pym, the homeowner, visits Lang in jail and smuggles the suit into his cell to help him break out.

Pym, who manipulated Lang through an unknowing Luis into stealing the suit as a test, wants Lang to become the new Ant-Man to steal the Yellowjacket from Cross. Having been spying on Cross after discovering his intentions, Hope and Pym train Lang to fight and to control ants. While Hope harbors resentment towards Pym about her mother Janet's death, he reveals that Janet, known as the Wasp, disappeared into a subatomic Quantum Realm while disabling a Soviet nuclear missile in 1987. Pym warns Lang that he could suffer a similar fate if he overrides his suit's regulator. They send him to steal a device that will aid their heist from the Avengers' headquarters, where he briefly fights Sam Wilson.

Cross perfects the Yellowjacket and hosts an unveiling ceremony at Pym Technologies' headquarters. Lang, along with his crew and a swarm of flying ants, infiltrates the building during the event, sabotages the company's servers, and plants explosives. When he attempts to steal the Yellowjacket, he, along with Pym and Hope, are captured by Cross, who intends to sell both the Yellowjacket and Ant-Man suits to Hydra. Lang breaks free and he and Hope dispatch most of the Hydra agents, though one flees with a vial of Cross' particles and Pym is shot. Lang pursues Cross, while the explosives detonate, imploding the building as Pym and Hope escape.

Cross dons the Yellowjacket and attacks Lang before Lang is arrested by Paxton. Cross takes Cassie hostage to lure Lang into another fight. Lang overrides the regulator and shrinks to subatomic size to penetrate Cross' suit and sabotage it to shrink uncontrollably, seemingly killing Cross. Lang disappears into the Quantum Realm but manages to reverse the effects and returns to the macroscopic world. Out of gratitude for Lang's heroism, Paxton covers for Lang to keep him out of prison. Seeing that Lang survived and returned from the Quantum Realm, Pym wonders if his wife is alive as well. Later, Lang meets up with Luis, who tells him that Wilson is looking for him.

In a mid-credits scene, Pym shows Hope a new Wasp prototype suit and offers it to her. In a post-credits scene, Steve Rogers and Wilson have Bucky Barnes in their custody. Unable to contact Tony Stark because of "the accords",efn|As depicted in "Captain America: Civil War" (2016) Wilson mentions that he knows someone who can help.

####Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania####
####Around the World Under the Sea####

After the destruction of much of coastal Turkey, a United States led crew of experts from around the world pilots a five-person submarine, traveling the world oceans, planting sensors on the ocean floor to warn scientists of any impending earthquakes.

Along the way the crew must deal with underwater exploding volcanoes and giant eels. In addition, the crew often does not get along especially when a crewmember wants to use the submarine to reach a shipwreck that holds a safe containing diamonds and pearls. The mission was made necessary as tidal waves have been causing destruction all over the world.

####Arrest Bulldog Drummond####
####Artemis Fowl (film)####
On the coast of Ireland, a media frenzy descends on Fowl Manor, where a stolen collection of world-famous relics is linked to wealthy businessman, Artemis Fowl. Arrested at the manor, Mulch Diggums is interrogated by British intelligence and claims that his employer has stolen the powerful "Aculos". Offering to prove the existence of magic, Diggums tells the story of Artemis Fowl, Jr.

Three days earlier, Artemis, a twelve-year-old genius, lives at Fowl Manor with his widowed father Artemis Sr, who goes missing from his boat, accused of the theft of several priceless artifacts found aboard. Artemis Jr receives a call from a hooded figure. Holding his father captive, the hooded figure gives Artemis three days to recover the Aculos, which Artemis Sr. has stolen and hidden. Domovoi "Dom" Butler, Artemis' bodyguard, shows him a hidden library where generations of Fowls have catalogued proof of the existence of magical creatures.

Deep underground inside the Earth's core is the Haven City – home to a civilization of fairies – Mulch, an oversized dwarf thief, encounters Lower Elements Police reconnaissance (LEPrecon) officer Holly Short as he is taken to prison. Commander Julius Root dispatches the LEPrecon force to search for the Aculos, the fairies' greatest resource which makes anyone teleport through worlds across universe and biggest source of heat and light energy to the fairies. Foaly, LEPrecon's centaur technical advisor, discovers an unauthorized creature has reached the surface. Holly is sent to investigate, despite the fact that her father, Beechwood Short, stole the Aculos and was killed. In Martina Franca, Italy, Holly intervenes as a rogue troll attacks a human wedding party. Using a "time freeze", LEPrecon subdues the troll and wipes the humans' memories.

Dom's twelve-year-old niece Juliet arrives at the manor. From his father's journal, Artemis learns that Beechwood brought the Aculos to Artemis Sr. to keep it from the hooded figure, revealed to be Opal Koboi, most powerful fairy warlord and once a ruthless dictator of Haven City who is now planning to wipe out humankind and establish fairy rule upon all the worlds. Artemis sends Dom to stakeout the Hill of Tara. Holly, determined to clear her father's name, disobeys orders and flies to the Hill of Tara, where she finds Beechwood's ID tag, but is captured by Dom and imprisoned inside the manor.

Root and an army of LEPrecon officers seal Fowl Manor in a time freeze, but Artemis and Dom fight them off using Holly's equipment. Artemis demands the Aculos in exchange for Holly's release, forbidding fairies to enter his home while he is alive. Bound by fairy rules, Root retrieves Mulch from prison, offering him a reduced sentence to infiltrate Fowl Manor. Mulch tunnels inside and breaks into Artemis Sr.'s safe, finding the Aculos, while Artemis frees Holly and asks for her help. Lieutenant Briar Cudgeon, a spy for Koboi, seizes command of LEPrecon and releases the captured troll into the house, jamming all magic inside.

Mulch swallows the Aculos as Artemis, Holly, Juliet, and Dom evade the troll, which is later killed by Dom. After killing it, Dom is mortally wounded. Against orders, Holly's fellow officers unblock her magic, and she revives Dom. Mulch and the LEPrecon army escape as the time freeze collapses. Left with the Aculos, Artemis refuses to give it to Koboi, and Holly agrees to use it to rescue Artemis' father. As Koboi attempts to kill Artemis Sr., Holly summons him to Fowl Manor.

Artemis Sr. tells Holly that her father gave his life to protect the Aculos, giving her a list of Koboi's accomplices. Holly returns the Aculos to Haven City, where Root, back in command, directs her to investigate every name on the list. Artemis calls Koboi, Artemis promises that after destroying her associates, he will come after her and restore the balance of the universe. Mulch's interrogator offers him freedom in exchange for help capturing Artemis Sr., but Mulch reveals that Artemis arranged his arrest to prove the incident to the authorities, and confirms the existence of magic on camera. As the interrogator calls for backup, the Fowls' helicopter rescues Mulch and, joined by Holly, they fly off for their next mission to hunt down Koboi's associates.

####Avatar (2009 film)####
####Avatar 3####
####Avatar: The Way of Water####
####Avengers: Age of Ultron####

In the Eastern European country of Sokovia, the Avengers—Tony Stark, Thor, Bruce Banner, Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, and Clint Barton—raid a Hydra facility commanded by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker, who has experimented on humans using the scepter previously wielded by Loki. They meet two of Strucker's test subjects—twins Pietro (who has superhuman speed) and Wanda Maximoff (who has telepathic and telekinetic abilities)—and apprehend Strucker, while Stark retrieves Loki's scepter.

Stark and Banner discover an artificial intelligence within the scepter's gem, and secretly decide to use it to complete Stark's "Ultron" global defense program. The unexpectedly sentient Ultron, believing he must eradicate humanity to save Earth, eliminates Stark's A.I. J.A.R.V.I.S. and attacks the Avengers at their headquarters. Escaping with the scepter, Ultron uses the resources in Strucker's Sokovia base to upgrade his rudimentary body and build an army of robot drones. Having killed Strucker, he recruits the Maximoffs, who hold Stark responsible for their parents' deaths by his company's weapons, and goes to the base of arms dealer Ulysses Klaue in Johannesburg to get vibranium. The Avengers attack Ultron and the Maximoffs, but Wanda subdues them with haunting visions, causing Banner to turn into the Hulk and rampage until Stark stops him with his anti-Hulk armor.<!-- Please note the term "Hulkbuster" is not used in the film -->efn|While the name of the anti-Hulk armor, usually referred to as the "Hulkbuster" in comic books, is not spoken in the film, its deployment system and containment cell are code-named "Veronica".<ref name=HulkbusterOfficial /><ref name="Veronica" /> Director Joss Whedon said the name alludes to the character Veronica Lodge from Archie Comics: "I just decided to call it Veronica because [Bruce Banner] used to be in love with a girl named Betty and Veronica is the opposite of that," making the connection to Archie's love interest, Betty Cooper.<ref name="Veronica" />

A worldwide backlash over the resulting destruction, and the fears Wanda's hallucinations incited, send the team into hiding at Barton's farmhouse. Thor departs to consult with Dr. Erik Selvig on the apocalyptic future he saw in his hallucination, while Nick Fury arrives and encourages the team to form a plan to stop Ultron. In Seoul, Ultron uses Loki's scepter to enslave the team's friend Helen Cho. They use her synthetic-tissue technology, vibranium, and the scepter's gem to craft a new body. As Ultron uploads himself into the body, Wanda is able to read his mind; discovering his plan for human extinction, the Maximoffs turn against Ultron. Rogers, Romanoff, and Barton fight Ultron and retrieve the synthetic body, but Ultron captures Romanoff. The Avengers fight among themselves when Stark and Banner secretly upload J.A.R.V.I.S.—who is still working after hiding from Ultron inside the Internet—into the synthetic body.

Thor returns to help activate the body, based on his vision that the gem on its brow is the Mind Stone, one of the six Infinity Stones, the most powerful objects in existence. This "Vision" earns their trust by being worthy of lifting Thor's hammer, Mjölnir. Vision and the Maximoffs go with the Avengers to Sokovia, where Ultron has used the remaining vibranium to build a machine to lift a large part of the capital city skyward, intending to crash it into the ground to cause global extinction. Banner rescues Romanoff, who awakens the Hulk for the battle. The Avengers fight Ultron's army while Fury arrives in a Helicarrier with Maria Hill, James Rhodes, and S.H.I.E.L.D. agents to evacuate civilians.

Pietro dies when he shields Barton from gunfire, and a vengeful Wanda abandons her post to destroy Ultron's primary body, which allows one of his drones to activate the machine. The city plummets, but Stark and Thor overload the machine and shatter the landmass. In the aftermath, the Hulk, unwilling to endanger Romanoff by being with her, departs in a Quinjet, while Vision confronts and destroys Ultron's last remaining body. Later, with the Avengers having established a new base run by Fury, Hill, Cho, and Selvig, Thor returns to Asgard to learn more about the forces he suspects have manipulated recent events. As Stark leaves and Barton retires, Rogers and Romanoff prepare to train new Avengers: Rhodes, Vision, Sam Wilson, and Wanda.

In a mid-credits scene, Thanos dons a gauntlet<!-- Note: the gauntlet is not named in the film -->efn|The Infinity Gauntlet seen at the end of the film is not the same as the one seen in Odin's vault in Asgard in "Thor" (2011).<ref name="Gauntlet" /> The Asgard Gauntlet is revealed to be a fake in "Thor: Ragnarok" (2017).<ref name="FakeGauntlet" /> and vows to retrieve the Infinity Stones himself.

####Avengers: Infinity War####
####Back to the Future####

In 1985, teenager Marty McFly lives in Hill Valley, California, with his depressed alcoholic mother, Lorraine; his older siblings, who are professional and social failures; and his meek father, George, who is bullied by his supervisor, Biff Tannen. After Marty's band fails a music audition, he confides in his girlfriend, Jennifer Parker, that he fears becoming like his parents despite his ambitions.

That night, Marty meets his eccentric scientist friend, Emmett "Doc" Brown, in the Twin Pines mall parking lot. Doc unveils a time machine built from a modified DeLorean, powered by plutonium he swindled from Libyan terrorists. After Doc inputs a destination time of November 5, 1955 (the day he first conceived his time travel invention), the terrorists arrive unexpectedly and gun him down. Marty flees in the DeLorean, inadvertently activating time travel when he reaches convert|88|mph|abbr=off|sp=us.

Arriving in 1955, Marty discovers he has no plutonium to return. While exploring a burgeoning Hill Valley, Marty encounters his teenage father and discovers Biff was bullying George even then. George falls into the path of an oncoming car while spying on the teenage Lorraine changing clothes, and Marty is knocked unconscious while saving him. He wakes to find himself tended to by Lorraine, who becomes infatuated with him. Marty tracks down and convinces a younger Doc that he is from the future, but Doc explains the only source available in 1955 capable of generating the power required for time travel is a lightning bolt. Marty shows Doc a flyer from the future that documents an upcoming lightning strike at the town's courthouse. As Marty's siblings begin to fade from a photo he is carrying with him, Doc realizes Marty's actions are altering the future and jeopardizing his existence; Lorraine was supposed to tend to George instead of Marty after the car accident. Early attempts to get his parents acquainted fail, and Lorraine's infatuation with Marty deepens.

Lorraine asks Marty to the school dance, and he plots to feign inappropriate advances on her, allowing George to intervene and rescue her, but the plan goes awry when Biff's gang locks Marty in the trunk of the performing band's car, while Biff forces himself onto Lorraine. George arrives expecting to find Marty but is assaulted by Biff. After Biff hurts Lorraine, an enraged George knocks him unconscious and escorts the grateful Lorraine to the dance. The band frees Marty from their car, but the lead guitarist injures his hand in the process, so Marty takes his place, performing while George and Lorraine share their first kiss. With his future no longer in jeopardy, Marty heads to the courthouse to meet Doc.

Doc discovers a letter from Marty warning him about his future and rips it, worried about the consequences. To save Doc, Marty recalibrates the DeLorean to return ten minutes before he left the future. The lightning strikes, sending Marty back to 1985, but the DeLorean breaks down, forcing Marty to run back to the mall. He arrives as Doc is being shot. While Marty grieves at his side, Doc sits up, revealing he pieced Marty's note back together and wore a bulletproof vest. He takes Marty home and departs to 2015 in the DeLorean. Marty wakes the next morning to discover his father is now a confident and successful science fiction author, his mother is fit and happy, his siblings are successful, and Biff is a servile valet in George's employ. As Marty reunites with Jennifer, Doc suddenly reappears in the DeLorean, insisting they return with him to the future to save their children from terrible fates.efn|As depicted in "Back to the Future Part&nbsp;II" (1989).

####Back to the Future Part II####

On October 26, 1985, Dr. Emmett "Doc" Brown arrives unexpectedly in the DeLorean time machine. He persuades Marty McFly and his girlfriend, Jennifer Parker, to travel to the future with himrefn|group=N|As depicted at the end of "Back to the Future". and help their future children, with Biff Tannen witnessing their departure. They arrive on October 21, 2015, where Doc incapacitates Jennifer electronically leaving her asleep in an alley, explaining that she should not have too much knowledge of future events. He has Marty pose as his son and lookalike Marty Jr. to refuse an offer to participate in a robbery with Biff's grandson Griff, thus saving Marty Jr. from prison.

Marty switches places with Marty Jr. and refuses Griff's offer, but Griff goads Marty into a fight, and a subsequent hoverboard chase ensues. Griff and his gang are arrested, saving Marty's future children. Before rejoining Doc, Marty purchases an almanac containing the results of major sporting events from 1950 to 2000. Doc discovers it and warns Marty about profiting from time travel. Before Doc can adequately dispose of it, they are interrupted by the police, who have found Jennifer incapacitated and are taking her to her 2015 home. They pursue, as does the elderly Biff, who has overheard their conversation and retrieved the discarded almanac.

Jennifer wakes up in her 2015 home and hides from the McFly family. She overhears that her future self's life with Marty is not what she expected, due to his involvement in an automobile accident. She witnesses Marty being goaded by his co-worker, Douglas Needles, into a shady business deal, resulting in Marty's firing. Jennifer tries to escape the house but faints after encountering her 2015 self. While Marty and Doc attend to her, Biff steals the time machine to give the almanac to his younger self, then returns to 2015. Marty, Doc, and an unconscious Jennifer return to 1985, unaware of Biff's actions. They leave Jennifer on her front porch.

The 1985 they return to has changed dramatically, with Biff now one of the country's wealthiest and most corrupt men. He has turned Hill Valley into a chaotic dystopia, secretly killed Marty's father, George, in 1973, and forced Marty's mother, Lorraine, to marry him. Doc has also been committed to a mental hospital. Doc deduces that old Biff took the time machine to give his younger self the almanac, and Marty learns from the alternate 1985 Biff that he received it on November 12, 1955. Biff also helped Richard Nixon remain President of the United States until at least 1985. Biff's effect on history affected the whole world – in this version of history, the Vietnam War was also still ongoing by May 1983. Biff tries to kill Marty, but Marty flees and travels to 1955 with Doc.

Marty secretly follows the 1955 Biff and watches him receive the almanac from his 2015 self. Marty then follows him to the high school dance, carefully avoiding interrupting the events from his previous visit. After several fruitless attempts, Marty finally gets the almanac, leaving Biff to crash into a manure truck.

Marty burns the almanac, nullifying the changes to the timeline that it had caused, as Doc hovers above in the time machine. Before Marty can join him, the DeLorean is struck by lightning and disappears. A Western Union courier arrives immediately after and delivers a letter to Marty; it is from Doc, who tells him that the lightning strike transported him 70 years in the past to 1885.refn|group=N|The letter's contents are later explored further in "Back to the Future Part III". Marty races back into town to find the 1955 Doc, who had just helped Marty to return to 1985. Shocked by Marty's sudden reappearance, Doc faints.

####Back to the Future Part III####

In 1955, moments after witnessing Emmett "Doc" Brown disappear in his DeLorean, Marty McFly learns that Doc was sent to 1885.refn|group=N|As depicted at the end of "Back to the Future Part II" (1989). Using information from Doc's 1885 letter, Marty and the 1955 Doc find and repair the DeLorean so Marty can return to 1985. However after finding it, Marty comes across a tombstone with Doc's name, with the inscription stating that Doc was shot by Biff Tannen's great-grandfather, Buford "Mad Dog" Tannen, six days after writing the letter.

Despite the letter's warnings, Marty travels back to 1885 to save Doc, arriving amidst a cavalry pursuit of Native Americans, tearing the car's fuel line in the process. Chased by a bear, he is knocked out and found by his Irish-born great-great-grandparents Seamus and Maggie McFly, who allow him to stay for the night. The next morning under the alias Clint Eastwood, he arrives in Hill Valley but runs afoul of Buford and his gang. Buford tries hanging Marty, but Doc rescues him. Doc agrees to leave 1885 after learning his fate; but without gasoline, the DeLorean cannot reach its required convert|88|mph|km/h. He thus proposes using a steam locomotive to push the DeLorean to that speed.

While inspecting a rail spur, Doc saves the town’s new schoolteacher Clara Clayton from falling into the ravine, averting her death from the original timeline. They fall in love at first sight and form a close relationship. At a town festival for the courthouse, Buford tries shooting Doc, but Marty thwarts him. Buford then challenges him to a showdown in two days; an angry Marty accepts, believing that he and Doc would have left by then. Doc urges Marty not to react to provocation, letting slip that Marty has a life-changing accident in the future.

Although he is reluctant to return to 1985, Doc eventually visits Clara to end their relationship and bid her goodbye. However, feeling insulted, she dismisses his story about being from the future. Despondent, he goes on a drinking binge. In the morning, Buford arrives for Marty, who sees his alias appear in the photograph of the tombstone and refuses to duel. Doc passes out after downing just one shot and eventually revives but is taken hostage by Buford's gang, forcing Marty into the duel. Fooling Buford into believing he was fatally shot, Marty knocks him into a wagon of manure. Buford is promptly arrested for an earlier robbery.

On the train to San Francisco, Clara learns how heartbroken Doc is, pulls the train's emergency brake, and runs back to town. She finds the model of the time machine at his shop. Realising Doc's story was true all along, she rides back to intercept him. Hijacking the locomotive, Doc and Marty push the DeLorean along the spur line at increasing speed. Clara boards the locomotive and tries to reach the car, but she falls, hanging by her dress. Marty, in the DeLorean, passes his hoverboard to Doc, and he uses it to save Clara and carry her to safety. Marty hits 88 mph and vanishes as the locomotive plunges off the unfinished bridge and explodes in the ravine.

Arriving in 1985, Marty escapes from the powerless DeLorean just before an oncoming freight train destroys it. Reuniting with Jennifer, he declines a street race with Needles, thus avoiding the future accident Doc warned him about. Jennifer opens the fax message she kept from 2015 and watches as the text regarding Marty's firing disappears.

As Marty and Jennifer examine the DeLorean wreckage, a hi-tech steam locomotive suddenly appears, operated by Doc, Clara, and their children. Doc gives Marty a photo of them standing next to the town clock in 1885. When Jennifer asks Doc about the blank fax, he says it means that their future has not yet been written and encourages them to make it a good one. Doc and his family bid farewell and fly off in the locomotive to an unknown time.

####Batman vs. Two-Face####
Batman and Robin meet Gotham District Attorney Harvey Dent at a top-secret demonstration hosted by Professor Hugo Strange and Dr. Harleen Quinzel. Strange operates a machine called the "Evil Extractor" designed to siphon evil from criminals and store it in a vat. The containment vat explodes, drenching Dent with liquefied evil, which scars half his face and changes his personality, turning him into the criminal "Two-Face". After being thwarted by Batman and Robin a number of times, Dent is eventually given reconstructive surgery, seemingly erasing the Two-Face personality, and allowed to resume crimefighting as the assistant to the Assistant District Attorney.

Six months later, Batman and Robin capture King Tut and his henchmen for stealing a biplane. Batman, Robin, Commissioner Gordon, and Chief O'Hara interrogate Tut's alter ego, Professor McElroy, with O'Hara constantly hitting the professor on the head with his truncheon to switch his personality. At his trial, McElroy admits his guilt, ready to suffer the minimum penalty of being rehabilitated in prison. After the sentencing, Dent and Bruce Wayne share a highball just before Dent leaves to attend a charity for underprivileged twins at the Winning Pair casino.

A package arrives at Gordon's office; a World Atlas book marked for Batman, with its pages eaten away in three holes. After investigating Bookworm as a suspect, Batman and Robin deduce that the stolen books were all about duality and their suspicions turn to Two-Face. They head to an abandoned sign factory, with Two-Face and his henchmen waiting for them. After defeating the goons, Two-Face pins them with a large number two and the flip of his coin landing on the right side spares their lives. Once they have left, Batman theorizes that several criminals are uniting against Dent for foiling their schemes.

Following Dent back to the lab, Robin is ambushed by Two-Face. Strange corrupts him with some of the liquid evil and Batman is forced to fight and subdue the hypnotized Robin. Robin is cured at the Batcave and they follow Two-Face to the Winning Pair Casino, where he is revealed to be Dent. Once Batman and Robin are strapped to a large silver dollar, Two-Face unmasks Batman as Bruce and deduces Robin's true identity as Dick Grayson. He invites several other villains to bid for the knowledge of Batman and Robin's identities.

With Catwoman's help, Batman and Robin defeat the villains, but Two-Face gets away on the biplane stolen by Tut, using the evil gas to corrupt the citizens of Gotham City. Batman and Robin shoot him down and with Batman's help, Dent regains self-control, defeating Two-Face for good as they escape the factory.

The next morning, Batman and Robin use the Batwing to cure the infected citizens. Months later, Dent holds a bachelor auction at Wayne Manor with Batman as the first bachelor. The first bid comes from Catwoman.

####Batman: Return of the Caped Crusaders####

At Wayne Manor, Bruce Wayne and Dick Grayson watch their favorite show, "Gotham Palace". During the programming, a band that was supposed to play on the show is revealed to be hidden and replaced by the Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler, and Catwoman. Bruce and Dick suit up as Batman and Robin and head to the Gotham City Police Department, where they receive a riddle from Commissioner Gordon and Chief O'Hara.

They discover that the villains are robbing the Acme Atomic Energy Laboratory of the Replication Ray, which can duplicate anything. After a brief fight, the criminals manage to escape Batman, but leave behind a clue that leads Batman and Robin to their lair in an abandoned TV dinner factory. While discussing what to do with the Replication Ray, Catwoman reveals her plan to make Batman join their side with a scratch from a substance called "Batnip". After Batman and Robin break in, they are defeated by the criminals and trapped on a frozen food tray heading towards a large oven. Catwoman uses her Batnip on Batman, but he is seemingly unaffected by it. The two escape the trap after the villains leave the factory.

Back at Wayne Manor, Bruce starts showing signs of aggression after Harriet Cooper nearly discovers the Batcave. He blames Alfred Pennyworth for the incident and fires him, leaving the butler to wander on the streets homeless. After days of not finding Joker, Penguin, Riddler, and Catwoman, Batman deduces that the four are no longer on Earth and have hijacked a space station. He and Robin go into space with the help of their Bat-Rocket. At the space station, Joker, Penguin, and Riddler betray Catwoman, distrusting her due to her feelings for Batman. They try to throw her out into space, but she is rescued by Batman and Robin and aids them in defeating her former allies for revenge. Batman savagely beats the three men and recovers the Replication Ray, but Catwoman escapes in an escape pod in the process.

After the mission, Dick expresses concern towards Bruce's increasingly hostile behavior. Bruce ejects Dick from the house and takes a break from being Batman, resulting in a crime spree in Gotham City. A few weeks later, Batman returns to the Gotham City Police Department and blames the police for the increase in crime. He uses the Replication Ray on himself to replace most of the government, jobs, and citizens in Gotham with his replicas, planning to take over the world. Dick, realizing that the Batnip had a delayed effect on Batman, goes to Catwoman's lair as Robin to request her help in curing Batman. She agrees, as the effects of the Batnip were more severe than she had planned.

The two take the Catmobile to the Batcave, where Catwoman attempts to give Batman the antidote. Having anticipated this, Batman reveals that he took the Bat Anti-Antidote, nullifying Catwoman's antidote. Batman defeats the two in a fight and leaves them to die in the Atomic Pile, but they survive thanks to Robin's Bat Anti Isotope Spray. Knowing they cannot take on an army of Batmen by themselves, Robin and Catwoman disguise themselves as prison inspectors and break most of Batman's rogues gallery from Gotham State Penitentiary by claiming to Warden Crichton that the ball and chains and pickaxes are not in good shape, replacing them with versions that carry the villains out of the prison. While a prison guard tells Crichton that Joker, Penguin, and Riddler did not escape, the three of them mysteriously turn into a pile of dust.

The two confront Batman and his army on the "Gotham Palace" set, but they still lose even with the help of the criminals. Before Batman kills Robin and Catwoman, a disguised Alfred arrives and gives Batman a strong enough antidote to counter the Bat Anti-Antidote. Batman returns to normal, and the rest of his clones turn to dust as the Replication Ray was not strong enough to make perfect clones. Batman realizes that his behavior change was used as a distraction by Joker, Penguin, and Riddler, and that the ones they arrested were copies; the real ones have been using the opportunity to rob the Gotham Art Museum. Batman, Robin, and Catwoman (who came as vengeance for what they did at the space station) chase them to Penguin's blimp, where the villainous trio is defeated after they are knocked off the blimp to a safe location to be arrested. Catwoman tries to escape with the stolen paintings, but Batman recovers them. Unwilling to be imprisoned, Catwoman allows herself to fall into a smokestack.

Bruce and Dick then throw Harriet a surprise birthday party, acting as if that is the secret they have been hiding from her. During the party, Bruce and Dick are called away by the Bat-Signal.

####Battle Beyond the Stars####

The farming world Akir is threatened by the tyrannical warlord Sador, who rules the sinister Malmori Empire and, his body parts deteriorating, is capturing and appropriating them from others. Sador's huge Hammerhead mounts a "Stellar Converter", a weapon that turns planets into small stars. He demands that the peaceful Akira submit to him when he returns in "seven risings". Zed, last of the famous Akira Corsairs, is old. He suggests they hire mercenaries to protect them. Since Akir lacks valuable resources, its people can offer only food and shelter in payment. Unable to go in person, Zed offers his ship. The ship is fast and well-armed, but, despite its AI navigation/tactical computer Nell, cannot defeat Sador alone. Shad, a young man who has piloted the ship and is well known to Nell, volunteers.

Seeking weapons, Shad goes to the space station of Doctor Hephaestus, an old friend of Zed. The station is populated mostly by androids, except for two humans: Hephaestus, whose numerous life support-systems have turned him into a cyborg, and his beautiful daughter Nanelia, who looks after him and the androids. The doctor wants Shad to mate with his daughter, by force if necessary. Shad cannot bring himself to abandon his people; he persuades Nanelia to help him escape. She follows in her own ship; although she has no weapons, her highly advanced computer systems might be useful. The two split up to look for more mercenaries.

Shad encounters Cowboy, a freighter-pilot from Earth who is ambushed by Space Jackers while delivering a shipment of laser-handguns to the planet Umateal. Shad fights off the Jackers, thus saving Cowboy's life twice over; they arrive at Umateal just in time to watch Sador destroy the planet with his Stellar Converter. Lacking the fuel to carry his weapons back home, Cowboy offers them to Akir instead. Shad talks Cowboy into sharing his gunslinging experience with the Akira.

Later, Shad meets a set of five alien clones who share a group consciousness named Nestor. They admit their life is incredibly dull, since their whole race shares one mind. In order to be entertained, they have sent five members to join Shad's cause. Nestor does not require payment, saying they are completely self-sufficient. Next, Shad recruits Gelt, a wealthy assassin who cannot show himself on any civilized planet for fear of retribution. Gelt offers his services in return for being allowed to live peacefully among the Akira. Gelt's ship is highly maneuverable and well-armed. On his way back to Akir, Shad is approached by Saint-Exmin of the Valkyrie warriors. She is a headstrong woman looking to prove herself in battle. She pilots a small, but extremely fast ship with enhanced firepower. Shad finds her annoying and wishes she would go away, but she tags along.

While waiting for Shad's return, Nanelia is captured by a reptilian slaver named Cayman of the Lazuli. Cayman possesses a powerful ship with an eclectic crew of aliens. She explains to Cayman that they are seeking mercenaries for a war against Sador. Cayman takes up their cause in return for the head of Sador, who destroyed Cayman's homeworld years ago. Back on Akir, Shad's sister Mol is captured by two Malmori warriors with the intent to rape her. As Shad and Company return, their approach frightens the Malmori into attempting to escape. Mol, in retaliation, interferes with their controls, allowing Gelt the opportunity to destroy their ship, killing all three. Upon reaching the planet's surface, the heroes are greeted with caution by the natives, who are wary of violent species. When Sador returns, his Malmori forces are intercepted by Shad's hired warriors. Gelt dogfights his way to Hammerhead, which shoots him down. Cowboy and the laser-toting Akira ward off an invasion backed by a Malmori Sonic Tank. Many of Sador's troops are killed, and their Sonic Tank is destroyed; however, many Akira die as well, including Zed.

After surviving an assassination attempt by Nestor, Sador launches the remainder of his fleet in a retaliatory strike against Akir. Saint-Exmin blows herself up to knock out Sador's Stellar Converter. Although Sador's aerospace forces are wiped out, Hammerhead picks off all the remaining mercenaries with laser battery-fire and nuclear missiles. Only Nell, piloted by Shad and Nanelia, survives the Malmori onslaught. Crippled and unable to fight, Nell is captured by Hammerhead's tractor beam. Nanelia and Shad activate Nell's self-destruct program, then flee their ship in an escape pod. Sador commands Nell to surrender. Instead she detonates, causing his Stellar Converter to backfire and disintegrate Hammerhead. As Shad and Nanelia return to Akir, Nanelia despairs over their friends' deaths. Shad shares with her the teachings of Akir's "Varda": nobody is truly dead when they have been loved and are celebrated by the living. The Akira will always remember the sacrifices made by the mercenaries, who will forever be honored in the legends of Akir.

####Battle for the Planet of the Apes####
Told as a flashback to the early 21st century, with a wraparound sequence narrated by the orangutan Lawgiver in "North America – 2670 A.D.", this sequel follows the chimpanzee Caesar years after a global nuclear war has destroyed human civilization. Living with his wife, Lisa and their son, Cornelius, Caesar creates a new society while trying to cultivate peace between the apes and remaining humans. Caesar is opposed by an aggressive gorilla general named Aldo, who wants to imprison the humans who freely roam Ape City while doing menial labor.

After defusing followers of Aldo who attacked a human teacher Abe for saying "No" to apes, Caesar ponders if his own parents could have taught him how to make things better. MacDonald, Caesar's human assistant and the younger brother of MacDonald (from "Conquest of the Planet of the Apes") reveals to Caesar that his brother told him of archived footage of Cornelius and Zira within the underground, now radioactive ruins of what is known as the Forbidden City from the last film. Caesar travels with MacDonald and his orangutan advisor Virgil to the Forbidden City to find the archives.

It is revealed that mutated and radiation-scarred humans are living within the city, under the command of Governor Kolp, the man who once captured Caesar. Caesar and his party view the recordings of his parents, learning about the future and Earth's eventual destruction before they are forced to flee when Kolp's soldiers hunt them. Fearing the mutant humans may attack Ape City, Caesar reports his discoveries. When Caesar calls MacDonald and a select group of humans to the meeting, Aldo leads the gorillas away.

Kolp's scouts find Ape City. Believing Caesar is planning to finish off all mutant humans, Kolp declares war on Ape City despite his assistant Méndez's attempt to get him to see reason. Aldo plots a coup d'état in order for the gorillas to take control. Cornelius overhears from a nearby tree, but is critically wounded when Aldo spots him and hacks off the tree branch he is on with his sword. The next day, after a gorilla scouting pair are attacked by Kolp's men, Aldo takes advantage of a grieving Caesar's absence to have all humans corralled while looting the armory. Cornelius eventually dies from his wounds, leaving a devastated Caesar with the revelation that Cornelius was not hurt by humans.

When Kolp's ragtag force launches their attack, Caesar orders the defenders to fall back. Finding Caesar lying among dozens of fallen apes, Kolp expresses his intention to personally kill him. The apes, however, are merely feigning death and launch a counterattack that captures most of the mutant humans. Kolp and his remaining forces try to escape, only to be slaughtered by Aldo's troops once they are out in the open.

Aldo confronts Caesar about releasing the corralled local humans and orders the gorillas to kill them. When Caesar shields the humans and Aldo threatens him, Virgil, having learned the truth from MacDonald, reveals Aldo's role in Cornelius's death. Enraged with Aldo for breaking their most sacred law, "ape shall never kill ape", Caesar pursues him up a large tree, their confrontation resulting in Aldo falling to his death.

With Caesar realizing that apes are no different than their former human slaveowners, he agrees to MacDonald's request for humans to be treated as equals, co-existing in a new society. They store their guns in the armory; Caesar and Virgil reluctantly explain to the armory's overseer, an orangutan named Mandemas, that they will still need their weapons for future conflicts and can only wait for the day when they will no longer need them.

The scene returns to the Lawgiver, saying it has now been over 600 years since Caesar's death. His audience is revealed to be a group of young humans and apes, the Lawgiver noting that their society still waits for a day when their world will no longer need weapons, while they "wait with hope". A closeup of a statue of Caesar shows a single tear falling from one eye.

####Battleship (film)####
In 2005, potentially habitable "Planet G" is discovered, and in 2006, a communications array to reach any extraterrestrial life is built in Oahu. There, Alex Hopper is arrested while attempting to impress Sam Shane, daughter of Admiral Terrance Shane. Alex’s brother, Commander Stone Hopper, forces Alex to join the U.S. Navy. Six years later, Alex is a lieutenant aboard the USS|John Paul Jones|DDG-53|6 and in a relationship with Sam, a physical therapist working with wounded veterans. While Stone is a model officer commanding the USS|Sampson|DDG-102|6, the rebellious Alex is facing a disciplinary discharge.

During the 2012 RIMPAC exercise, five alien spacecraft arrive. Their communications ship hits a satellite and crashes through the Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong, while the others plunge into the waters off Hawaii. "Sampson", "John Paul Jones", and Japanese destroyer JDS ship|JDS|Myōkō||2 discover a floating structure that generates a force shield isolating the Hawaiian Islands and the three destroyers from the rest of the world, and jamming all radar and communications inside. Three alien warships surface and open fire; "Myōkō" is destroyed, "Sampson" is lost with all hands including Stone, and "John Paul Jones"’ command crew are killed, with Alex reluctantly assuming command. "John Paul Jones" disengages to recover "Myōkō"’s survivors, including Captain Yugi Nagata, while alien drones destroy Oahu’s military installations and roads, ignoring all targets that do not pose a threat.

Hiking near the communications array, Sam and retired U.S. Army lieutenant colonel and double amputee Mick Canales discover the aliens' presence. They encounter scientist Cal Zapata, realizing the aliens have taken over the array to re-establish communications with their home planet. "John Paul Jones"’ crew captures an alien which telepathically links with Alex, revealing their history of destroying worlds. Other aliens retrieve their comrade while another sabotages the ship. Its armored suit proves impervious to small-arms fire but is obliterated by the destroyer’s 5-inch gun, and the captured alien's helmet reveals their eyes are sensitive to sunlight. Ashore, Sam, Mick, and Zapata recover his spectrum analyzer, using it to radio "John Paul Jones" that the aliens will contact their planet when the facility’s satellite is in position in four hours.

As night falls, Captain Nagata suggests using the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration tsunami warning buoys around Hawaii to track the warships without radar, allowing "John Paul Jones" to destroy two of them. The third proves too elusive, so they lure it into facing east as the sun rises. Alex and Nagata shoot out its bridge windows, blinding its crew with sunlight as "John Paul Jones" destroys the ship. The destroyer attempts to target the communications array, but is sunk by drones; Alex, Nagata, and several other sailors barely escape.

The survivors commandeer the decommissioned World War II battleship USS|Missouri|BB-63|6 with the aid of retired veterans. The floating structure is revealed to be a giant mothership, but "Missouri" disables the force field while Admiral Shane summons fighter jets from the aircraft carrier USS|Ronald Reagan. The battleship’s turret carrying the ship’s last shell is disabled, forcing the sailors to carry it to another weapon system. Sam, Mick and Cal stall the aliens at the array, where Mick kills an alien soldier. Alex uses the final shell to destroy the array, rendering the "Missouri" defenseless, but the mothership’s drones are destroyed by Royal Australian Air Force Boeing F/A-18 fighter jets which carpet bomb the mothership, eliminating the alien threat.

Alex is promoted to lieutenant commander and presented with a Silver Star and his brother's posthumous Navy Cross. Admiral Shane promises Alex will soon have a ship of his own, while he is also invited to become a Navy SEAL. Alex asks him for Sam’s hand in marriage, and the admiral initially refuses, but invites Alex to lunch.

In a post-credits scene, three teenagers in Scotland find another piece of the alien communications spacecraft, and with the help of an adult manage to open it. The scene ends with the four of them fleeing in terror as an alien crawls out.

####Beneath the Planet of the Apes####
Following the events of "Planet of the Apes", time-displaced astronaut Taylor and the mute Nova travel through the desert of the Forbidden Zone in search of a new life far away from Ape City. Without warning, fire shoots up from the ground and deep chasms open. Confused by this, Taylor investigates a cliff wall and disappears through it before Nova's eyes. Unable to reach him, Nova is left alone.

After being sent to search for Taylor and his crew, a second spaceship crash-lands on the Forbidden Zone. Brent, the only survivor, notes he is in the year 3955, but assumes he has travelled to another planet. After burying his Skipper, he encounters Nova and notices she is wearing Taylor's dog tags. Hoping Taylor is still alive, he rides with her to Ape City and is shocked to discover the simian civilization. The gorilla General Ursus leads a rally for the apes to conquer the Forbidden Zone and use it as a potential food source, against the objections of the orangutan Dr. Zaius. Brent is wounded by a gorilla soldier and taken by Nova to the home of the chimpanzees Cornelius and Zira, who treat his wound and tell him of their time with Taylor.

Attempting to flee the city, Brent and Nova are captured by gorillas. Ursus orders they be used for target practice, but Zira helps them escape. They hide in a cave that turns out to be the ruins of the Queensboro Plaza station of the New York City Subway. Brent realizes he is in Earth's post-apocalyptic future. After following a humming sound deeper into the tunnels, Brent becomes agitated and erratic and attempts to kill Nova, quickly stopping and backing away to another room. Entering the remains of St. Patrick's Cathedral, he finds a population of telepathic humans who worship an ancient nuclear bomb.

Brent and Nova are captured and interrogated by the telepaths. They turn out to be descendants of the human survivors of a nuclear holocaust. They mutated over generations and claim to be a peaceful society, despite using mind-control and illusion on their enemies. The mutants force Brent into revealing the apes' march on the Forbidden Zone. Their attempts to repel the invaders with illusions of fire and other horrors ultimately fail, as Zaius sees through them. With the apes closing in, the telepaths plan to detonate their "Divine Bomb" as a last resort, holding a religious ritual. During the ritual, the telepaths remove their faces to reveal horrible disfigurements of white skin, scarring and vascular varicose disease.

Brent is separated from Nova and taken to a cell where he finds Taylor. One mutant, explaining that they cannot let them leave the city alive, uses his telepathic powers to force Brent and Taylor to fight each other. Nova escapes her guard and runs to the cell, screaming her first word: "Taylor!" This breaks the mutant's concentration, freeing the astronauts from his control long enough for them to kill the mutant. Taylor recognizes the bomb's insigna ""'AΩ""' as a "doomsday bomb", which has a cobalt casing-capable of destroying the entire planet.

The apes invade the subterranean city, making their way to the cathedral; many of the mutants are either captured, killed, or die by suicide. After Nova is killed by a gorilla in the midst of the chaos, Taylor and Brent reach the cathedral as Mendez, the telepaths' leader, is shot dead after raising the bomb into activation position. The humans attempt to stop Ursus from accidentally setting off the weapon, but Taylor is shot in the chest as his pleas to Zaius fall on deaf ears. Zaius refuses to listen and decries humanity's violence and the ruination of all things. When Brent is gunned down after killing Ursus, the mortally wounded Taylor curses Zaius as he collapses and dies bringing his hand down on the bomb's red crystal detonation switch. The bomb goes off destroying the entire planet. The final scene is Taylor's hand on the detonator and as the screen goes white while a narrator says.
"In one of the countless billions of galaxies in the universe lies a medium sized star, ....and one of its satellites. A green and insignificant planet..is now dead." The credits were silent.

####Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure####
In 2688, humanity exists as a utopian society due to the inspiration of the music and philosophy of the Two Great Ones, Bill S. Preston, Esq., and "Ted" Theodore Logan. One of the citizens, Rufus, is tasked by the leaders to travel back to San Dimas, California, in 1988 using a phone booth-shaped time machine to ensure that the young Bill and Ted, two dim-witted high school students, successfully pass their history class.

The two, despite their inept skills at playing guitar, are so focused on their fledgling band, Wyld Stallyns, that they have little else for their studies, and Mr. Ryan, their weary history teacher, informs the two that the only way they will pass, is to ace their final history report. In addition, if they fail history, they will not graduate high school, and Ted's father, police chief Captain Logan, plans to ship Ted to a military school in Alaska, this ending Bill & Ted's band, and altering history.

Rufus finds the two at a Circle K convenience store, struggling to finish their history report, asking any passerby's for their help. Rufus offers his help before another phone-booth time machine arrives and future versions of Bill and Ted step out. After assuring the present-day Bill and Ted that Rufus's claims are true and that they can trust him, they disappear in the time booth.

Rufus shows Bill and Ted how to operate the time booth, taking them back to 1805 where they find Napoleon Bonaparte leading his forces against Austria. As Rufus, Bill and Ted return to the present, Napoleon is thrown by a cannonball explosion into their wake, and is dragged through the Circuits of Time along with them. Rufus explains that time will continue to progress normally for Bill and Ted and that they cannot miss their class presentation the next day; he then departs, leaving the empty time booth for them. As they discuss where to go next, they discover Napoleon stuck in a nearby tree, inspiring them to abduct historical figures and take them to the present for their school presentation. They leave Napoleon with Ted's younger brother Deacon before they go, instructing him to take Napoleon out on the town. Captain Logan stops the two and starts to ground Ted, but Bill distracts him from the phone booth, impersonating a new deputy telling him to come to the police station.

Bill and Ted set off, and befriend Billy the Kid in New Mexico 1879, and Socrates in Athens, Greece, 410 BC, and bring both figures along with them. In their next stop in 15th-century England, they fall in love with princesses Joanna and Elizabeth, both of whom are unwillingly betrothed to unattractive older noblemen. Bill and Ted are prepared to help the princesses escape, but their father, the king, tries to have them executed. However, Billy and Socrates rescue the two, and the four escape in the phone booth, but not before at attacking knight swings a flail, and hits the antenna. The booth takes them to the year 2688, where they find a society that reveres them and their future band.

Meanwhile, back in San Dimas, Deacon and his friends take Napoleon to an ice cream palace, and a bowling alley, but his antics embarrass them, and they eventually abandon him. Bill and Ted start to realize that the booth is malfunctioning, but initially they take advantage of it, to earn "extra credit" for their report, and they abduct Sigmund Freud from Vienna, Austria in 1901, Ludwig van Beethoven from Kassel, Germany in 1810, Joan of Arc from Orleons, France in 1429, Genghis Khan from Outer Mongolia in 1209 and Abraham Lincoln from Washington DC in 1863, losing track of time in the process.

The group then has to make a pit stop in prehistoric times to repair the damaged antenna. Their crude repair of tin pudding cups and chewing gum is effective, and they program it to return to the present, but end up outside the Circle K the night before, where Rufus was first introducing himself. They convince their earlier selves of Rufus's trustworthiness before he reminds them how to get to the next day, and informs them that their time is running short.

Bill and Ted arrive in the present, and ask Bill's young stepmother, Missy for further assistance, although she refuses unless Bill completes his chores. The group teams up to finish them, and Missy takes everyone to the mall to learn more about San Dimas. Bill and Ted leave the historical figures, to retrieve Napoleon, and are dismayed to learn Deacon ditched him. They find him at Waterloo, a local water park. Meanwhile, the historical figures explore the mall, but eventually cultural misunderstandings get them into trouble, and are all arrested by security, and locked up under Captain Logan.

Bill and Ted execute an escape plan based on using the time booth in the future to set up what they need in the present, including Captain Logan's missing keys. With help from Missy, they break their historical friends out of jail, and arrive at school, just in time to present each of them to the assembly using stage lighting effects and rousing music. Their "report" brings the school to their feet, cheering, and impresses Mr. Ryan, Missy, and both of their fathers, and they pass the course.

Some time later, Rufus returns, accompanied by the two princesses, whom he has rescued from the pre-arranged marriages. He says that they will also be part of Wyld Stallyns, and that the four of them will change the world with their music. He asks to jam with them—but on hearing their fledgling attempts to play, he turns to the movie audience and assures them, "They "do" get better."

####The Black Hole (1979 film)####
The spacecraft USS "Palomino" has nearly completed its mission exploring deep space. The crew consists of Captain Dan Holland, First Officer Lieutenant Charlie Pizer, journalist Harry Booth, ESP-sensitive scientist Dr. Kate McCrae, the expedition's civilian leader Dr. Alex Durant and the diminutive robot V.I.N.CENT. ("Vital Information Necessary CENTralized").

As it is returning to Earth, the "Palomino" discovers a black hole with the apparently abandoned and long-lost USS "Cygnus" nearby, the same ship that McCrae's father was aboard when it vanished 20 years ago. (Cygnus X-1 is the first-known black hole, discovered in 1964, after which this scientific vessel is presumably named.) The "Palomino" decide to investigate and finds that there is a mysterious null gravity field surrounding the "Cygnus" that allows it to defy the massive gravitational pull of the black hole. The "Palomino" briefly strays outside the field and is damaged by the intense gravity, forcing it to emergency dock with the "Cygnus", which no longer appears abandoned.

The cautious "Palomino" crew soon encounter Dr. Hans Reinhardt (one of Earth's most brilliant scientists, according to Durant). Reinhardt explains he has been alone on the "Cygnus" since it encountered a meteor field and was disabled. He ordered the human crew to return to Earth without him, but Kate's father chose to remain aboard and has since died. To replace the crew, Reinhardt built faceless, black-robed drones, sentry robots and his sinister bodyguard robot, Maximilian. Reinhardt says he intends to fly the "Cygnus" through the black hole because 20 years of study has shown that it's possible. Only an enamoured Durant believes him and asks if he can accompany Reinhardt.

However, the rest of the "Palomino" crew start to become suspicious of Reinhardt. Booth sees a drone limping, while Holland witnesses an android funeral and discovers personal items in the "Cygnus" crew quarters. V.I.N.CENT. meets a battered earlier model of his type named BO.B. ("BiO-sanitation Battalion"). BO.B explains the drones are actually what's left of the human crew, who mutinied when Reinhardt refused to return to Earth after the "Cygnus" was damaged. McCrae's father was killed leading the mutiny, and the crew was lobotomized and "reprogrammed" to serve Reinhardt. V.I.N.CENT. uses telepathy to tell Kate. After she informs Durant what really happened, he removes a drone's faceplate, revealing the zombie-like face of a crew member. Durant tries to flee with Kate, but is killed by Maximilian.

Reinhardt orders his robots to lobotomize Kate, but just as the process begins, she is rescued by Holland, V.I.N.CENT. and BO.B. Harry Booth tries to escape alone in the "Palomino", but is shot down and fatally crashes into the "Cygnus". A subsequent meteor storm and the explosion of the ship's overstressed main power plant cause the anti-gravity generator to fail. Without its null-gravity bubble, the "Cygnus" quickly starts to break apart under the black hole's huge gravitational forces.

Reinhardt and the "Palomino" survivors separately plan their escape in the probe ship used to study the black hole. Reinhardt orders Maximilian to prepare the ship for launch, but then a large viewscreen falls on Reinhardt, pinning him to the deck, surrounded by his lobotomized crew. Maximilian encounters the "Palomino" crew and fatally damages B.O.B. before being disabled by V.I.N.CENT and left to drift. Holland, Pizer, McCrae and V.I.N.CENT. launch the probe, which has a pre-programmed flight path that takes them into the black hole.

Within the black hole, Reinhardt and Maximilian merge together above a burning, hellish landscape populated by dark-robed spectres resembling "Cygnus" drones. Meanwhile, the probe ship is led through a cathedral-like arched crystal tunnel by a floating, angelic figure. After the ship emerges from a white hole, Holland, Pizer, McCrae and V.I.N.CENT. fly towards a planet near a bright star.

####The Blue Yonder####
Eleven-year-old Jonathan Knicks is daydreaming while playing an outfield position of a youth baseball game. He doesn't notice a flyball headed his way, and it bounces off his glove resulting in an error and a celebratory win for the opposing team.

Later, Jonathan heads to the home of Henry Coogan, a longtime family friend and once best-friend of his late grandfather Max Knickerbocker. At Henry's house, Jonathan catches a glimpse of some blueprints labeled, "Time Traveler Project" and the outline of a skeleton key used as an ignition key. Henry briefly explains the blueprint was something Jonathan's grandfather invented but never got a chance to build. Henry proceeds to gift Jonathan an unpainted toy model of a biplane, similar in style to the type his grandfather use to fly in the 1920s. That evening, while Jonathan is having dinner at his home, his father explains that his grandfather was a idealistic dreamer who died in a crazy exploit, and that Henry makes him out to be something more than he was.

One day, Jonathan is visiting Henry in his basement decorated with old pictures. Henry explains that a solo transatlantic flight was among the most daring challenges in his day, and that the person to first successfully fly solo across the Atlantic was Charles Lindbergh. Jonathan's grandfather had attempted the feat four days before Lindbergh but had perished during the trip. His grandfather had taken a northern route against his own instincts, which Henry believed is what likely led to the fatal outcome of the trip. Henry makes a vow that he will get the world to remember the name Max Knickerbocker despite the failed transatlantic flight attempt.

Sometime later, Jonathan comes to visit Henry but discovers that Henry had a heart attack and is bedridden. Henry explains to Jonathan that he built the time machine that Max once conceived on blueprints. At exactly 7:30&nbsp;a.m. the following day a "window in time" would open that would allow the machine to function and take an occupant into the past to save Max. Henry also explains that this "window in time" would only be open temporarily, and the traveler would need to return to the future before it closes or they would vanish forever. Given Henry's medical condition, he is no longer able to make the trip, and discourages Jonathan from attempting the trip, saying the machine is untested and the trip would be too risky.

Jonathan wakes up the early the next day and goes through a window in Max's house to activate the time machine using a skeleton key he found hanging nearby. When a countdown timer hits zero, the machine activates with various gears and sounds and spins rapidly taking him to May 14, 1927. When he emerges, he walks into downtown while 1927-era people stare at him with his anachronistic 1985 clothing. Jonathan buys a few candy bars and a newspaper with a dollar bill from the future, but leaves before the vendor notices. The vendor flags the local police captain claiming he was passed a counterfeit bill.

With vague directions of where his grandfather might be, Jonathan travels a few miles out of town and sleeps in a barn. He awakens to the crashing sound of a gyroplane that his grandfather Max was testing and subsequently crashed into the barn. Jonathan discovers his grandfather is an eccentric inventor, but a kind man who takes in Jonathan believing he's a runaway.

Meanwhile, a bootlegger named Finch and a corrupt police captain find the time machine in Finch's house (which would become Henry's house in the future). They make the connection to a strange boy who arrived in downtown with a futuristic counterfeit bill. Finch wants to find the boy to get the key to the time machine to exploit it for gambling and financial gain.

Jonathan connects with his grandfather over breakfast and meets his grandmother who is currently pregnant with a child that will become his father. Max shows Jonathan several of his inventions, including blueprints for the Time Traveler machine. He also shows Jonathan his biplane, which he calls The Blue Yonder, that he intends to fly across the Atlantic. Max takes Jonathan on a flight in which he performs several barrel rolls and flies inverted. He also allows Jonathan to take the stick and fly.

Later that evening, Jonathan tries to convince Max not to go on his transatlantic flight. When he fails, he tells Max that he is his grandson from the future. When Max doesn't believe him, he attempts to take Max to show him the time machine, but they discover it's missing because Finch moved it to a different room. Max is skeptical of Jonathan's story, so in a last ditch effort, Jonathan tells Max the story about how an American Legion plane will crash the following morning in a nearby pond and will kill both pilots. When this even occurs as he described, Max realizes the probably of guessing such an outcome is far too remote and now believes he's from the future. While viewing the crash scene, Jonathan is spotted by Finch and the police officer, and they arrest him, but not before Jonathan secretly puts the key for the time machine into Max's pocket.

Later that evening, Max breaks Jonathan out of jail and takes him home. In the middle of the night Max decides to take an alternate route on his transatlantic flight. The next morning, Jonathan wakes up and finds a note from Max saying he's going to attempt the flight and wishes him off. Jonathan races to the airfield to stop Max but is too late. Finch and the police officer are there, and begin to chase Jonathan who heads back toward the time machine. With only seconds to spare, Jonathan activates the time machine and disappears with Finch and the police captain barely missing him. A group of police officials file into the room discovering bootlegged liquor stash, and begin to arrest Finch and the corrupt police captain.

Jonathan emerges back in 1985 saddened that he failed his mission to save his grandfather. While walking near some baseball fields, a baseball lands near an aviation memorial statue and the kids ask if Jonathan can throw the ball back. As he's picking it up, he notices the plaque has changes from before his trip. It now credits Max Knickerbocker for making the "nearest successful Atlantic crossing before Lindbergh" and that The Blue Yonder plane was found off the French coast, indicating that while Max still died, he had successfully traversed the Atlantic before Lindbergh. Inspired by this new knowledge, Jonathan picks up the ball and lobs it into the air with a renewed force he was unable to achieve in the beginning of the movie.

####Bruce Gentry – Daredevil of the Skies####
Dr Benson (Forrest Taylor), a friend of charter pilot Bruce Gentry (Tom Neal), is kidnapped by the mysterious enemy agent, "the Recorder" who only issues orders through recordings. Benson is used to perfect the villain's flying saucers, launched and controlled by electronic means. Industrialist Paul Radcliffe (Hugh Prosser) hires Bruce to investigate the saucers as he thinks they may have a commercial use.

Necessary for the production of the flying saucers is a mineral called Platonite. The Recorder's only source, an abandoned mine on the land belonging to Jaunita (Judy Clark) and Frank Farrell (Ralph Hodges), has run dry and he needs to steal supplies from the US Government.

When Bruce closes in on The Recorder, he finds out that his prey is actually Dr. Benson. Krendon (Tristram Coffin), one of his henchmen, releases a deadly flying saucer on an attack against the Panama Canal. In his aircraft, Bruce intercepts the saucer, crashing into it, and escaping the resultant explosion by taking to his parachute. Back at The Recorder's headquarters, the saucer controls explode, killing all the enemy agents.

####Buck Rogers (serial)####
In 1938, Lieutenant Buck Rogers (Buster Crabbe) and Buddy Wade (Jackie Moran) are part of the crew of a dirigible flying over the North Pole. They are caught in a savage storm and crash. They are ordered to release the experimental Nirvano Gas, which (unbeknownst to them) will put them in suspended animation until they are  rescued. The Nirvano Gas works, but the dirigible is buried in an avalanche and is not found until 500 years have passed. When Buck and Buddy are found, they awaken in the year 2440 to a world ruled by the ruthless dictator, Killer Kane (Anthony Warde), and his army of "super-racketeers". Only those who live in the "Hidden City", run by the benevolent scientist Dr. Huer (C. Montague Shaw) and his military counterpart, Air Marshal Kragg (William Gould), resist the criminal rulers of Earth.

Buck and Buddy join the resistance. They volunteer to go to Saturn, where they hope that they can find help in their fight against Kane. Wilma Deering (Constance Moore) is assigned to accompany them. Saturn is run by Aldar (Guy Usher), the Council of the Wise and Prince Tallen. To the dismay of Buck and Buddy, they also discover that Kane has dispatched ambassadors of his own, headed by his loyal henchman, Captain Laska (Henry Brandon). The serial then becomes a back-and-forth struggle between Buck and Kane to secure the planet's military support.

####Buck Rogers in the 25th Century (film)####
In 1987, NASA astronaut Captain William "Buck" Rogers is piloting the space shuttle "Ranger 3" when he flies into an unexpected space phenomenon and is frozen for 504 years. In the year 2491, his shuttle is found drifting in space by the alien flagship "Draconia", which is headed to Earth for a trade conference, under the command of Princess Ardala and her aide-de-camp, Kane, a former native of Earth. Rogers is revived from his cryogenic sleep and is questioned by the princess and Kane. Princess Ardala is visibly attracted to Buck, though Kane arranges for Buck to be placed back on his shuttle and returned towards Earth.

It turns out though the Draconians are actually planning to conquer the Earth through staged pirate attacks on Earth's shipping fleet, forcing Earth to seek a treaty with the Draconians and unwittingly opening up their defenses to the invaders. They plant a homing beacon aboard Buck's shuttle to track a way through Earth's planet-wide defense shield. Buck is escorted through the defense shield by Colonel Wilma Deering of Earth's military forces. He lands in the futuristic city of New Chicago where he is interrogated and learns that Earth has been rebuilt in the centuries during his absence following a nuclear holocaust, and now much of the Earth outside of the city is a desolate, radioactive wasteland. During his time in the city, Buck meets Dr. Elias Huer, the leader of Earth's Defense Directorate, the AI computer Dr. Theopolis, and the robot drone Twiki, most of whom attempt to help him adjust to his current surroundings.

While recounting his encounter with the Draconians, Buck notices several discrepancies and suspects that the Draconians must be armed, contrary to the terms of the trade meeting. Against advice, Buck ventures outside the city to the ruins of old Chicago in an attempt to see that what he has been told is real, eventually finding his own parents' grave and having to be rescued by Wilma and her troops from the violent mutants inhabiting the ruins. Following Buck's return to the Inner City, the Draconian tracking device is found aboard his ship, and the authorities accuse Buck of espionage and sentence him to death. Buck claims the Draconians simply used him, and Wilma persuades Dr. Huer to test Buck's claims by requesting a meeting with Princess Ardala and Kane aboard the "Draconia". During the meeting, the pirate ships (actually Draconian marauders) attack their flagship as a diversion, but Buck manages to destroy them single-handedly, thus earning Wilma's respect.

At the official diplomatic reception on Earth, Ardala, who is still attracted to Buck, invites him back to the "Draconia" later that night. Buck uses the invitation to go aboard and find out the truth behind the Draconians' scheme. On the ship, Ardala informs Buck she needs a man such as him to rule by her side and offers him the position. After drugging Ardala, Buck explores the ship and discovers their marauders and imminent plans to attack Earth. Dr. Theopolis and Twiki, who have followed Buck aboard, eventually meet up with him and alert Earth to the Draconian invasion. Wilma immediately scrambles Earth's starfighters and attacks the "Draconia", while Buck sabotages the Draconian marauder fleet prepared to attack Earth and fights off Ardala's bodyguard, Tigerman. During the battle, the "Draconia" is critically damaged, but Buck, Theopolis and Twiki are rescued by Wilma before the ship explodes. Ardala and Kane also escape the "Draconia"'s destruction in an escape shuttle, with Kane vowing to return to take his revenge on Buck.

####Bumblebee (film)####
####Captain Video: Master of the Stratosphere####
Judd Holdren, in what was only his second starring screen role, plays Captain Video, the leader of a group of crime-fighters known as the Video Rangers. He faces an interplanetary menace, as the evil dictator of the planet Atoma, Vultura (Gene Roth) and his lackey, the traitorous earth scientist Dr. Tobor (George Eldredge) are planning to conquer the earth.

####Chaos Walking (film)####
In 2257 AD, the colonists of the planet New World, all men, have been afflicted with a condition called the Noise, which causes everyone to see and hear each other's thoughts. The colonists were involved in a bitter war with the native humanoid species referred to as The Spackle, a war that ostensibly killed all female colonists, while half the men survived. Todd Hewitt lives in Prentisstown with his adoptive fathers, Ben Moore and Cillian Boyd. Other residents include the preacher Aaron, the town's mayor David Prentiss, and his son Davy. Prentiss has learned to control his Noise, making his thoughts difficult to see and hear. A spaceship that lost contact with the First Colony approaches New World and a scout ship is sent to investigate the planet, but it crashes. One day, Todd discovers someone stealing something and chases the thief, only to come upon the crash site.

Todd returns to the town and tries to keep quiet, but the other men hear and see his thoughts about the crashed ship. They head to investigate the crash scene and scavenge some parts of the ship, but find no survivors. While Todd is alone, he meets Viola, the ship's only survivor. He is shocked to see a girl, as he has never seen one before. The men from Prentisstown capture Viola and she is brought to the mayor's home, where she is questioned about where she came from. Prentiss explains to her what the Noise is and what has happened on their planet. While he leaves to go speak to the men, Davy is charged with keeping an eye on her. Davy unwittingly toys with one of Viola's gadgets, which causes it to shoot large holes in the walls, helping Viola escape.

During her escape, Viola overhears Prentiss talking about preventing her from contacting the colony's mothership, intercepting their landing, killing them while they are still under cryosleep, and scavenging the ship. Viola hides in Todd's family's barn, where Todd eventually finds her. Todd tries to hide Viola, when one of Prentiss' men arrives looking for her. Ben tells Todd about another settlement called Farbranch and says Viola will be safe there.

Viola escapes on a motorcycle while Todd chases after her on one of the horses. Prentiss and the men arrive at the farm, demanding Viola back as they believe she is a spy. Davy kills Cillian, and Ben is forced to join them. Meanwhile, Todd catches up to Viola and the two begin a journey to Farbranch, accompanied by Todd's dog, Manchee. During the journey, Viola reveals to Todd that she is from a large Colony Ship carrying over four thousand passengers and that her parents died during the 64 year-long journey from Earth to New World. Todd reveals he never knew his real parents. When they encounter a Spackle, Todd attempts to kill it in self-defense, but Viola stops him because it does not appear to be dangerous. They arrive at Farbranch, a town inhabited by men, women and children, some of whom are displeased with Todd's presence, because he is from Prentisstown.

Todd discovers his mother's diary, but Viola reads it to him because he cannot. The diary reveals that the women were not killed by the native aliens, but rather by Prentiss and the men of Prentisstown. The men could not stand not knowing the thoughts of the women, when they could hear theirs, which drove them crazy. Angered, Todd realizes that everything he had been told was a lie. Prentiss and his men arrive, again demanding Viola. Ben tries to get Todd to surrender Viola, but Todd is upset at him for lying. Ben uses his Noise to create an image of Viola to distract Prentiss and his men, while Todd and Viola escape. Aaron chases them. They come upon a boat, and, as they escape, Aaron kills Manchee, further enraging Todd.

The next day, Viola and Todd arrive at the ruins of the first colony ship. They enter it and try to send a signal to the colony ship, but the antenna is damaged, so Todd attempts to repair it. When Prentiss and his men arrive, Todd surrenders himself, as Prentiss is holding Ben hostage. Aaron goes inside to kill Viola, but she immolates him with one of her gadgets. Todd appears, but Prentiss shoots Ben. Todd goes to him and, unknown to Prentiss, Ben gives him a knife. Todd engages Prentiss, but he uses illusions of himself to distract Todd and shoots him. As he is about to kill Todd, Todd uses illusions of his mother and other women, calling Prentiss a coward. Viola pushes Prentiss off the cliff ledge to his death. The colony ship appears in the sky, causing Davy and the remaining Prentisstown men to flee.

Todd wakes up in the colony ship's medical room, almost fully healed. Viola takes him to meet other colonists.

####Children of Men####
In the year 2027, after eighteen years of total human infertility, war and global depression have pushed society to the brink of collapse as humanity faces extinction. The United Kingdom has become a police state in which immigrants (derogatorily referred to as "'fugees") are arrested and either imprisoned or executed; still, as one of the few remaining nations with a functioning government, it is deluged by refugees fleeing chaos in their own countries.

The story begins just after the youngest person in the world, 18-year-old "Baby" Diego Ricardo, has been killed; Theo Faron, a former activist turned cynical bureaucrat, catches the news in a coffee shop. Moments after he leaves the shop, it explodes in a bombing. Theo is kidnapped by the Fishes, a militant immigrant-rights group led by Theo's estranged wife, Julian Taylor; the pair separated after their son's death during a 2008 flu pandemic. Julian offers Theo money to acquire transit papers for a young refugee woman named Kee. Theo obtains the documents from his cousin, a government minister, and agrees to escort Kee in exchange for a larger sum of money. Luke, a Fishes leader, drives Theo, Kee, Julian, and former midwife Miriam towards Canterbury, but an armed gang ambushes them and kills Julian. Two police officers later stop their car; Luke kills them, and the group hides Julian's body before heading to a safe house.

Kee reveals to Theo that she is pregnant, making her the only known pregnant woman in the world. Julian had intended to take her to the Human Project, a semi-legendary, secretive scientific group in the Azores dedicated to curing humanity's infertility, which Theo believes does not exist. Luke becomes the new leader of the Fishes, and that night, Theo eavesdrops on a discussion and learns that the Fishes orchestrated Julian's death so that Luke could become their leader, and that they intend to kill him and use Kee's baby as a political tool. Theo wakes Kee and Miriam, and they escape to the secluded hideaway of Theo's reclusive, ageing hippie friend Jasper Palmer, a former political cartoonist whose wife was tortured into catatonia by the British government for her activism.

The group plans to reach the Human Project ship, the "Tomorrow", scheduled to arrive offshore at Bexhill-on-Sea, a notorious immigrant detention centre. Jasper plans to use Syd, an immigration officer to whom Jasper sells cannabis, to smuggle them into Bexhill as refugees. The next day, the Fishes discover Jasper's house, and the group is forced to flee. Jasper stays behind to stall them, and is murdered by Luke as Theo watches. Theo, Kee, and Miriam meet with Syd, who helps them board a bus into the camp. When Kee begins experiencing contractions, Miriam distracts a guard by feigning religious mania and is taken away.

Inside the camp, Theo and Kee meet a Romani woman, Marichka, who provides a room where Kee gives birth to a baby girl. Syd tells Theo and Kee the next day that war has broken out between the British military and the refugees, and that the Fishes have infiltrated the camp; he then reveals that Theo and Kee have a bounty on their heads and attempts to capture them. Theo subdues Syd with Marichka's help; they escape but are ambushed by the Fishes, who capture Kee and the baby. Theo tracks them to an apartment building that is under heavy fire. Theo confronts Luke, who is killed in an explosion, and Theo escorts Kee and the baby out. Awed by the baby, the British soldiers and Fishes temporarily stop fighting and allow the trio to leave. Marichka leads them to the boat but chooses to stay behind as they depart.

As British fighter jets conduct airstrikes on Bexhill, Theo and Kee row to the rendezvous point in heavy fog. Theo reveals that he was shot and wounded by Luke earlier; he teaches Kee how to burp her baby, and she tells him she will name the baby girl Dylan, after Theo's and Julian's lost son. Theo smiles weakly, then loses consciousness as the "Tomorrow" approaches. As the screen cuts to black, children's laughter is heard.

####The Chronicles of Riddick####
Fugitive Riddick has been in hiding, evading bounty hunters and mercenaries sent to capture him. After killing a crew led by mercenary Toombs and stealing his ship on planet U.V., he heads to New Mecca on the planet Helion Prime, after Toombs reveals his bounty originated there. Riddick is reunited with Imam, a holy man he rescued five years earlier. Imam believes Riddick is a Furyan, a member of a race of warriors long thought extinct, and wants to know about his homeworld and if anyone other than himself is left. Imam believes Helion Prime is the next planet to be conquered by a mysterious force crusading across the stars. Aereon, an Air Elemental, identifies the army as the Necromongers, religious fanatics who seek to convert all human life and kill those who refuse. The Necromongers attack and take control of the capital in a single night. In the battle, Imam is killed and Riddick escapes.

The next day, the Necromonger high priest called "The Purifier" coerces the populace into converting, except for Riddick, who kills the man who killed Imam. Intrigued, the Necromongers' leader, the Lord Marshal, orders Riddick be scanned by the Quasi-Dead, half-dead telepaths, who determine that he is indeed a Furyan survivor. Lord Marshal orders Riddick's death, but Riddick escapes only to be recaptured by Toombs. Riddick is taken to Crematoria, a harsh subterranean prison moon, where Jack, the girl Riddick also rescued, is being held.

The Lord Marshal sends Commander Vaako to hunt Riddick down. Vaako's wife speaks to Aereon, who reveals that Furya was devastated by the Lord Marshal after he was told a child from that planet would kill him. Dame Vaako and her husband determine Lord Marshal wants Riddick dead, as he may be the child of said prophecy. On Crematoria, a disagreement breaks out between Toombs and the prison warden over what Toombs is owed for Riddick's bounty. Word about the Necromongers has reached the prison warden, who deduces that Toombs has stolen Riddick from them. In the prison, Riddick finds Jack, now named Kyra, and they reconcile with each other.

The guards kill the bounty hunters except for Toombs, take the reward money, and prepare to leave before the Necromongers arrive. After leaving Toombs in a cell, Riddick escapes the prison and leads several prisoners across Crematoria's volcanic surface to steal the ship. The guards reach the hangar, just as the prisoners arrive to find the Necromongers have cornered them there. All of the guards and prisoners are killed, and Riddick is incapacitated by Vaako. With the approach of the deadly sunrise, Vaako leaves Riddick to die and the Necromongers capture Kyra.

Riddick is saved by the Purifier, who tells him that if he stays away from the Necromongers, the Lord Marshal promises not to hunt him. The Purifier then reveals that he too is a Furyan and encourages Riddick to kill the Lord Marshal before committing suicide by walking out into the scorching heat. Riddick then flies back to Helion Prime using Toombs's spacecraft. Meanwhile, Vaako reports Riddick dead and is promoted to a higher rank by the Lord Marshal.

Riddick infiltrates the main hall on the Necromongers' flagship, where Dame Vaako sees him but encourages her husband not to warn the Lord Marshal and to let Riddick strike first and pave the way for Vaako to kill the Lord Marshal and take his place as leader. When Riddick attacks, the Lord Marshal presents Kyra, who appears to have been converted. Riddick fights the Lord Marshal in front of his army, who keeps the upper hand with his supernatural powers. When it appears that Riddick is about to be killed, Kyra stabs the Lord Marshal in the back with a spear and he punches her into a column of spikes, mortally wounding her. Vaako attempts to strike the wounded Lord Marshal, who uses his powers to evade the blow but is stopped by Riddick, who takes the opportunity and swiftly kills him. Kyra dies in Riddick's arms just before the Necromongers, including Vaako, kneel before Riddick as their new leader.

####Conquest of the Planet of the Apes####
Following a North American pandemic from a space-borne disease that wiped out all dogs and cats in 1983, the government has become a series of Schutzstaffel-patterned police states that took apes as pets before establishing a culture based on ape slave labor. These events were foretold in 1973 as testimony by two chimpanzee scientists, Cornelius and Zira, before they were killed. Widely believed to be dead, their baby was secretly raised by the circus owner Armando as a young horseback rider. In 1991, now fully grown and named Caesar, the ape is brought to one of the cities to distribute flyers for Armando's circus. During their trip, Armando advises Caesar not to speak in public for fear of his life.

After seeing a gorilla being beaten and drugged, Caesar shouts out "Lousy human bastards!". Armando diffuses the ensuing commotion by taking responsibility for the exclamation. He plans to turn himself in to the authorities and bluff his way out while instructing Caesar to hide among the apes for safety. Caesar obeys and hides in a cage of orangutans, finding himself being trained for slavery through violent conditioning. He is then sold at auction to Governor Breck. Caesar is then put to work by Breck's chief aide MacDonald, whose African American heritage allows him to sympathize with the apes to the disgust of his boss.

Meanwhile, Armando is interrogated by Inspector Kolp, who suspects his "circus ape" is the child of Cornelius and Zira. Kolp's assistant puts Armando under a machine that psychologically forces people to be truthful. Realizing he cannot fight the machine, Armando jumps through a window and dies. When Caesar learns of Armando's death, he loses faith in human kindness. In secret, he begins teaching the apes combat and has them gather weapons.

Unfortunately, Breck eventually learns that Caesar is the ape the police are hunting. Meanwhile, Caesar realizes MacDonald is an ally to the apes' cause and reveals himself to him. MacDonald understands Caesar's intent to depose Breck, but expresses his doubts about the revolution's effectiveness. Caesar is later captured by Breck's men and is electrically tortured into speaking. Hearing him speak, Breck orders Caesar to be killed. With MacDonald's help, the heroes manage to trick Breck into believing Caesar died. Once Breck leaves, Caesar kills his torturer and escapes.

To build his numbers, Caesar takes over Ape Management. While setting the city on fire, Caesar and the rest of the apes proceed to the command center, killing most of the riot police that attempt to stop them in the process. After succeeding in this, Caesar has Breck marched out to be executed. MacDonald pleads with Caesar not to succumb to brutality and be merciful to the former masters. Caesar ignores him, deciding to dedicate his life to man's downfall.

In the theatrical cut, as the apes raise their rifles to beat Breck to death, Caesar's girlfriend Lisa voices her objection, shouting "No!". She is the first ape to speak other than Caesar. Caesar reconsiders and orders the apes to lower their weapons, deciding that, after their recent victory, they can afford to be humane.

####The Core####
Several small, disparate incidents involving the Earth's magnetic field cause scientists led by geophysicist Dr. Josh Keyes and scientists Dr. Serge Leveque and Dr. Conrad Zimsky to conclude that the Earth's molten core has stopped rotating. Unless it can be restarted, the field will collapse within months, exposing the surface to devastating solar radiation. The U.S. government back a secret project to build a vessel that can drill to the core and release nuclear weapons to restart the rotation. They utilize the work of Dr. Ed "Braz" Brazzelton who has developed a material "Unobtainium" that can withstand and convert extreme heat into electricity, as well as a laser-based high-speed drilling array. NASA pilots Commander Robert Iverson and Major Rebecca "Beck" Childs are enlisted to pilot the multi-compartment vessel "USS Virgil", while computer hacker Theodore Donald "Rat" Finch is brought on to keep news of the pending disaster or the attempt to restart the core from the Internet.

"Virgil" is launched through the Marianas Trench and successfully makes its way through the crust. The team accidentally drills through a gigantic empty geode structure, damaging the lasers when it lands at its base. As they traverse outside the ship to free the vessel from the crystalline structures, the geode starts to flood with magma, and Iverson is impaled by a falling shard and falls into the magma. The rest manage to return in time as "Virgil" continues its descent. Further down, they pass through a field of gigantic diamond formations, one of which breaches the last compartment housing the detonation timers for the nuclear charges. Leveque sacrifices himself to make sure that the others have the charges and launch codes before the compartment is crushed by the extreme pressure.

The team reaches the molten core and realizes it is much less dense than previously thought, throwing off their calculations on restarting its motions. They communicate with the surface, where Lieutenant General Thomas Purcell, overseeing the operation, orders them to abandon the effort and return immediately as they plan to use a secondary protocol to restart the core. Finch is secretly communicating with the "Virgil" team and learns that this secondary protocol is the top-secret project "DESTINI" ("'D"'eep "'E"'arth "'S"'eismic "'T"'rigger "'INI"'tiative). Keyes finds that Zimsky was a lead scientist on "DESTINI," a tectonic weapon intended to be used by the U.S. but, when first tested, had caused the core's rotation to stop. Finch redirects power from DESTINI to prevent Purcell from activating it again, as Keyes fears that it could destroy the Earth instead of restarting the core. Meanwhile, destructive events, including a lightning storm in Rome and a burst of ultraviolet rays that destroys the Golden Gate Bridge, alert the world to the situation.

On "Virgil", the remaining team comes up with a plan to place an explosive in each of the remaining compartments, release them, and time their detonations in an exact sequence to trigger the core's rotation through constructive wave interference. Due to the faulty design of "Virgil" because of time constraints, Brazzelton has to sacrifice himself to engage the compartment detachment mechanism in the vessel's underbelly. As they set the charges, Keyes and Zimsky realize that they need more explosive power than previously thought and in their race to adjust timings, Zimsky becomes trapped in a detached compartment. Keyes uses "Virgil"'s nuclear power source to provide the additional energy for the final detonation. While it leaves the main compartment powerless and Keyes and Childs trapped, the other explosions successfully restart the core's rotation. Keyes recalls that the unobtainium shell can convert the heat and pressure to energy, and the two of them wire the shell directly to their systems in time to power the craft and ride the pressure wave out of the core and up towards the surface through tectonic plates, eventually breaching into the floor of the ocean near Hawaii. Due to the much lower heat and pressure in this environment, "Virgil" no longer has sufficient power to establish communications. The government searches for them, and Finch, tracking nearby whale sound, realizes that the "Virgil" crew are using low-power ultrasound to draw whales nearby. Keyes and Childs are soon rescued.

In the aftermath, Finch uploads information about "Virgil" and its team and the classified information about "DESTINI" across the Internet, causing the world to revere the crew as heroes.

####Cowboys & Aliens####
In 1873 New Mexico Territory, a man awakens injured in the desert with a strange metal bracelet attached to his left wrist and no memory. He wanders into the town of Absolution, where preacher Meacham treats his wound. Sheriff John Taggart recognizes the stranger as wanted outlaw Jake Lonergan and attempts to arrest him. Jake nearly escapes, but a woman named Ella Swenson interferes. Taggart and his men prepare to transport both Jake and petulant young drunkard Percy Dolarhyde to Santa Fe for trial.

Percy's father, Colonel Woodrow Dolarhyde, a ruthless cattle baron, arrives with armed men and demands Percy be released. He also wants Jake, who has stolen gold from him. During the standoff, alien ships begin attacking the town. Percy, Taggart, and other townsfolk are abducted by grappling cables fired from the bottom of the ships. Jake's bracelet inexplicably activates and transforms, becoming a weapon; he shoots down a ship, ending the attack.

Dolarhyde, Ella, and other townsfolk form a posse to track an injured alien that escaped from the downed ship. Meanwhile, Jake travels to an abandoned cabin and, in a flashback, recalls returning to it with stolen gold and then being abducted, along with a woman named Alice, by the aliens. His memories returning, Jake joins the posse. During the evening, they come upon a capsized paddle wheel steamboat that the aliens apparently dumped far from any large river. They camp inside it; during the night, the alien kills Meacham, who sacrifices himself to save Emmett, Taggart's grandson.

By morning, most of the posse has deserted, and Jake's former gang attacks the rest. Jake, who stole the gang's loot after their last heist, attempts to retake control but is foiled. The aliens attack again and abduct Ella. Jake jumps aboard the ship and attacks the alien pilot, causing the ship to crash in a river. The pilot survives the crash and attacks Ella, fatally wounding her, before Jake kills it with his wrist-blaster.

The remaining posse is captured by Chiricahua Apache Native Americans, who blame them for the alien attacks. After Ella's corpse is dumped on a fire by a Chiricahua warrior, she is resurrected and emerges from the fire. Ella reveals herself to be from another alien race, who had traveled to Earth to help resist the invaders after they destroyed her home world. The aliens – who are mining gold and abducting people to conduct experiments on them – have superior weaponry and are far stronger and more durable than humans; only Jake's wrist weapon or a well-aimed round from a rifle can kill them with a single shot. Ella tells them that the previous attackers were just scouts.

She also claims Jake holds the secret to the aliens' whereabouts and argues that they must defeat the aliens before the invaders exterminate all life on Earth. After taking medicine offered by the Apaches' medicine man, Jake's memory returns. He recalls watching Alice get vivisected and euthanized; he escaped by stealing the bracelet encasing his wrist. He also remembers the location of the aliens' base of operations: their landed mother ship.

With this knowledge, they plan to attack the alien base. Jake leaves to persuade his old gang to join the fight while Dolarhyde takes command of the original group and the Apaches. After the combined groups maneuver the aliens into a ground battle, Jake and Ella board the ship and free the captives, but Jake is captured. Dolarhyde rescues him, and both men escape from the ship after killing the alien responsible for Alice's death (identified as Jake left a distinctive scar on its eye in his original escape). The ship takes off as the remaining aliens flee Earth, but Ella stays on board to end the threat: she sacrifices herself by entering the ship's core and turning Jake's wrist weapon into a bomb; it detonates, obliterating the ship.

With the aliens gone, the rescued townsfolk begin remembering their pasts. Still a wanted man, Jake chooses to leave; the sheriff and Dolarhyde decide to claim he was killed in the invasion. The citizens intend to rebuild their town with the gold taken from the aliens.

####Crater (film)####
After his father's death, a boy raised on a lunar mining colony goes on a journey exploring a mysterious crater with his three best friends, and a new arrival from Earth, before he is permanently relocated to another planet.

####Dawn of the Planet of the Apes####

Years<!-- No calendar year, like 2021 or 2026, is given in the film. --> after the global pandemic of a deadly Simian Flu,efn|As depicted in "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" (2011)|name=|group= the worldwide human population is drastically reduced, with only about one in 500 genetically immune. This causes societal collapse among humans. The apes, all bestowed with genetically enhanced intelligence by the virus, establish a colony in the Muir Woods near San Francisco.

A group of humans, led by a man named Malcolm, trespass the apes' territory, in search of a hydroelectric dam that would restore power to San Francisco. An encounter with the apes, ends with a man named Carver badly hurting the ape Ash. Malcolm manages to prevent further escalation, and Caesar, the apes' leader, orders the humans to leave. Prompted by Koba, a scarred bonobo, Caesar brings his army to the humans' community as a display of strength. Caesar announces to the community that, despite the apes not wanting war, he will fight the humans if he is forced to. He demands the humans to stay in their territory. Malcolm convinces his fellow leader Dreyfus to give him time to take a small team to the forest, reconcile with the apes and access the dam. Eventually, Caesar allows them to work on the generator on the condition that they surrender their guns. While working together, Malcolm, his wife Ellie, and his son Alexander bond with the apes. The fragile relationship briefly falls apart when Carver is discovered to have kept a hidden gun and is thus forcibly sent away, but it is greatly restored when Ellie, a nurse, effectively treats Caesar's wife Cornelia's illness.

Dreyfus arms his community with the Fort Point armory. Koba, who has a vendetta against humans for his mistreatment as a laboratory test subject, discovers the armory and confronts Caesar, accusing him of loving humans more than apes. Caesar beats Koba in response but refrains from killing him. Koba later returns to the armory, kills two guards, and secretly kills Carver after the humans succeed in repairing the generator. Koba takes advantage of their celebration to covertly set fire to the apes' home. He then shoots Caesar, who falls into an underbrush. Koba frames the humans for Caesar's apparent death and the fire to justify war. Taking command, he leads the ape army to San Francisco, where they plunder the armory and mount a full-scale assault on the humans. Despite taking heavy casualties, the apes breach the building and imprison the humans as Dreyfus flees underground. While refusing orders to kill unarmed humans, Ash cites Caesar's teachings, and Koba throws him to his death. He also has any other ape who is loyal to Caesar imprisoned, including Maurice, Luca, and Rocket.

Malcolm's family finds a severely wounded Caesar and transports him to his former house in San Francisco. After sneaking back into the settlement to find medical supplies, Malcolm encounters Blue Eyes, Caesar's son. Blue Eyes spares him before learning that his father is still alive and accompanies Malcolm to Caesar's place. After learning that it was Koba who shot Caesar, Blue Eyes reconciles with his father, returns to the tower and frees every human and ape imprisoned there. After escorting the apes into the tower, Malcolm finds Dreyfus. Apparently, the return of electricity allowed Dreyfus' men to make radio contact with survivors from a military base, who are now coming to fight the apes. Caesar confronts Koba at the top of the tower; as they fight, Dreyfus, in a suicide mission, detonates bombs that destabilize the building in a failed attempt to kill the apes. Willing to shoot at the apes that want to help Caesar, Koba eventually loses. While clinging to a metal girder, he is disowned as an ape by Caesar and dropped to his death.

Malcolm warns Caesar of the approaching human military. Caesar responds "War has already begun" because of Koba's violent reign. Believing that the humans will never forgive the apes for their attack, Caesar convinces Malcolm to leave with his family for safety before the fighting begins. He then addresses the apes, preparing for the upcoming war.<!--Do NOT include info on the post-credits sounds of an ape moving through the rubble, as they add nothing to the plot.-->

####Destination Moon (film)####
When their latest rocket test fails and government funding collapses, rocket scientist Dr. Charles Cargraves (Warner Anderson) and space enthusiast General Thayer (Tom Powers) enlist the aid of aircraft magnate Jim Barnes (John Archer). With the necessary millions raised privately from a group of patriotic U.S. industrialists, Cargraves, Thayer, and Barnes build an advanced single-stage-to-orbit atomic powered spaceship, named "Luna", at their desert manufacturing and launch facility.

The project is soon threatened by a ginned-up public uproar over "radiation safety" but the three circumvent legal efforts to stop their expedition by launching the world's first Moon mission ahead of schedule. As a result, they must quickly substitute Joe Sweeney (Dick Wesson) as their expedition's radar and radio operator, a replacement for Brown (Ted Warde), now in the hospital with appendicitis.

En route to the Moon they are forced to spacewalk outside. They stay firmly attached to "Luna" with their magnetic boots so they can easily walk up to and free the frozen piloting radar antenna that the inexperienced Sweeney innocently greased before launch. In the process, Cargraves becomes untethered in free fall and is lost overboard. He is retrieved by Barnes, who cleverly uses a large oxygen cylinder with nozzle, retrieved by General Thayer, as an improvised propulsion unit to return them to "Luna".

After achieving lunar orbit, the crew begins the complex landing procedure, but expedition leader Barnes uses too much fuel during the descent. Safely on the Moon, they explore the lunar surface and describe by radio their view of the Earth, as contrasted against the star-filled lunar night sky. Using forced perspective, Barnes photographs Sweeney pretending to "hold up" the Earth like a modern Atlas. Events take a serious turn for the crew, however, when they realize that with their limited remaining fuel they must lighten "Luna" in order to achieve lunar escape velocity.

No matter how much non-critical equipment they strip and discard on the lunar surface, the hard numbers radioed from Earth continue to point to one conclusion: One of them will have to remain on the Moon if the others are to safely return to Earth. With time running out for their return launch window, the crew continues to engineer their way home. They finally jettison the ship's radio, losing contact with Earth. In addition, a spent oxygen cylinder is used as a tethered, suspended weight to pull their sole remaining space suit outside through the open airlock, which is then remotely closed and resealed. With the critical take-off weight finally achieved, and with all her crew safely aboard, "Luna" blasts off from the Moon for home.

####Dick Figures: The Movie####
In a world populated by stick figures, two stick figures named Red and Blue grow up together. As adults, they live together as roommates, with their girlfriends, Stacy and Pink. When Pink's birthday approaches, Red suggests that they go see the Raccoon at his pawnshop to get a gift for Pink.

The Raccoon tells them a story of when he lived in ancient Japan. His village fell under attack by Lord Takagami and his demon army. Raccoon, armed with the Sword of Destiny, single-handedly fought the army, but fell into a rage when he saw his wife swallowed by Ocho Muerte, a large octopus. If Blue finds the Sword and returns it to him, he will give Blue the perfect gift for Pink.

Red and Blue arrive in Japan and meet with the Raccoon's son, Son-san. They discover the hilt of the Sword and a large map with the locations of the other pieces, the blade and a jewel. Their retrieval of the hilt awakens Takagami and his ninjas, who give chase. The duo escapes out to sea on a rowboat, and they eventually end up in the middle of nowhere during an approaching storm. Lightning strikes their boat and a large wave sweeps them away. Shipwrecked on a tropical uninhabited island, they are rescued by alcoholic British pilot Captain Crookygrin. They fly to Paris, and are told to find the blade of the Sword at the Eiffel Tower, then return home to find the jewel.

Red abandons Blue to go partying. Blue decides to finish the quest alone, only to be captured by Takagami and taken to a nearby volcano where the jewel rests. Takagami reunites the jewel with the Sword and has Blue thrown into the lava. Red and Raccoon arrive just in time and a battle ensues with Red and Blue fighting the ninjas while the Raccoon fights Takagami with the Sword. Cutting off his mask, Raccoon discovers that Father-san is Takagami's real identity. Raccoon beheads him, and his remains fall into the lava, but his head transforms into Ocho Muerte, who heads off to attack their town. Ocho Muerte devours the Raccoon and nearly eats Pink, but not before Blue rescues her with the Sword. The Sword falls into Ocho Muerte's mouth and kills him in an explosion of light. They find Raccoon alive, as well as his wife Mama-san.  In return for Blue's bravery, Mama-san gives Blue and Pink the lotus flower that Papa-san once gave to her, blessing their love for each other. Red and Blue celebrate their successful quest.

####Dinosaur Island (1994 film)####
An U.S. Army captain is flying three misfit deserters home for a court martial when the airplane has engine trouble and they crash-land in the ocean near an uncharted island. There they find a primitive society of cave women who routinely sacrifice virgins to appease The Great One, the top-dog dinosaur on the island. Mistaken for gods as part of a prophecy, the men must destroy The Great One or face death, but meanwhile they fall in love despite the advice of their Queen, who tries to dissuade them from being corrupted by the outsiders' ways.

####Divergent (film)####
In a future dystopian Chicago, society is divided into five factions: Abnegation (the selfless), Amity (the peaceful), Candor (the honest), Dauntless (the brave), and Erudite (the intellectual). The remaining population, the Factionless, have no status or privilege. Upon turning 16, children undergo a serum-induced psychological aptitude test which indicates their best-suited faction, but can choose any faction as their permanent group at the subsequent Choosing Ceremony.

Beatrice Prior was born into Abnegation, which runs the government. Her father Andrew serves on the ruling council along with Abnegation's leader Marcus Eaton. After her test results show equal attributes of multiple factions (Abnegation, Erudite, and Dauntless), marking her as Divergent, her proctor Tori Wu, a Dauntless woman, records her results as Abnegation, warns her to conceal her true results, and says that because Divergents' can think independently and sense any serums injected into them, the government feels they threaten the existing social order.

The next day, at the Choosing Ceremony, Beatrice's brother Caleb chooses Erudite, while, after some hesitation, she chooses Dauntless. Afterwards, she meets Christina, Al, and Will, three other faction transfers to Dauntless. Christina and Al are from Candor, and Will is from Erudite. Eric Coulter, a brutal Dauntless leader, reminds the initiates that anyone not meeting the faction's high expectations of commitment and fearlessness will become Factionless. Beatrice volunteers to jump from a tall building into a dark hole and lands into a net. When Four, a transfer initiates' instructor, asks her name, she shortens it to "Tris", shedding her earlier identity.

Tris initially struggles in Dauntless training and ranks far below the cutoff after the first evaluation, but with Four's help, she slowly improves. Eric matches her against her nemesis, Candor transfer Peter Hayes, in a fight, who soundly defeats her. Unwilling to miss the most important test, Capture The Flag, she leaves the infirmary, joins the other initiates, secures her team's victory, and makes the final cut. In the next phase of training, the initiates face their worst fears in psychological simulations. Tris's divergence allows her to creatively solve the tests, but Four warns her to hide her abilities and to solve them as a normal Dauntless would, as Divergents can also manipulate tests and serums. Tris visits Caleb, who tells her that Erudite plans to overthrow Abnegation. When she returns, Al, Peter, and their fellow Candor transfer Drew attack her before Four rescues her. The next day, Al begs Tris to forgive him but she refuses and calls him a coward. He later kills himself by jumping into "The Pit," rather than live with the shame.

To prepare her for the final test, Four takes Tris into his own fear simulations, where she learns he is Tobias Eaton, and his father Marcus used to beat him as a child. Tris then passes her test and officially joins Dauntless. The other Dauntless are injected with a serum from Erudite, supposedly for tracking but actually for mind control. The next morning, the Dauntless prepare to execute Abnegation under Erudite's orders. As the new serum fails on Divergents, Tris must blend in to avoid suspicion. She finds Four, who identifies as Divergent. When the Dauntless move to raid Abnegation, the pair separate from the group and attempt to locate her parents, but Eric, realizing Four is not under control, captures both of them, taking Four into custody and ordering Tris's execution. Her mother Natalie appears and saves her but is shot and killed as they attempt escape.

Tris finds her father hiding with Caleb, Marcus, and several Abnegation members. The group sneaks into Dauntless headquarters, where Tris encounters Peter and forces him to lead them to Erudite's control center. Her father sacrifices himself in a shootout, and Tris goes in alone to find Four, now under stronger mind control designed for Divergents. Knowing his fears, she manages to wake him from the mind control, and both enter the central control room, where Erudite's leader Jeanine Matthews nearly has Dauntless execute the entire Abnegation faction. Tris uses a sample of the mind control serum on her to force her to cancel the program. The group escapes the compound and boards a train out of the complex.

####The Divergent Series: Allegiant####
Evelyn re-closes Chicago's wall, and puts Jeanine's coup supporters on trial for their lives. Johanna turns her back on this, and is followed by many newly christened Allegiants. Tris and Four free Caleb and escape over the wall with Tori, Christina, and Peter. Edgar leads Factionless guards to catch them, killing Tori. Edgar catches them in the wastelands, but unknown soldiers with advanced technology rescue the group.

The group is taken to the Bureau of Genetic Welfare, a city of advanced technology hidden behind a cloaking shield. Society's problems were caused by some people tampering with their offspring's genes to give them advantages, but this led to the Purity Wars that destroyed most of the planet. The genetically "pure" (as compared to those with gene modifications, the "damaged") created the Bureau and its series of experiments, located in isolated ruined cities, in an attempt to trigger a naturally pure genome; Tris is the first to show the desired outcome.

Caleb and Peter are assigned to surveillance teams that remotely monitor Chicago, while Christina and Four are assigned to train under Nita in the military. Matthew brings Tris to David, the leader of the Bureau, who gives Tris a device that allows her to view her mother's memories. She sees that her mother was rescued from the wastelands as a child, then volunteered to join the Chicago experiment. Caleb warns Four and Tris of the conflict in Chicago between Allegiants and Factionless. Tris agrees to help David to continue the experiment if he asks the council to intervene in the fighting.

During a military rescue mission to a wasteland village, Four realizes that the Bureau is kidnapping children and wiping their memories. He attempts to warn Tris of the Bureau's intentions, but David interrupts them. Four urges Tris to return with him to end the bloodshed, but she decides to go with David, who agrees to return Four to Chicago with Matthew and some Bureau soldiers. En route, Matthew quietly warns Four that David has ordered his death. Four kills the soldiers, but the transport crashes. Matthew gives Four a device to allow passage through the cloaking shield. Matthew returns to the Bureau — and warns Tris.

Tris disagrees with the council's actions, saying that pure versus damaged is no better than the Chicago Factions, and chastises their refusal to stop the violence in Chicago. The council reveals that David, not them, has full authority over Chicago. David tells her that he intends to reinforce the Factions.

Tris ends her partnership with David and gathers Caleb and Christina in David's hovercar to return to Chicago. Nita helps them escape, revealing that David's rule is not popular with the Bureau. The Factionless capture Four, who confronts Evelyn about ending the violence. Tris, Caleb, and Christina arrive to find the city tearing itself apart at the opening stage of a full assault by the Allegiant. At the Bureau, David makes a deal with Peter in exchange for Peter's promotion and insertion into Chicago to convince Evelyn to deploy a hidden Bureau stockpile of amnesia gas, creating peace by wiping all factions' memories. She agrees, so Peter takes her to a hidden vault.

Four, Tris and Christina fight through the Factionless and arrive at the vault. Four convinces Evelyn to stop the gas attack, as he would not remember her. She capitulates, but a frustrated Peter shoots her in the leg, gloating until the same gas starts flooding the vault itself. Realizing David has betrayed him, Peter opens the vault so that Tris and Four can stop the gas. Peter flees back towards the Bureau, though Four vows to find and kill him.

Caleb arrives and aids Tris in destroying the gas dispersion hub. The group gathers atop the Erudite building as it watches David's hovercar, which autopilots back towards the Bureau. Tris transmits a message to the world, revealing the existence of Bureau and that Chicago was an experiment in genetic purity. Her message tells the Bureau that Chicago is no longer their experiment. Caleb then detonates the explosives they loaded in the hovercar, disrupting the cloak shield and revealing the Bureau to the world.

####The Divergent Series: Insurgent####
Five days after the assault on the Abnegation faction by the Erudite leader Jeanine and her mind-controlled Dauntless soldiers, Jeanine has declared martial law and that the Divergents and their allies are the enemy. Among the Abnegation wreckage, the Dauntless leaders Max and Eric recover a box with all five faction symbols on its sides. Jeanine presumes that it contains data from the city's founders and the means to end the Divergence problem. As only Divergents can open the box, she orders all Divergents to be captured.

The 17-year-old Divergent Tris; her Divergent boyfriend, Four, her Erudite brother Caleb; and the Dauntless troublemaker Peter hide within the Amity compound, led by Johanna. Eric leads a Dauntless crew to test all the occupants for Divergence. Peter discloses the group's location as the others escape and board a train headed into Factionless territory. Four reveals to the Factionless that his real name is Tobias Eaton, the son of the Factionless leader Evelyn, whom he still resents for leaving him with his abusive father, Marcus. At the Factionless hideout, Evelyn suggests that Dauntless and Factionless unite against Erudite, but Four declines. The next morning, the three leave for Candor to meet up with the remaining Dauntless who were given shelter there, including Tori and Tris's best friend, Christina. During the trek, a disheartened Caleb splits from the group. Upon arrival, Tris and Four are arrested and brought before Candor leader Jack Kang, who intends to deliver them to Jeanine. However, Four pleads for a trial with the use of Candor's truth serum. The serum reveals the real events, and they are absolved, but Tris tearfully admits killing Christina's lover, Will, which angers Christina.

The Dauntless who have sided with Jeanine attack Candor, and many Candor members are shot with metal disks. Max and Eric capture Tris and discover that she has a Divergent reading of 100%, making her the perfect subject to open the box. Four arrives to save Tris and executes Eric for his crimes. Meanwhile, Jeanine, frustrated that none of the Divergent subjects has survived the simulations required to open the box, is approached by Peter, who suggests the best way to get to Tris is by exploiting her selfless Abnegation upbringing.

Back at the Factionless base, Four reluctantly agrees with Evelyn that war is inevitable. Jeanine activates the disks, which are a mind control device that causes Christina and her friends Marlene and Hector to walk robotically towards a ledge and to ask for Tris's surrender. Tris and Tori manage to grab Christina and Hector in time, but Marlene plunges to her death. Overcome by guilt, Tris decides to turn herself in to Jeanine.

At the Erudite headquarters, Tris threatens to kill herself, rather than comply, but she is stopped by the presence of Caleb, who is fully recommitted to Erudite. Tris agrees to undergo the trials if the suicides cease. Under Jeanine, Caleb, and Peter's watch, Tris overcomes the first four simulations before she requires rest. The next day, after discovering that Four was captured while he tried to rescue her, she fails the Amity trial, and her vital signs cease, shocking Jeanine. Peter takes her body to Four, reveals he faked her death, and assists Four in overpowering the guards. Tris is now determined to unveil the box's message and so with Peter's help, they return to the simulation room, and she successfully opens the box in front of everyone. A hologram explains that the walled city and the faction system were part of an experiment, with the Divergents as its ultimate goal. The world is waiting outside for them to rejoin it. Realizing that she has lost all of her power, Jeanine orders the box to be buried and Four and Tris to be executed. However, the Factionless break into the room, incapacitate Max, and rescue the pair. Jeanine and Caleb are arrested and the message is broadcast to the entire city. Hailed as a hero, Tris is eager to explore the outside world. In her cell, Jeanine wonders what might lie beyond the wall. Evelyn tells Jeanine that she will never find out, then kills her.

####Dune (1984 film)####
####Dune (2021 film)####

In the <!-- This wording was agreed upon on the talk page. Please do not change without consensus. -->distant future<!-- This wording was agreed upon on the talk page. Please do not change without consensus. -->, Duke Leto Atreides, ruler of the planet Caladan, is assigned by the Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV to replace Baron Vladimir Harkonnen as the fiefholder of Arrakis, a harsh desert planet and sole source of "spice", a valuable psychotropic drug that imparts heightened vitality and awareness. Spice is key to interstellar travel, giving Spacing Guild Navigators the ability to guide starships to traverse space instantaneously and safely. Shaddam plots for House Harkonnen to retake Arrakis, secretly aided by his Sardaukar troops, to destroy House Atreides. Leto is suspicious of the Emperor but weighs the risks against the power of controlling Arrakis and making an alliance with its mysterious natives, the Fremen.

Leto's concubine, Lady Jessica, is an acolyte of the Bene Gesserit, an exclusive sisterhood whose members possess advanced physical and mental abilities. As part of their centuries-long breeding program, they instructed her to bear a daughter whose son would become the Kwisatz Haderach, a Bene Gesserit and messianic superbeing with the clairvoyance necessary to guide humanity to a better future. However, she disobeyed and bore a son, Paul. Throughout his life, he is trained by Leto's aides, Duncan Idaho, Gurney Halleck, Suk doctor Wellington Yueh, and the Mentat Thufir Hawat, while Jessica teaches him Bene Gesserit disciplines. Paul confides in Jessica and Duncan that he is troubled by visions of the future. In response, the Reverend Mother and Imperial Truthsayer Gaius Helen Mohiam visits Caladan and subjects him to a death-alternative test to assess his humanity and impulse control, which he passes. Mohiam insists that Baron Vladimir Harkonnen spare Paul and Jessica during his coup, to which he duplicitously agrees.

House Atreides arrives at Arrakeen, the fortress stronghold on Arrakis. Duncan's advance party has made contact with the Fremen. The natives revere Paul and Jessica, which Jessica explains is due to the Bene Gesserit sowing beliefs on Arrakis centuries earlier. Leto negotiates with Fremen chieftain, Stilgar, and meets the Imperial Judge of the Change, Dr. Kynes, a planetologist who lives among the Fremen. Kynes briefs them on the dangers of spice harvesting, and the giant sandworms which travel under the desert and make the use of protective Holtzman shields unwise. During a flight, they dramatically rescue a stranded spice-harvesting crew from a sandworm; Paul's exposure to the spice triggers intense premonitions.

An attempt to assassinate Paul with a hunter-seeker fails. Yueh betrays the Atreides and disables Arrakeen's shields, allowing the Harkonnens and Sardaukar to invade. He incapacitates Leto, planning to exchange him for his wife, who is the Baron's prisoner. Yueh replaces one of Leto's teeth with a poison gas capsule with which the Duke can assassinate the Baron. Leto releases the gas, killing himself and the Baron's Mentat, Piter De Vries, but the Baron survives. Though the Baron has arranged to have Paul and Jessica dropped deep in the desert to die, a compassionate Yueh has left them with stillsuits and other survival supplies. Jessica uses a Bene Gesserit technique called "the Voice" to overpower and kill their captors. Paul and Jessica overnight in the desert where Paul, surrounded by spice, has visions of a bloody "holy war" fought across the universe in his name.

Baron Harkonnen gives command of Arrakis to his nephew, Rabban, and orders him to restart spice production to recover his costs. Paul and Jessica are found by Duncan and Kynes, and Paul discloses his plan to marry one of Shaddam's daughters to avert the civil war that will ensue from news of the Emperor's treachery. They are found by the Sardaukar, and Duncan sacrifices himself to allow Paul and Jessica to escape. Kynes is mortally wounded by Sardaukar but summons a sandworm that devours them. In the deep desert, Paul and Jessica encounter Stilgar's tribe, including Chani, the girl in Paul's visions. Fremen warrior Jamis challenges Stilgar's lenience to them and challenges Paul to a ritual duel to the death, which Paul wins. Against Jessica's wishes, Paul joins the Fremen to fulfill his father's goal of bringing peace to Arrakis.

####Dune: Part Two####
####The Dungeonmaster####
Paul Bradford (Jeffrey Byron) is a skilled computer programmer who lives with his girlfriend, Gwen (Leslie Wing), and "X-CaliBR8", a quasi-sentient personal computer that Paul programmed and which he interacts with via a neural interface. Gwen is jealous of Paul's unusually close relationship with X-CaliBR8, to whom Paul has given a female voice, and fears that their relationship will be destroyed by Paul's reliance on X-CaliBR8 for his various day-to-day activities.

One night, Paul and Gwen are both transported to a Hellish realm presided over by Mestema (Richard Moll), an ancient, demonic sorcerer who has spent millennia seeking a worthy opponent with whom to do battle. Having long defeated his enemies with magic, Mestema has become intrigued with technology, and wishes to pit his skills against Paul's, with the winner claiming Gwen. Arming Paul with a portable version of X-CaliBR8 (which takes the form of a computerized wrist band), Mestema begins transporting Paul into a variety of scenarios in which he must defeat various opponents. Most of the challenges involve Paul using his X-CaliBR8 wristband to shoot people, monsters, and objects with laser beams.

After Paul completes Mestema's various challenges, the two engage in a final battle, which takes the form of a fist fight in which Paul kills Mestema by throwing him into a pit of lava. After Mestema dies, Paul and Gwen are transported back to their house, where Gwen expresses her acceptance of X-CaliBR8 and suggests that she and Paul get married.

####E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial####
####Earth to Echo####

Three childhood friends, Alex, Tuck, and Munch, live in a small Nevada neighborhood that will soon be demolished for a highway construction project. The day before they're set to move, each of their phones start displaying mysterious patterns, which Munch discovers lead to coordinates in the nearby desert. They decide to spend their last night together biking to the coordinates to investigate, recording their experience on their smartphones and video cameras.

The three arrive at the coordinates and follow the map to a dusty, rusted object under an electrical tower. They take the object with them as they follow another map to a nearby barn, where the object telekinetically repairs itself using various objects around the barn. The boys discover the object contains a cybernetic alien that can answer yes or no questions. The alien reveals that it is from another planet and has accidentally crash landed on Earth after being shot down and is seriously injured as a result. The group follows another map to a pawn shop, where the object further repairs itself. With its eyes damaged, it uses Alex's phone camera to see. As they leave the pawn shop, they decide to name the alien Echo.

They follow another map to the house of Emma, a classmate of the boys, who discovers Echo and joins their group. They follow another map to an arcade, where Alex is caught by a security guard. Emma goes back to rescue him while Echo and Munch cause a distraction. After rescuing Alex, the four stop at a restaurant, keeping Echo hidden in a backpack, but a construction worker steals the backpack and loads it into a truck. Munch jumps into the back of the truck as it pulls away, leaving the rest of the group behind. To catch up to them, Alex and Emma help Tuck steal his brother's car, which they drive to the construction site Munch and Echo are being held at.

The three try to get in, but are stopped by the same construction worker, who reveals himself as Dr. Lawrence Masden, a scientist who intends to keep Echo on Earth so that he can study its technology. Masden's group are revealed as the group that shot Echo down in the first place. Masden tries to convince the kids that if Echo repairs the spaceship and takes off in it, it will kill everyone in the neighborhood; the kids pretend to be convinced, and promise to help Masden find the spaceship if he takes them to Munch and Echo. Masden brings the three to a scrap junkyard, where Echo seemingly dies as a result of the violent experimentation inflicted on him, but with encouragement from the kids, he revives, completes his repairs, and distracts the agents long enough for the kids to drive back home. At Alex's house, the spaceship key goes into the ground by itself, and they realize the agents invented the false construction project as a cover to dig up the neighborhood, as the entire ship is in the ground beneath it.

Trusting Echo, Alex takes him down the hole made by the key. At the bottom, the group finds a room that turns out to be the spaceship's core, where the key connects to the rest of it. Once the key is connected to the core, allowing Echo to use it to pilot the ship, he begins starting up the ship. After they all say goodbye and the kids exit the core, the ship's separate parts telekinetically come out of the ground all over the neighborhood, and reassemble it in mid-air, and all without destroying the neighborhood. Once fully reassembled, the ship then flies away. The project put on by the agents is abandoned but Alex and Munch relocate anyway, as their families have already bought new homes elsewhere. However, as Tuck's didn't, he stays, and new neighbors and residents move in to the neighborhood. Sometime later, the three and Emma meet up again, as the film ends with Alex holding up his phone towards the sky.

In a post-credit scene, Alex addresses his friends as his phone apparently starts to move and glitch out.

####Edge of Tomorrow####
In 2015, aliens called "Mimics" arrive in Germany via an asteroid and swiftly conquer most of continental Europe. By 2020, the United Defense Force (UDF), a global military alliance established to combat the alien threat, finally achieves a victory over the Mimics at Verdun using newly developed mech-suits. In Britain, the UDF plans a major invasion of France, and General Brigham orders recently attached public affairs officer Major William "Bill" Cage to cover it. Cage, having no combat experience, objects and threatens to blame Brigham if the invasion fails. Brigham has Cage arrested and sent to Heathrow Airport, now a military base. Cage awakens to find Brigham has demoted him to a private and falsely labelled him a deserter. He is assigned to Master Sergeant Farell and the misfit J-Squad, all of whom dislike and belittle him.

On the morning of the invasion, Farell and J-Squad are quickly killed by the Mimics who were somehow aware of their planned invasion and ambushed them. Cage uses a Claymore mine to kill an unusually large blue Mimic but is mortally wounded by the explosion and covered in the alien's blood. Cage jolts awake to find himself back at Heathrow, reliving the previous morning. His attempts to warn Farell against the invasion are ignored and he experiences the loop of dying on the beach and waking at Heathrow repeatedly. With every subsequent loop, Cage's battlefield skills become more and more impressive. During one loop, Cage tries to save Sergeant Rita Vrataski, a celebrated hero of the battle of Verdun. Upon seeing his preternatural talent, Vrataski realizes Cage can loop time and orders him to find her the next time he wakes up.

Cage reawakens and locates Vrataski, who takes him to Dr. Carter, an expert in Mimic biology. He explains that the Mimics are a superorganism in which the "Omega" controls the cerebrum, while the "Alphas" behave as the ganglia through which the Omega controls ordinary Mimics; if an Alpha is terminated, the Omega resets the day and adjusts its tactics until the battle is won. Cage inadvertently "hijacked" their ability to reset time through his exposure to an Alpha's blood. Vrataski had this ability at Verdun, using it to win the battle before she was wounded and received a blood transfusion, losing the power. She tells Cage to locate and kill the Omega to end the alien invasion.

Over many more loops, Vrataski trains Cage to excel in combat. After a frustrating lesson, Cage escapes to London, only to discover that the Mimics will attack there next after the invasion. After seeing visions of a dam in Switzerland where the Omega is hiding and spending many loops figuring how to escape the invasion and reach the dam, Cage grows closer to Vrataski, but she is only interested in the mission. Convinced that the pair always reach a point on the journey where Vrataski is killed no matter what they do, Cage flies to the dam alone. The Omega is not there and he is ambushed by an Alpha which attempts to strip him of his ability to reset time, but Cage deliberately drowns himself.

Cage and Vrataski infiltrate the Ministry of Defence, where Cage convinces Brigham to give him Carter's prototype device (which Brigham had confiscated from Carter before sending him to a psych ward) that can locate the Omega, but they are pursued by military police on leaving. During the ensuing car chase, Cage uses the device and discovers the Omega is under the Louvre Pyramid in Paris. Cage is seriously injured during capture and wakes up in a hospital to find he has been given a blood transfusion and has lost the ability to loop time.

Vrataski frees Cage and they recruit J-Squad to help destroy the Omega before the invasion begins. They fly to Paris, where the soldiers sacrifice themselves so that Cage and Vrataski can reach the Louvre. Before luring away an Alpha standing between them and the submerged Omega, Vrataski kisses Cage to thank him for getting her as far as he did. The Alpha kills Vrataski and mortally wounds Cage, but he manages to drop a belt of grenades that destroys the Omega.

As a dying Cage floats down into the Omega's blood, he awakens en route to his first meeting with Brigham, who announces on TV that Mimic activity has ceased following a mysterious energy surge in Paris. Cage goes to Heathrow, now a Major again, and sees that all of J-Squad is alive. He later finds Vrataski, who doesn't recognize him; Cage laughs.

####The Electric State####
####Ender's Game (film)####
####Escape from the Planet of the Apes####
Escaping Earth prior to its destruction, the chimpanzees Cornelius, Zira and Dr. Milo salvage and repair Taylor's spaceship. The shock wave of Earth's destruction sends the ship through a time warp that brings the apes to 1973 Earth. Most specifically, the Pacific coast of the United States.

The apes are transported to the Los Angeles Zoo, under the observation of two friendly scientists, Dr. Stephanie Branton and Dr. Lewis Dixon. During their stay there, Dr. Milo is killed by a zoo gorilla.

A Presidential Commission is formed to investigate the return of Taylor's spaceship and its inhabitants. During their interrogation, Cornelius and Zira deny knowing Taylor. They reveal, however, that they came from the future and escaped Earth when a war broke out. They are welcomed as guests of the government. The apes secretly explain to Stephanie and Lewis how humans are treated in the future, and tell them about Earth's destruction. The scientists are shocked but still sympathetic, and advise the couple to keep this information secret until they can gauge the potential reaction of their hosts.

Lavished with gifts and media attention, the apes become celebrities. They come to the attention of the President's Science Advisor Dr. Otto Hasslein, who discovers Zira is pregnant. Fearing for the future of the human race, Hasslein insists that he simply wants to know how apes became dominant over men. Cornelius reveals that the human race will cause its own downfall and that Earth's destruction is caused by a weapon made by humans. Zira explains that the gorillas started the war, but the chimpanzees had nothing to do with it. Hasslein suspects that the apes are not speaking the whole truth.

During the original hearing, Zira accidentally reveals that she used to dissect humans. Hasslein orders Lewis to administer a truth serum to her while Cornelius is confined elsewhere. As a result of the serum, Hasslein learns details about Zira's experimentation on humans along with her knowledge of Taylor.

Zira joins Cornelius in confinement while Hasslein takes his findings to the President, who reluctantly abides by the council's ruling to have her pregnancy be terminated and that both apes be sterilized. In their chambers, Zira and Cornelius fear for their lives. When an orderly arrives to offer the apes food, his jokes about their unborn child make Cornelius lose his temper. He knocks the orderly to the floor, before escaping with Zira. They assume the orderly is merely knocked out, but he is actually dead. Hasslein uses the tragedy in support of his claim that the apes are a threat. He calls for their execution, but is ordered by the President to bring them in alive, unwilling to endorse capital punishment until due process has been served.

Branton and Dixon help the apes escape, taking them to a circus run by Señor Armando, where an ape named Heloise has just given birth. Zira gives birth to a son and names him Milo, in honor of their deceased friend. Knowing that Zira's labor was imminent, Hasslein orders a search of all circuses and zoos, and Armando insists the apes leave for their safety. Lewis arranges for the apes to hide out the Los Angeles harbor's shipyard for a while. He gives Cornelius a pistol as the couple does not want to be taken alive.

Tracking the apes to the shipping yard, Hasslein mortally wounds Zira and kills the infant she is holding. Cornelius shoots down Hasslein, and then dies at the hands of a sniper. Zira tosses the dead baby over the side and crawls to die with her husband, witnessed by a grieving Lewis and Stephanie.

It is revealed that Zira switched babies with Heloise before leaving the circus. Armando is aware of this and prepares to leave for Florida. Milo then begins to talk.

####Escape to Witch Mountain (1975 film)####
####Escape to Witch Mountain (1995 film)####
####Fantastic Four (2005 film)####
Dr. Reed Richards, along with his friend, Ben Grimm, convinces Dr. Victor Von Doom, CEO of Von Doom Industries, to allow him access to his space station to test the effects of exposure of clouds of cosmic energy on biological samples. Von Doom agrees, and recruits his chief genetics researcher (and Reed's ex-girlfriend) Susan Storm and her reckless brother Johnny Storm.

They arrive in space to study the cosmic clouds, but the clouds arrive ahead of schedule. Reed, Susan, and Johnny leave the shielded station to rescue Ben, out on a space-walk to place the samples, while Victor closes the shields behind them to keep himself protected. The storm breaks through the station and strikes the four. They return home but soon begin to develop strange powers. Reed is able to stretch like rubber, Susan can become invisible and create force fields, Johnny can engulf himself in fire, and Ben is transformed into a large, rock-based creature with superhuman strength and durability. Victor meanwhile faces a backlash from his stockholders due to the publicity from the failed mission.

On the Brooklyn Bridge, Ben accidentally causes a traffic pile-up while stopping a man from committing suicide. The four use their various powers to contain the damage and save lives. While the public cheer them for their efforts, Ben's fiancee arrives to silently split their engagement, unable to accept him for his condition. Reed vows to a heartbroken Ben to reverse the effects. The media dubs them "The Fantastic Four," and Victor exploits the news story to his stockholders, but they decide to pull out of Von Doom Industries. The four move into Reed's lab in the Baxter Building to study their abilities and work on finding a cure. Victor offers his support in their efforts, but blames Reed for the mission's failure.

Reed plans to construct a machine to re-create the storm and reverse their conditions. However, Johnny refuses to cooperate, insisting they should just embrace that their powers. Meanwhile, Victor, having also been affected by the storm due to the shields' malfunctioning, begins mutating into organic metal and is able to produce electricity, and begins plotting to use his new powers to take his revenge.

Victor drives a wedge between Ben and Reed, resulting in Ben walking out in rage. This motivates Reed to attempt the machine on himself, but he cannot generate enough power to push the storm to critical mass. Victor hears this, and brings Ben to the lab. Ben is placed in the machine and Doom uses his abilities to produce the electricity needed to power it, turning Ben back to normal and accelerating Doom's condition, causing much of his body to turn to metal. Victor knocks Ben unconscious and kidnaps Reed.

Victor, now calling himself "Doom," tortures Reed using a super-cooling unit and fires a heat-seeking missile at the Baxter Building to kill Johnny. He flies through the city to evade it, lighting a garbage barge on fire to trick it. Sue rushes to free Reed and battles Doom but is outmatched. Ben arrives to help, transformed into The Thing again by reusing the machine. The battle spills into the streets, and the four assemble to battle Doom. Johnny and Susan combine their powers to wrap Doom in an inferno of intense heat, and Ben and Reed douse him with cold water, inducing thermal shock and freezing Doom in place.

In an epilogue, Ben tells Reed to forget about his experiment with the machine, as he has accepted his condition through his relationship with Alicia Masters, a blind artist. The team decide to embrace their roles as superheroes, and Reed proposes to Sue. Meanwhile, a frozen Doom is transported back to his homeland of Latveria.

####The Fantastic Four (unreleased film)####
Reed Richards and Victor Von Doom are college friends who use the opportunity of a passing comet to try an experiment. It goes wrong, leaving Victor believed dead. Susan and Johnny Storm are two children living with their mother, who has a boarding house where Reed lives. Ben Grimm is a family friend and a college buddy of Reed's.

Ten years later, Reed, Susan, Johnny and Ben participate in a mission in an experimental spacecraft of Reed's as the same comet passes Earth. Unbeknownst to them, a crucial diamond component designed to protect them from the comet's cosmic rays, has been replaced with an imitation by a criminal named The Jeweler, leaving them exposed to the radiation.

After crash-landing on Earth they discover that the cosmic rays have given them special powers: Reed's bodily structure has become elastic, Susan can become invisible, Johnny can generate fire on demand and Ben has transformed into a creature with stone-like skin.

They are later captured by men posing as Marines and are taken to Victor who has become the villainous monarch Dr. Doom. They escape and meet at the Baxter Building, trying to decide how to move forward with their superpowers. An angry Ben leaves them to go out on his own, feeling he has become a freak. He is found by homeless men and joins them in the lair of the Jeweler.

The Jeweler has his henchmen kidnap blind artist Alicia Masters whom he plans to force into being his bride, intending to use the stolen diamond as his wedding gift to her. Doom, who has his own plans for the diamond, sends his henchmen to The Jeweler to make a deal for it but to no avail. Doom seizes the diamond himself, and a gun battle breaks out between his men and The Jeweler's. When Ben enters the fray, Doom takes Alicia hostage. When Ben threatens to 'clobber' Doom, Alicia begs him not to risk it and confesses her love for him. Her confession changes Ben back to human form and he flees into the city streets. Frustrated at his helplessness he reverts to the Thing.

When Ben returns to his friends, Reed has learned that Doom is actually Victor. Doom contacts them and threatens to use the diamond to power a laser cannon that will destroy New York City unless they surrender to him. Realizing they are the only ones who can stop him, they don costumes and travel to Doom's castle where they confront waves of his military forces. As Reed battles him, Doom manages to fire his laser but is knocked off a balcony wall. As he clings to the wall Reed tries to rescue him but Doom's gauntlet comes loose and he falls into the fog below. His gauntlet (still on the balcony) starts to move on its own. Meanwhile, Johnny has become the Human Torch and flies off to intercept the laser's shot, deflecting away from the city and into outer space. Ben frees Alicia and finally introduces himself to her. She feels the rocky surface of his face but is not fazed by his altered appearance. The Four dedicate themselves to fighting evil and Reed and Susan marry.

####Firelight (1964 film)####
"Firelight" follows a group of scientists — particularly Tony Karcher and UFO believer Howard Richards — as they investigate a series of colored lights in the sky and the subsequent disappearance of people, animals and objects from the fictional American town of Freeport, Arizona.<ref name="Bose"/> Among those abducted are a dog, a unit of soldiers and a young girl named Lisa, whose abduction induces a heart attack in her mother. The film has sub-plots involving marital discord between Karcher and his wife Debbie, and the obsessive quest of Richards to convince the CIA that alien life exists. The twist comes as the aliens, represented by three shadows, reveal their purpose: to transport Freeport to their home planet Altaris to create a human zoo.

####The Flame Barrier####
American satellite X-117, carrying a chimpanzee, has unexpectedly fallen back to Earth after entering a non-existent/fictional part of the stratosphere known as "the flame barrier", which encircles Earth at an altitude of 200 miles. Howard Dahlman (Dan Gachman), a rich businessman and ardent amateur space program enthusiast, went into the Mexican jungle to recover the satellite, but never returned. His wife, Carol (Kathleen Crowley), sets out to find him.

Arriving in Campeche, Mexico, Carol meets two jungle guides, the ill-tempered Dave Hollister (Arthur Franz) and his drunken but good-hearted brother, Matt (Robert Brown). When she asks their help, Dave refuses, citing the coming rainy season. But he changes his mind after Carol gives in to his extravagant demand for $7,000 each for him and Matt if Howard is alive or 10 percent of his estate if he is dead. Dave asks Carol which is more important to her, Howard or the money from his estate. She hesitates before saying unconvincingly that she wants to find her husband alive.

Carol, Dave, Matt and their native porters head into the jungle with a copy of Howard's map. It shows the route he took to the X-117 crash site, 200 miles from Campeche.

In the jungle, they find a burned skeleton. Dave examines it and tells Carol that it is not Howard. Dave asks if she loves Howard. Carol says that she does not know and that perhaps this is what she is trying to learn on the expedition. In return, Dave says that he too had had an unhappy marriage.

At their camp, Dave, Matt and the porters bring in a badly burned tribesman. Dave attempts to treat him, but the man dies. The porters say that the God of Fire is responsible. To everyone's shock, the man's body suddenly bursts into flames, leaving a skeleton similar to the one they had found earlier.

Despite the rigors of the trek, Carol and Dave's mutual attraction grows. They kiss passionately later that night.

One by one the porters run off, leaving Carol, Dave and Matt on their own. They soon find Howard's abandoned camp. It has solar power and, surprisingly, the chimp from the satellite is there. Carol says that she is now convinced that Howard is dead, but Dave says that they must find Howard's body to legally prove it. A tribesman appears and takes them to the cave where he says the God of Fire lives.

Inside the cave, they find X-117 surrounded by an alien blob, out of which Howard's perfectly preserved head protrudes. But the chimp disintegrates as it approaches the blob, which itself is surrounded by a deadly invisible electric field. Dave and Matt calculate that the blob doubles in size every two hours. At that rate, it will expand out of the cave and overtake them if they try to outrun it. Their only chance is to destroy it inside the cave.

Dave notices that X-117 is sitting on two veins of metallic ore. He says that if they connect a solar battery to both veins, they can perhaps electrocute the blob and kill it. But by the time they have prepared everything, they have only eight minutes before the blob again doubles in size. Matt climbs to the vein above the blob. Unfortunately, they have miscalculated and the blob suddenly begins to expand. Matt dives into the blob, sacrificing himself, but giving Dave just enough time to electrocute it.

With the blob dead, Carol and Dave walk slowly away, arm in arm.

####Flight of the Navigator####
####Flying Disc Man from Mars####
Martian invader, Mota (Gregory Gaye), attempts to conquer the Earth as Mars is worried about its use of new atomic technology. The Martians consider that it would be much safer, and beneficial for both Earth and Mars, if the Martians were in charge.  Mota, having been shot down by an experimental ray gun, blackmails American scientist, and former Nazi, Dr. Bryant (James Craven) into assisting him and hires some criminals to be his henchmen.

Kent Fowler (Walter Reed), the private pilot who shot down Mota with Dr. Bryant's ray gun, gets caught up in these events while working security for atomic industrial sites.

####Forever Young (1992 film)####
In 1939, Captain Daniel McCormick is a United States Army Air Corps test pilot. After a successful run and subsequent crash landing in a prototype North American B-25 Mitchell bomber at Alexander Field in Northern California, McCormick is greeted by his longtime friend, scientist Harry Finley. Finley confides that his latest experiment, "Project B", has succeeded in building a prototype chamber for cryonic freezing. The following day, just as McCormick is about to propose to his girlfriend, Helen, she goes into a coma following an automobile accident, with doctors doubting she will ever recover. McCormick insists he be put into suspended animation for one year, so he will not have to watch Helen die.

Fifty-three years later in 1992, ten-year-old airplane-enthusiast Nat Cooper and his friend Felix are playing inside the military storage warehouse housing the chamber, accidentally activating it and waking McCormick, leaving Nat's coat behind. McCormick awakens and escapes before realizing what year it is. He first approaches the military about his experiences, but they dismiss him as crazed; McCormick becomes more determined to learn what happened to him.

McCormick follows the address on the jacket back to Nat, befriending him. While hiding in Nat's treehouse, he rescues Nat's mother Claire from her abusive ex-boyfriend Fred, slightly injuring his hand in the process. Claire fixes up his wound and a bond develops between the two; she allows McCormick to stay, and he and Nat later build a simulated bomber-plane cockpit in Nat's treehouse so that McCormick can teach Nat how to fly. McCormick passes out and is hospitalized, where he discovers his body is failing as his age begins to catch up to him.

McCormick tracks down Finley's daughter Susan, who informs him her father died in a fire before she was born. She gives McCormick her father's journals, detailing the cryogenic process, and Finley's notes disclose that the rapid aging is irreversible. Susan also reveals that Helen is still alive, but they escape before the FBI, who is now after McCormick, catch up to them.

Claire drives McCormick to an air show and commandeers a B-25 bomber to fly to Helen's seaside-lighthouse home, with Nat stowing away on board. Claire gives Harry's journals to the FBI, for their plans to replicate and modernize the experiment. McCormick suffers another ageing attack, forcing Nat (who is now slightly familiar with the plane's controls after his simulated-training session with McCormick) to land the plane in the field near Helen's house. The now-elderly McCormick reunites with the also-gray-and-wrinkled Helen and asks her to marry him; she happily accepts, proving that true love does indeed last forever. McCormick introduces Nat to Helen, and the film ends with the three joining hands and going for a seaside stroll together.

####Ghost in the Shell (2017 film)####
In the near future, humans are augmented with cybernetic improvements such as vision, strength and intelligence. Augmentation developer Hanka Robotics establishes a secret project to develop an artificial body, or "shell", that can integrate a human brain rather than an AI. Mira Killian, the sole survivor of a cyberterrorist attack which killed her parents, is chosen as the test subject after her body is damaged beyond repair. Over the objections of her designer Dr. Ouelet, Hanka Robotics CEO, Cutter, decides to use Killian as a counter-terrorism operative.

A year later, Killian has attained the rank of Major in the counter-terrorism bureau Section 9, working alongside operatives Batou and Togusa under Chief Daisuke Aramaki. Killian, who experiences hallucinations that Ouelet dismisses as glitches, is troubled as she doesn't clearly remember her past. The team thwarts a terrorist attack on a Hanka business conference, and Killian destroys a robotic geisha after the robot kills a hostage. After learning that the geisha was hacked by an unknown entity known as Kuze, Killian breaks protocol and "dives" into its AI for answers. The entity attempts a counter-hack, and Batou is forced to disconnect her. They trace the hacker to a yakuza nightclub, where they are lured into a trap. The explosion destroys Batou's eyes and damages Killian's body. Cutter is enraged by Killian's actions, and threatens to have Section 9 shut down unless Aramaki keeps her in line.

Kuze tracks down Section 9's Hanka consultant, Dr. Dahlin, and kills her. The team links her murder to the deaths of other senior company researchers and realize that Ouelet is the next target. Kuze takes control of two sanitation workers and sends them to kill Ouelet. Now with cybernetic eyes, Batou kills one while the repaired Killian subdues the other. While they interrogate the worker, Kuze speaks through him before compelling him to commit suicide. Togusa traces the hack to a secret location, where the team discovers a large number of humans mentally linked as a makeshift signal network. Killian is captured and Kuze reveals himself as a failed Hanka test subject from the same project that created Killian, where he urges her to question her own memories and to stop taking her medication as it actually helps to block her memories. Kuze then frees her and escapes.

Killian confronts Ouelet, who admits that 98 test subjects died before Killian, and that her memories are implanted. Cutter has decided that Killian is a liability and orders Ouelet to kill her after she returns to Hanka Robotics. Instead, Ouelet gives Killian an address and helps her escape. Cutter kills Ouelet, but blames Killian, saying that she has gone rogue. He informs Aramaki and the team that Killian must be terminated. Killian follows the address to an apartment occupied by a widowed mother, who reveals that her daughter Motoko Kusanagi ran away from home a year ago and was arrested; while in custody, Motoko took her own life. Killian leaves and contacts Aramaki, who allows Cutter to remotely eavesdrop on their conversation.

Batou, Togusa and Aramaki eliminate Cutter's men trying to ambush them, while Killian follows her memories to the hideaway where Motoko was last seen. She and Kuze meet and recall their past lives as anti-augmentation radicals who were abducted by Hanka as test subjects. Cutter deploys a "spider-tank" to kill them. Kuze nearly dies before Killian is able to tear out the tank's Motor Control Center, losing an arm in the process. Mortally wounded, Kuze asks Killian to join him in leaving this world, but Killian refuses and tells Kuze that he will always be with her in her ghost then fades out. A Hanka sniper kills him. Batou and the team rescue Killian, while Aramaki executes Cutter with Killian's consent. The next day, now repaired and embracing her true identity as the Japanese Motoko, Killian reconnects with her mother and returns to work with Section 9.

####Godzilla (2014 film)####

In 1954, Godzilla, a prehistoric alpha predator, is lured to Bikini Atoll in an attempt to kill him with a nuclear bomb. In 1999, Monarch scientists Ishiro Serizawa and Vivienne Graham investigate the skeleton of a monster similar to Godzilla in a cavern unearthed by a collapsed uranium mine in the Philippines. They also find two giant spores, one dormant and one hatched, along with a trail leading to the sea. In Japan, the Janjira Nuclear Power Plant experiences unusual seismic activity as supervisor Joe Brody sends his wife Sandra to lead a team of technicians into the reactor. A tremor breaches the reactor, forcing Joe to close the reactor door before Sandra and her team can escape while the plant collapses.

Fifteen years later, Joe and Sandra's son Ford, a U.S. Navy EOD officer, returns from a tour of duty to his wife Elle and son Sam in San Francisco, but must immediately depart for Japan after Joe is detained for trespassing in Janjira's quarantine zone. Joe is determined to find out the cause of the meltdown and persuades Ford to accompany him to retrieve vital data from their old home. They learn that the zone is uncontaminated and retrieve the data, but are discovered and taken to a facility in the plant's ruins. The facility harbors a massive chrysalis that had been feeding off the plant's reactors for 15 years and emitting intense electromagnetic pulses over time. A giant winged insect-like creature emerges from the chrysalis and escapes, destroying the facility. Joe is severely injured and later dies. The incident is reported publicly as an earthquake.

Serizawa and Graham join a U.S. Navy task force led by Admiral William Stenz to search for the creature, dubbed a "MUTO" (Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organism). Serizawa and Graham reveal to Ford that a 1954 deep-sea expedition awakened Godzilla. Nuclear tests in the 1950s were attempts to kill him; when this did not work, Project Monarch was established to study Godzilla and similar monsters secretly. They also explain that the MUTO caused the Janjira meltdown. Ford reveals Joe had monitored echolocation signals indicating the MUTO was communicating with something, presumably Godzilla.

The MUTO attacks a Russian submarine and drops it in O'ahu to eat its nuclear material. Godzilla arrives, causing a tsunami in Honolulu, and briefly engages the MUTO in battle until it flees. Serizawa deduces Godzilla was only listening as the MUTO was communicating with something else, prompting the military to investigate the other spore stored in the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository in Nevada. However, a second, bigger, wingless MUTO has already emerged and attacks Las Vegas. The scientists deduce that it is female and was what the male was communicating with, their signals being a mating call.

Over the scientists' objections, Stenz approves a plan of using nuclear warheads to lure all three monsters out into the open ocean and destroy them. Returning to the U.S., Ford joins the team delivering the warheads by train, but the female MUTO intercepts them and devours most of the warheads. The remaining warhead is airlifted with Ford to San Francisco, where the monsters are converging, and activated after Godzilla appears at the Golden Gate Bridge, only for the male MUTO to snatch it and take it to the female, who forms a nest around it in the Chinatown area.

While Godzilla and the MUTOs battle, Ford and a strike team enter the city via HALO jump to find and disarm the warhead before it detonates. Unable to access the timer, the team gets the warhead onto a boat for disposal at sea while Ford destroys the nest. Godzilla defeats the MUTOs and collapses on the shore from exhaustion. Ford gets the boat out to the open sea, is rescued before the warhead explodes, and reunites with his family at an emergency shelter the following morning.

Godzilla reawakens and returns to the sea, while the media dubs him the "King of the Monsters" and speculate whether he might be a savior.

####Gravity (2013 film)####

The Space Shuttle "Explorer", commanded by veteran astronaut Matt Kowalski, is in Earth orbit to service the Hubble Space Telescope (HST). Dr. Ryan Stone is aboard on her first space mission, to perform a set of hardware upgrades on the Hubble. During a spacewalk, Mission Control in Houston warns "Explorer"'s crew about a rapidly expanding cloud of space debris accidentally caused by the Russians having shot down a presumed defunct spy satellite (see Kessler syndrome) and orders the crew to return to Earth immediately. Communication with Mission Control is lost shortly thereafter as more communication satellites are disabled by debris.

Debris strikes the "Explorer" and Hubble, tearing Stone from the shuttle and leaving her tumbling through space. Kowalski, using a Manned Maneuvering Unit (MMU), rescues Stone, and they return to the Explorer, discovering that the Shuttle has suffered catastrophic damage and the rest of the crew are dead. Stone and Kowalski decide to use the MMU to reach the International Space Station (ISS), which is in orbit about convert|900|mi||-1|abbr=on|order=flip away, Kowalski estimating that they have 90 minutes before the debris field completes an orbit and threatens them again.

On their way to the ISS, the two discuss Stone's home life and her daughter, who died young in an accident. As they approach the station, they see that the ISS's crew has evacuated using one of its two Soyuz spacecraft, the remaining Soyuz spacecraft exhibiting damage with its parachute having been deployed in space rendering it unable to return to Earth. Kowalski suggests using it to travel to the nearby Tiangong space station,refn|name=Distinction|group=N|This Tiangong Space Station discussed here is Tiangong-1. convert|100|km|-1|abbr=on away, in order to board the Shenzhou spacecraft to return safely to Earth. Out of air and maneuvering fuel, the two try to grab onto the ISS; the duo's tether snags on one of the station's solar panels. Stone's leg gets entangled in the Soyuz's parachute cords and she grabs a strap on Kowalski's suit, but it soon becomes clear that the cords will not support them both. Despite Stone's protests, Kowalski detaches himself from the tether to save her from drifting away with him. Stone is pulled back towards the ISS, while Kowalski floats away.

Stone enters the space station via the airlock of the "Pirs" module. She cannot re-establish communication with Kowalski or Earth, and concludes that she is now the sole survivor. Inside the station, a fire breaks out, forcing her to rush to the Soyuz. As she maneuvers the Soyuz away from the ISS, the tangled parachute tethers snag, preventing the spacecraft from leaving; Stone performs a spacewalk to cut the cables, succeeding just as the debris field returns, destroying the station. Stone angles the Soyuz towards Tiangong, but soon discovers that the Soyuz's engine has no fuel.

After an attempt at radio communication with an Inuit on Earth, Stone resigns herself to her fate and shuts down the cabin's oxygen supply to die by suicide. As she begins to lose consciousness, there is a knock on the window, and Kowalski enters the capsule. Scolding her for giving up, he tells her to rig the Soyuz's soft landing rockets to propel the capsule toward Tiangong, before himself disappearing. Realizing Kowalski's appearance was a hallucination, Stone regains the will to go on, restoring the spacecraft's oxygen flow and rigging the landing rockets to propel the capsule towards Tiangong.

Unable to dock with Tiangong, Stone ejects herself from the Soyuz and uses a fire extinguisher as a makeshift thruster to travel to the rapidly deorbiting Tiangong. Stone manages to enter Tiangong's Shenzhou capsule just as the station enters the upper atmosphere, undocking the capsule just in time.

The Shenzhou capsule re-enters the atmosphere successfully, despite damage during its descent, and lands in a lake. Radio communication from Houston informs Stone that she has been tracked on radar and that rescue crews are on their way. Stone opens the hatch but is unable to exit due to water rushing in. She takes a deep breath and holds it until the capsule sinks, allowing her to swim through the hatch. She sheds her Sokol space suit that is weighing her down, and crawls onto the beach before standing up triumphantly and walking away.

####Hangar 18 (film)####
"Hangar 18" is about a cover-up following a UFO incident aboard the Space Shuttle. A satellite, just launched from the orbiter, collides with an unidentified object which, after being spotted on radar moving at great speeds, had positioned itself just over the shuttle. The collision kills an astronaut in the launch bay. The events are witnessed by Bancroft and Price, the astronauts aboard. After returning to Earth, they are stonewalled when they try to discuss what happened. Harry Forbes, Deputy Director of NASA, simply tells them that "everything is going to be all right".

After it makes a controlled landing in the Arizona desert, the damaged alien spacecraft is taken to Wolf Air Force Base in Texas and installed in Hangar 18, where scientists and other technicians, headed by Harry Forbes, can study it. Due to an impending presidential election, government officials are anxious to prevent any public knowledge of the event.

Meanwhile, unbeknownst to Forbes, the Air Force puts out a news story blaming Bancroft and Price for the death of their colleague and for the destruction of the satellite. The men know they can prove their innocence by viewing the telemetry tapes which recorded the UFO; but when they view them, all evidence of the object has been erased. Through a friend who works at a remote tracking station, they see the real telemetry and discover where the alien craft landed. They set out to expose the cover-up and clear their names.

In the hangar, investigators who enter the ship find its two crew members are dead. They determine that, during the collision with the satellite, chemicals were released in the craft that produced a short-lived toxic gas. They find a human woman in a stasis chamber, who later wakes up screaming. They realize that symbols on the control panels match those used by ancient Earth civilizations. Video on the ship's computer shows extensive surveillance of power plants, military bases, industrial plants and major cities worldwide. Autopsies performed on the aliens show that they and humans had similar evolutionary processes. A scientist deduces that the ship could not have reached Earth on its own, but must have been launched from a much larger, faster and more long-ranged mother ship.

In their pursuit of the truth, Bancroft and Price get closer to Hangar 18 but are targets of government agents. They elude one team, who are killed during a high-speed chase. Later, they find the brakes on their rental car have stopped working, and after careening along roads, they come to rest on the grounds of a gas refinery. Agents begin shooting at them, so they drive off in an oil tanker. With the agents in pursuit, Price climbs onto the tanker, lets some gas out of the truck, lights an emergency flare, and tosses it. Their pursuers crash and are killed, but Price is fatally shot. When Forbes learns of Price's death, he demands the Air Force take Bancroft to Hangar 18 or he will go to the press with the truth. Their cover-up and careers now threatened, government officials decide to remotely fly an explosives-filled plane into Hangar 18 to destroy all evidence of the event.

The researchers have determined that the aliens have been to Earth before and that human beings are, in fact, their descendants. Further examination of the video footage reveals that the industrial and military sites are "designated landing areas", suggesting the aliens are preparing to return.

When Bancroft arrives at the base, he crashes through the base's security gate and, hiding in a warehouse, is discovered by Forbes, who takes him to Hangar 18 and the alien craft. Just as a researcher reveals that a translation of the aliens' language indicates that they are about to return, the plane crashes into Hangar 18, creating a huge explosion.

The next day, a news report says that Bancroft, Forbes and their group of technicians survived the blast, shielded inside an alien spacecraft. Forbes schedules a press conference for that afternoon.

####The Host (2013 film)####
Small parasitic aliens called "Souls", who travel to planets inserting themselves into a host body of that planet's dominant species while suppressing the host's consciousness, have taken over the human race. Deeming humans too violent to deserve the planet, they have now almost successfully conquered Earth. The original owner's consciousness is erased, but the Souls can access the host's memories, and occupied hosts are identifiable by silver rings in their eyes.

A human on the run, Melanie Stryder, is captured and infused with a Soul called "Wanderer", whom a "Seeker" soul has asked to access Melanie's memories and learn the location of a pocket of unassimilated humans. Melanie's consciousness, however, has not been completely eliminated; she and Wanderer carry out an internal conversation and debate with each other, eventually becoming friends.

Wanderer tells Seeker that Melanie was traveling with her brother, Jamie, and her boyfriend, Jared Howe, to find Melanie's uncle Jeb in the desert. Wanderer admits that Melanie is still present, so Seeker decides to be transferred into Melanie's body to get the information herself. With Melanie’s guidance, Wanderer escapes to the desert, where Jeb finds her and takes her to a series of caves inside a mountain where the humans (including Jared and Jamie) are hiding.

Wanderer's presence is met with hostility by all but Jeb and Jamie. Melanie instructs Wanderer not to tell anyone she is still alive, since it would provoke them, though she later allows her to tell Jamie. Wanderer begins interacting with the humans and slowly starts gaining their trust, bonding with Ian O'Shea.

Seeker leads a search party into the desert. They intercept one of the shelter's supply teams, and in the ensuing chase, Aaron and Brandt commit suicide to avoid capture. During the chase, Seeker accidentally kills another Soul, leading her superiors to call off the search.

Jared and Kyle move to kill Wanderer, causing Jamie to reveal that Melanie's consciousness is alive. Jeb and Ian accept this, but Jared refuses to believe it until he strategically kisses Wanderer, provoking Melanie to take back control and slap him, proving to Jared that she is still alive. Kyle tries to kill Wanderer but endangers his own life, and Wanderer ends up saving him. Ian believes that Kyle attacked Wanderer and tells her he has feelings for her. Wanderer admits that Melanie's body is compelled to love Jared, but she has feelings of her own, and the two kiss.

Wanderer enters the community's medical facility and is shocked to discover that Doc has been experimenting with ways to remove Souls and allow the host's mind to regain control, resulting in the deaths of many Souls and hosts. After isolating herself for several days, Wanderer learns that Jamie is critically ill with an infection in his leg. She infiltrates a Soul medical facility to steal some alien medicine, saving Jamie's life.

Seeker has continued looking for Wanderer on her own, but Jeb captures her. Wanderer offers to show Doc how to properly remove Souls, on the condition that he later remove her from Melanie's body. Doc uses the technique to remove Seeker from her host, with both host and Soul surviving. Wanderer takes Seeker’s tiny alien form to a Soul space-travel site, where she sends it so far from Earth that it can not return for numerous generations.

Tired of the many lives she’s lived and finding it too painful to leave everyone behind, Wanderer makes Doc promise to let her die when she is removed and not tell anyone. The others in the shelter intervene with Doc, who inserts Wanderer into a brain-dead human body, after the Soul inside her was removed. Now with a body of her own, Wanderer is able to be with Ian, while Melanie reunites with Jared.

A few months later, while on a supply run, Wanderer, Melanie, Ian and Jared are captured. They discover that their captors are humans, who reveal that there are several other human groups as well. They also learn that a Soul with this group has sided with the human resistance, as Wanderer has, and they may not be the last Souls to do so.

####The Hunger Games: The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes####
####The Hunters (2013 film)####
####Ice Age: Collision Course####

Peaches is engaged to a good-natured mammoth named Julian, to Manny's disapproval, as he finds Julian annoying and incapable of protecting Peaches. The concern escalates when Peaches reveals her wish to travel and explore the world as their honeymoon, which both Manny and Ellie disagree with. Diego and Shira want to have children, but fear that they wouldn't make any friends, as the other kids are afraid of saber-tooth tigers. Sid is about to propose marriage to his girlfriend, Francine, but is dumped by her and laments his solitude. During Manny and Ellie's wedding anniversary party, asteroids (caused by Scrat, who was propelled into outer space in an abandoned spaceship during an attempt to bury his acorn) strike the place and the herd barely escape. Meanwhile, at the underground lost world, Buck returns a "Chasmosaurus" egg back to its mother after it was stolen by a trio of flying dromaeosaurs named Gavin, Gertie and Roger. Buck discovers an ancient stone pillar and takes it to the surface, where he reunites with the herd.

Buck explains that according to the pillar, the asteroids had caused two extinctions in the past, and with the next one incoming, he believes that the only place they could find a clue to stop it is on the site of the impact of the previous ones; a nearby volcano, as according to its engravings, they always fall in the same place. However, the dromaeosaurs overhear their conversation, and Gavin and Gertie decide to stop them, believing that they could easily avoid the impact due to their natural ability to fly, thus not only getting their revenge on Buck, but also eradicating Earth's population and securing domination over the planet for the dinosaurs. Roger is reluctant, but Gavin and Gertie strong-arm him into cooperating.

During the herd's journey to the crash site, Buck discovers that the asteroids have electro-magnetic properties, theorizing that if a huge quantity of smaller asteroids should be gathered and launched into orbit, they could attract the main asteroid away from Earth. After facing several obstacles and the interference of the dromaeosaurs, the herd arrives at "Geotopia", a community of immortal animals formed inside one of the asteroids that have fallen long ago, where Sid meets Brooke, a ground sloth who instantly falls in love with him.

However, Shangri Llama, the leader of Geotopia, refuses to cooperate with Buck's plan to use the city's crystals in order to stop the asteroid, as they are the key to the residents' longevity. Sid inadvertently destroys the entire city when he attempts to remove one of the crystals to present Brooke with, immediately aging them to their real ages and revealing their true crone-like appearances, much to Shangri Llama's anger.

After Brooke convinces the other Geotopians that stopping the asteroid is more important than their lost youth, they and the herd fill up a volcano with the gigantic ball made up of all the crystals so that the pressure launches them into space to draw the asteroid away. The dromaeosaurs attempt to intervene, but they soon discover that they will not survive the asteroid's impact. Buck convinces them to help and that the dinosaurs can live with them in harmony. After a small meteor hits Gavin, they accidentally drop the last and biggest crystal, but Manny and Julian work together to throw it back into the volcano, causing Julian to earn Manny's approval. The volcano then erupts, sending the magnetic crystal shards to the sky, which diverts the oncoming asteroid plummeting back to space.

The herd then departs for home, including Sid, who parts ways with Brooke, but just after they leave, a small crystal shard falls inside a hot spring, giving it rejuvenating properties and making the Geotopians and Granny, who stayed behind with them, regain their youth. After the herd returns, Manny and Ellie reconcile with Peaches, encouraging her to chase her dreams. Peaches and Julian marry afterwards while Diego and Shira become heroes to the kids, and a rejuvenated Brooke appears during the wedding ceremony to reunite with Sid, much to his delight.

####The Incredible Petrified World####
Professor Millard Wyman (John Carradine) sends a crew of two men, Paul Whitmore (Allen Windsor) and Craig Randall (Robert Clarke), and two women Lauri Talbott (Sheila Noonan) and Dale Marshall (Phyllis Coates), down to ocean depths never before explored.  But, there's a technical problem during the launch. The diving bell breaks free of the cable connecting them to the surface and loses contact with the surface. The mission is believed lost.

But the crew, having survived their ordeal, don their scuba gear and leave the bell.  Instead of reaching the surface, they surface in a cavern.  The crew members explore the cave and find a skeleton, then a disheveled old sailor named Matheny (George Skaff) who tells them that he and another sailor suffered a shipwreck fourteen years prior and has been living in these caves ever since. He claims there is no way out and a volcano provides air from the surface.

Meanwhile, up on the surface Prof. Wyman's younger brother builds another bell and launches it in an attempted rescue mission.  However, with the old man in the cave starting to leer lecherously at the women, and the volcano growing more unstable, the second mission may not find them in time. The old man reveals to the women that he murdered the other sailor years ago, increasing their apprehension. Just as he is about to assault one of the girls, the volcano erupts and the old man is crushed under falling rocks. The stranded crew of the diving bell make their way up toward the surface and are rescued.

####Independence Day (1996 film)####

On July 2, 1996, an enormous extraterrestrial mothership enters Earth's orbit and deploys multiple saucers, each convert|15|mi|km|abbr=off|sp=us wide, over major cities worldwide, including New York City, Los Angeles and Washington, D.C..

U.S. Marine Captain Steven Hiller and his unit, the Black Knights fighter squadron out of MCAS El Toro, are called back from fourth of July liberty to defend Los Angeles; his girlfriend, Jasmine Dubrow, decides to flee the city with her son, Dylan. Retired combat pilot Russell Casse, now an alcoholic single stepfather and crop duster, sees this as vindication of the alien abduction he has been claiming for years. In New York City, David Levinson, an MIT-trained satellite technician, decodes a signal embedded within global satellite transmissions, realizing it is the aliens' countdown for a coordinated attack. With help from his ex-wife, White House Communications Director Constance Spano, David and his father Julius reach the Oval Office and alert President Thomas Whitmore.

Whitmore orders evacuations of the targeted cities in the US, but it is too late. Each saucer fires a destructive beam, incinerating all of the targeted cities, killing millions. Whitmore, the Levinsons and a few others escape aboard Air Force One while Jasmine, Dylan, and their dog Boomer take shelter in a tunnel's inspection alcove, emerging once the destruction is over.

On July 3, counterattacks against the invaders are thwarted by the alien warships' force fields. Each saucer launches a swarm of shielded fighters which decimate the human fighter squadrons and military bases including Captain Hiller's. Hiller lures an enemy fighter into the Grand Canyon before ejecting from his plane, blinding the fighter using his parachute and causing the alien to crash in the Mojave Desert. He subdues the downed alien and flags down a convoy of refugees, transporting the alien to Area 51, where Whitmore's group has landed.

Defense Secretary Albert Nimzicki reveals that a government faction has been involved in a UFO conspiracy since 1947 when one of the invaders' fighters crashed in Roswell. Area 51 houses the now-refurbished ship and three alien corpses recovered from the crash. As chief scientist Dr. Brackish Okun examines the alien captured by Steven, it awakens, telepathically invades Okun's mind and launches a psychic attack against Whitmore before it is killed by Secret Service agents and military personnel. Whitmore reveals what he learned when they linked: the invaders plan to annihilate Earth's inhabitants and steal their natural resources, as they have done to other planets before them.

Whitmore reluctantly authorizes a trial nuclear attack against a saucer above Houston, but the ship survives. Jasmine and Dylan commandeer a highway maintenance truck and rescue a handful of survivors, including a critically injured First Lady Marilyn Whitmore. Though Hiller rescued them  and taken to Area 51, Marilyn dies shortly after reuniting with her family.

On July 4, taking inspiration from his father, David writes a computer virus from his laptop to disrupt the aliens' shields' operating system and devises a plan to upload it into the mothership from the refurbished alien fighter, which Hiller volunteers to pilot. The U.S. military contacts surviving airborne squadrons around the world through Morse code to organize a united counter-offensive. Lacking pilots, Whitmore and General William Grey enlist volunteers with flight experience, including Russell Casse, from the refugee camp at the base to fly the remaining jets at Area 51; Whitmore leads an attack on a saucer bearing down on the base, overseen by Grey.

Hiller marries Jasmine with David and Constance in attendance before Hiller and David leave on the mission. Entering the mothership, they upload the virus and deploy a nuclear missile, destroying it and the aliens' massing invasion forces. With the aliens' shields deactivated, Whitmore's squadron engages the enemy fighters, but exhausts their ammunition before they can destroy the saucer. As the saucer prepares to fire on the base, Russell's last missile is unable to fire; he sacrifices himself by crashing into the saucer's weapon, destroying the warship. The US Military notified the resistances worldwide of the alien ships' critical weakness and destroyed the others. As humanity rejoices, Hiller and Levinson reunite with their families.

####Independence Day: Resurgence####

Twenty years after the War of 1996,efn|As depicted in "Independence Day" (1996) the United Nations has founded the Earth Space Defense (ESD), a global defense advanced research program that reverse-engineers alien technology and serves as Earth's alert system against extraterrestrial threats. Civilization has been restored and relative peace among nations exists following the human race's victory over the aliens' attacks, and major cities around the world including Washington D.C. were rebuilt and modernized with amalgamated technologies. After establishing Area 51 as its headquarters, the ESD set up bases on the Moon, Mars, and Rhea, a moon of Saturn, and orbital defense satellites above Earth, as fortifications against future invasions.

ESD Director David Levinson meets with warlord Dikembe Umbutu and Dr. Catherine Marceaux in the African state Republique Nationale d'Umbutu. They travel to a landed alien saucer and discover that the aliens were drilling before then sending a distress signal to their homeworld prior to their defeat. It is revealed that people such as former U.S. President Thomas Whitmore, Dr. Brackish Okun, and Umbutu are telepathically linked to the aliens' collective consciousness, following personal encounters, and have visions of an unidentified spherical object.

An unidentified spherical ship emerges from a wormhole near Earth's Moon. Despite objections from Levinson, it is destroyed on the orders of the Security Council. Defying orders, American pilots Jake Morrison and Charlie Miller then collect Levinson, Marceaux, Umbutu, and U.S. federal controller Floyd Rosenberg on a space tug. They head for the wreckage in the Van de Graaff crater, where they recover a large container. An alien mothership, 3000 miles in diameter suddenly appears,<ref name="Space" /> responding to the distress call, and proceeds to destroy much of Earth's planetary defense systems before landing over the North Atlantic Ocean, where it starts to drill down toward Earth's molten core for fuel that will destroy the planet in the process. Narrowly escaping death, those on board the space tug avoided capture and return to Area 51.

Whitmore, Levinson, and U.S. General Joshua Adams' groups interrogate one of the aliens held in captivity at Area 51's prison facility from the war. They learn that the aliens exist in a hivemind and that one of their colossal Queens is commanding the invasion. Realizing that they had killed a supervising Queen above Earth during the first invasion, Levinson hypothesizes that if they kill this one, her forces will cease drilling and go dormant. An ESD aerial fleet, led by Captain Dylan Hiller, stages a counterattack, but they are ambushed within the mothership, leaving only a few survivors, including Dylan, Jake, Charlie, and fellow ESD lieutenant and Chinese pilot Rain Lao.

In Area 51, Okun opens the rescued container and releases a giant white sphere of virtual intelligence. The sphere reveals that her mission is to evacuate survivors to a planet of refugees from other worlds targeted by the aliens, whom she calls "Harvesters", and unite them in an attack on the Harvesters' planet. In the mothership, all surviving ESD pilots manage to escape by hijacking enemy craft; Dylan, Jake, Charlie, and Rain navigate two Harvester fighters to pursue the Queen's personal ship, which is heading to Area 51 to extract information from the sphere about the refugee planet.

Knowing that the Harvester Queen has become aware of the sphere's location, the ESD hides her in an isolation chamber and uses a decoy in Jake's space tug to lure the Harvester Queen's ship into a trap. Whitmore volunteers to pilot the transport ship on a suicide mission, leading the Queen's ship into a trap before detonating a bomb, thus destroying the enemy ship by sacrificing himself. However, the Harvester Queen survives by using an energy shield and a battle breaks out. During the engagement, when the Harvester Queen lowers her shield to fire her own weapon, a critical hit by Whitmore's daughter Patricia deactivates her shield. This allows Dylan's party, which arrives just in time, to kill her before she can take the sphere.

With the Queen gone, all the remaining alien fighters are rendered inactive while the mothership stops drilling and retreats to space. Okun reveals that the sphere has asked humanity to lead her resistance and has offered them new technology in preparation for a potential counterattack on the Harvesters' homeworld.

####The Invisible Boy####
In 1957, ten-year-old Timmie Merrinoe (Richard Eyer) only wants a playmate. After a peculiar encounter with a supercomputer operated by his father's research lab, he is mysteriously invested with superior intelligence, and reassembles a robot that his father and other scientists had been ready to discard as irreparable junk. (It is explained that a vanished scientist claimed to have developed a time machine and retrieved the robot from the future—a photograph on the wall depicts the return to Earth of the space cruiser from "Forbidden Planet," and the arrival of "Robby the Robot.")  No one pays much attention to the robot after Timmie gets it operating again, until Timmie's mother becomes angry when her son is taken aloft by a huge powered kite that Robby has built at Timmie's urging (once Timmie, prompted by the supercomputer, has disabled Robby's programming to never endanger a human).

When Timmie expresses a wish to be able to play without being observed by his parents, Robby, with the aid of the supercomputer, makes him invisible. At first Timmie uses his invisibility to play simple pranks on his parents and others, but the mood soon changes when it becomes clear that the supercomputer is independent, ingenious, and evil. The supercomputer had manipulated Timmie into altering Robby's programming and, over many years, manipulated its creators into augmenting its intelligence. It can control Robby electronically, and later uses hypnosis and electronic implants to control human beings, along with intending to take over the world using a military weapons satellite. (It later declares its intent to destroy all life on Earth and then conquer the entire galaxy and exterminate any life that it contains, even bacteria.)  The supercomputer takes Timmie captive aboard the rocket; the army tries to stop Robby, but all of their artillery and weapons have no effect on him. Robby boards the ship, which promptly takes off. The supercomputer commands him to kill Timmie by slow surgical torture to coerce his parents. But Robby frees Timmie rather than listen to the supercomputer. Dr. Merrinoe tells Timmie and Robby to remain on board the ship as it has enough supplies for him to last a year. Instead, Timmie and Robby return to Earth.

Timmie and Dr. Merrinoe return to the lab to shut down the supercomputer, but it stops them. Robby then shows up and turns against the supercomputer, destroying its power source. Everything is back to normal we find the Merrinoes having a peaceful evening, Dr. Merrinoe is about to spank Timmie as punishment for ignoring him. He is however stopped by Robby (whose protective programming has been restored), and the film ends with a shot of the Merrinoes and Robby all having a peaceful evening together.

####Iron Man (2008 film)####
Tony Stark, who has inherited the defense contractor Stark Industries from his late father Howard Stark, is in war-torn Afghanistan with his friend and military liaison, Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes, to demonstrate the new "Jericho" missile. After the demonstration, his convoy is ambushed and Stark is critically wounded by a missile used by the attackers—one of his company's own. He is captured and imprisoned in a cave by a terrorist group called the Ten Rings. Yinsen, a fellow captive and doctor, implants an electromagnet into Stark's chest to keep the shrapnel shards that wounded him from reaching his heart and killing him. Ten Rings leader Raza offers Stark freedom in exchange for building a Jericho missile for the group, but he and Yinsen believe that Raza will not keep his word.

Stark and Yinsen secretly build a small, powerful electric generator called an arc reactor to power Stark's electromagnet and a prototype suit of powered armor to aid in their escape. Although they keep the suit hidden almost to completion, the Ten Rings discover their hostages' intentions and attack the workshop. Yinsen sacrifices himself to divert them while the suit powers up. The armored Stark battles his way out of the cave to find the dying Yinsen, then burns the Ten Rings' weapons and flies away, crashing in the desert and destroying the suit. After being rescued by Rhodes, Stark returns home and announces that his company will cease manufacturing weapons. Obadiah Stane, his father's old partner and the company's manager, advises Stark that this may ruin Stark Industries and his father's legacy. In his home workshop, Stark builds a sleeker, more powerful version of his improvised armor suit as well as a more powerful arc reactor for it and his chest. Personal assistant Pepper Potts places the original reactor inside a small glass showcase. Though Stane requests details, a suspicious Stark decides to keep his work to himself.

At a charity event held by Stark Industries, reporter Christine Everhart informs Stark that his company's weapons were recently delivered to the Ten Rings and are being used to attack Yinsen's home village, Gulmira. Stark dons his new armor and flies to Afghanistan, where he saves the villagers. While flying home, Stark is attacked by two F-22 Raptors. He reveals his secret identity to Rhodes over the phone in an attempt to end the attack. Meanwhile, the Ten Rings gather the pieces of Stark's prototype suit and meet with Stane, who has been trafficking arms to the Ten Rings and has staged a coup to replace Stark as Stark Industries' CEO by hiring the Ten Rings to kill him. He subdues Raza and has the rest of the group killed. Stane has a massive new suit reverse-engineered from the wreckage. Seeking to track his company's illegal shipments, Stark sends Potts to hack into its database. She discovers that Stane hired the Ten Rings to kill Stark, but the group reneged when they realized they had a direct route to Stark's weapons. Potts meets with Agent Phil Coulson of S.H.I.E.L.D., an intelligence agency, to inform him of Stane's activities.

Stane's scientists cannot duplicate Stark's miniaturized arc reactor, so Stane ambushes Stark at his home and steals the one from his chest. Stark manages to replace it with his original reactor. Potts and several S.H.I.E.L.D. agents attempt to arrest Stane, but he dons his suit and attacks them. Stark fights Stane but is outmatched without his new reactor to run his suit at full capacity. The fight carries Stark and Stane to the top of the Stark Industries building, where Stark instructs Potts to overload the large arc reactor powering the building. This unleashes a massive electrical surge that causes Stane and his armor to fall into the exploding reactor, killing him. The next day, at a press conference, Stark publicly admits to being the superhero the press has dubbed "Iron Man".

In a post-credits scene, S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury visits Stark at home, telling him that Iron Man is not "the only superhero in the world", and explaining that he wants to discuss the "Avenger Initiative".

####Iron Man 2####
####The Island at the Top of the World####
In London in the year 1907, a British aristocrat, industrialist and millionaire named Sir Anthony Ross (Donald Sinden) hastily arranges an expedition to the Arctic to search for his lost son Donald. Donald has become lost on a whaling expedition to find the fabled island where whales go to die.

Sir Anthony employs the talents of a Scandinavian-American archaeologist Professor John Ivarsson (David Hartman) and Captain Brieux (Jacques Marin), a French inventor/aeronaut who pilots the expedition in a French dirigible named the "Hyperion", which Captain Brieux invented. Upon reaching the Arctic, they meet Oomiak (Mako Iwamatsu), a comically cowardly/brave Eskimo friend of Donald's, and trick him into helping them join in the search.

Ultimately, the expedition becomes (temporarily) separated from Captain Brieux, and discovers an uncharted island named Astragard, occupied by a lost civilization of Norsemen, cut off from the rest of the world for centuries. They capture Sir Anthony and Ivarsson, but Oomiak escapes. Shortly thereafter they find Donald, but are nearly put to death by the outrageous fanatical and pugnacious judgmental Godi (pronounced IPAc-en|ˈ|ɡ|əʊ|d|i respell|GOH|dee), a lawspeaker/authority figure.

The three men (Sir Anthony, Ivarsson and Donald) are saved from being burned alive by a brave and beautiful girl named Freyja, with whom Donald is deeply and mutually in love. They escape, and are rejoined by Oomiak and eventually find the Whale's Graveyard, but are attacked by killer whales. Here they are saved by the sudden reappearance of Captain Brieux, but they are still being pursued by the angry Godi and his rather unwilling warriors.

Finally, the Godi is killed by an explosion when he shoots a flaming arrow at the Hyperion; the Vikings feel sorry for the four adventurers for their prejudice-driven hatred led by the Godi. They believe his bad behavior and aggression towards the newcomers have angered the Norse gods. To appease the gods, they will not let the expedition return to their world unless one of them remains behind as a hostage, to prevent them from divulging the existence of Astragard to the outside world.

Ivarsson willingly volunteers to stay, as this represents a chance to relive history. Ivarsson also points out that if someday mankind is ever foolish enough to destroy itself, places like Astragard may become humanity's final refuge.

Sir Anthony, Donald, Freyja, Captain Brieux and Oomiak, are allowed to depart in peace, promising not to tell the outside world about Astragard. As Ivarsson heads back to Astragard, he turns to look back just in time to see his four friends move further and further away until they vanish into the Arctic mist.

####The Island of Dr. Moreau (1977 film)####
Ship's engineer Andrew Braddock (Michael York) and two other men are floating in a lifeboat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean following the wreck of the ship "Lady Vain". One dies at sea. After seventeen days at sea, Braddock and the other man land on an island, where the other man accompanying Braddock is promptly killed by animals. Braddock is nursed back to health in the compound governed by the mysterious scientist "Dr. Moreau" (Burt Lancaster). Besides Moreau, the inhabitants of the compound include Moreau's associate, Montgomery (Nigel Davenport), a mercenary; Moreau's mute, misshapen servant, M'Ling (Nick Cravat); and a ravishing young woman named Maria (Barbara Carrera). Moreau warns Braddock not to leave the compound at night.

Moreau welcomes Braddock as an honored guest and willingly shares his fine library, but there are some strange goings-on. One day, Braddock witnesses Moreau and Montgomery manhandling a chained creature who is clearly not quite human, and the island is home to more than just this one. The Sayer of the Law (Richard Basehart) recites the laws Moreau passed on to them. Moreau explains that they are, in fact, the hybrid products of his experiments upon various species of wild animal. Braddock is both shocked and curious. Moreau explains that he is injecting the animals with a serum containing human genetic material. At times, the human/animal hybrids still have their animal instincts and do not quite behave like a human. This sometimes enrages Moreau, who is left feeling that his experiments have not worked successfully. That night as Braddock is reeling from learning the truth, Maria goes to his room where they have sex. It is implied that this is intended by Moreau.

The following day, Braddock takes a rifle and leaves the compound, determined to see exactly how the hybrid creatures live. He enters a cave and finds several of them (all male). Just as he is surrounded by them and about to use the rifle to defend himself, Moreau appears and restores order. The Sayer of the Law is the only one of Moreau's experimental beasts who can speak. Moreau calls on him to utter the three laws (no going around on all fours, no eating of human flesh, and no taking of other life) aloud to the other creatures. This reminds them that they must not attack Braddock.

After the Bull-Man (Bob Ozman) kills a tiger, Moreau intends to take it to the "house of pain", his laboratory, as punishment. The Bull-Man panics and runs. Braddock finds it in the jungle, badly injured, where it begs him to kill it rather than return it to the lab. Braddock shoots it. This has the effect of angering the man-beasts as Braddock has broken the law of killing.

Convinced that Moreau is insane, Braddock prepares to leave the island with Maria. Moreau stops them and straps Braddock to the table in his lab. He then injects him with another serum so that he can hear Braddock describe the experience of becoming animalistic. Caged, Braddock struggles to maintain his humanity. When Montgomery objects to this treatment and threatens Moreau's life, Moreau shoots him.

Outside the compound, the angry man-beasts turn on Moreau because by killing Montgomery, he has broken the very law he expected them to follow. Moreau is mortally wounded at the compound's gate while trying to whip his attackers into submission. The man-beasts, now overpowered by their primitive instincts, go on a rampage to try and break into the compound and destroy the house of pain as the Sayer of the Law states "There is no law".efn|In the 1932 film "Island of Lost Souls," of which this was a remake, when Dr. Moreau (Charles Laughton in that film) demanded "What is the LAW???" at the time of the rampage, the Sayer of the Law retorted, ""'"Law no more!"""'

Braddock (still struggling to remain human), Maria, M'Ling, and the still-coherent and benign beastfolk servant women stave them off. Braddock resists killing Moreau, who dies of his injuries. Braddock uses the corpse as a diversion so they can escape through the compound. Eventually, the man-beasts break in and the compound is burned. In the chaos, the wild animals which Moreau kept for his experiments are turned loose and a battle ensues between them and the hybrids. Most of the man-beasts are killed by the animals or consumed by the fire, the Sayer of the Law's throat torn out by a tiger, the Bear-Man tackled off a roof by a black panther, and the Lion-Man is mauled by a normal lion. During the final escape, M'Ling risks his life to save his companions from a lion and both fall into a pit trap.

Braddock and Maria manage to float away in the lifeboat that Braddock arrived in, but are followed by the Hyena-Man (Fumio Demura) who is one of the last man-beasts. After a battle with each other, Braddock kills the Hyena-Man with a broken oar. Sometime later, they see a passing ship, and the serum has worn off, returning Braddock to his full human state as Maria looks on with changed, feline eyes.

####The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996 film)####
United Nations negotiator Edward Douglas survives a plane crash in the Java Sea and is rescued by a passing boat. Aboard, Dr Montgomery tends to him and, after telling him the boat has no radio, he promises Douglas the captain will take him to Timor. However, when they arrive at Montgomery's destination, referred to as "Moreau's Island", he instead advises Douglas to disembark so he can use the radio on the island.

Montgomery unloads a shipment of rabbits at a pen where he kills one for Douglas' meal. They go to the Main House, where Douglas is warned not to wander. He meets a daughter of Dr. Moreau's called Aissa, but Montgomery turns him away from her and leads him to his room. On the way, they discuss how Moreau vanished after becoming obsessed with his animal research. Montgomery locks Douglas in his room, but he escapes that night. He finds a laboratory where he witnesses the birth of a mutant baby, belonging to and delivered by human-animal hybrids.

He is noticed, escapes, and runs into Aissa who leads him to the village of the mutants. They find the partially eaten carcass of a rabbit near the leopard hybrid called Lo-Mai. At the village, they find the Sayer of the Law whose Law preaches "being human" in terms of restraint and discipline. Dr. Moreau, referred to as "the Father" by the mutants, appears. He inflicts pain on the villagers by using a remote control to activate an implant under the creatures' skin as a form of subjugation. Moreau forces the village to release Douglas and demands Montgomery give Douglas his handgun. Moreau then calmly discusses the situation with Douglas.

Douglas, Montgomery and Moreau gather and he introduces his hybrid "children". He explains his creations: he introduced human DNA into animals in search of a higher being, incapable of harm. The existing Beast Folk are imperfect, but Moreau claims to be very close to a solution. Moreau's son Azazello comes in with the rabbit, to the disgust of the pacifistic Moreau who forbids meat-eating. When he learns of the eaten rabbit, he promises that there will be a trial the next day. Douglas tries to escape by boat, but it is overrun with humanoid rats.

At the trial, Azazello unexpectedly shoots Lo-Mai. His body is burned and a mutant called Hyena-Swine comes, notices the pain implant among his remains, then removes his own. Montgomery reveals to Douglas that in addition to the pain, the animals are controlled through regular drugging to prevent them from "retrogressing". Hyena-Swine reveals the removed implant and so Montgomery sets the other beasts after him. Meanwhile, Douglas tries to contact the outside world, but Montgomery sabotages the radio and Aissa reveals to Moreau that she is regressing as it shows her with cat-themed eyes.

Hyena-Swine and his trackers (now on his side and also free of implants) break into the House and confront Moreau. Angry over their hybrid nature and no longer under his control, they reject humanity and the Law when they kill Moreau. His children grieve, except for Azazello, who steals Montgomery's handgun and goes to join Hyena-Swine's faction. Aissa informs Douglas that he can stop her regression with a serum from the lab. However, it turns out Montgomery has gone insane and destroyed it. Douglas also finds samples and a file with his name on them and finds out that Moreau was planning to use his DNA to stop Aissa's regression permanently, completing his experiments. Meanwhile, Azazello leads the mutants to the armory.

The mutants have now taken over the island. Azazello shoots a drunken Montgomery dead at the village and Hyena-Swine's faction rampages around the island. Azazello hangs Aissa before being executed by Hyena-Swine, having outlived his usefulness; but Douglas manages to survive by telling Hyena-Swine to impose his leadership and be "God Number One" among the others of his faction, especially those who helped him kill Moreau, causing Hyena-Swine to kill his supporters. While he's distracted, M'Ling, another one of Moreau's sons, triggers an explosion that causes Hyena-Swine to lose his gun and allows Douglas to escape. Hyena-Swine, finding himself outnumbered and defenseless, retreats into the burning building where he burns alive.

The Sayer of the Law, Majai, and Assassimon see off Douglas as he leaves on a raft. The Sayer of the Law tells Douglas that the hybrids are wanting to return to their natural state of being and believes it is better, so as to end their creator's work. In closing narration, Douglas reflects on the comparable savagery that can emerge in humans and claims that he leaves the island "in fear".

####John Carter (film)####


In 1881, Edgar Rice Burroughs attends the funeral of his uncle, John Carter, a former American Civil War Confederate Army captain who died suddenly. Per Carter's instructions, the body is put in a tomb that can be unlocked only from the inside. His attorney gives Carter's personal journal for Burroughs to read.

In a flashback to 1868 in the Arizona Territory, Union Colonel Powell arrests Carter with hopes that Carter will help in fighting local Apache. Carter escapes his holding cell, but fails to get far with U.S. cavalry soldiers in close pursuit. After a run-in with a band of Apaches, Carter and a wounded Powell are chased until they hide in a cave that turns out to be filled with gold. A Thern appears in the cave at that moment and, surprised by the two men, attacks them with a knife; Carter kills him but accidentally activates the Thern's powerful medallion and is unwittingly transported to a ruined and dying planet, Barsoom, known to Carter as Mars. Because of his different bone density and the planet's low gravity, Carter is able to jump high and perform feats of incredible strength. He is captured by the Green Martian Tharks and their Jeddak, Tars Tarkas.

Elsewhere on Barsoom, the Red Martian cities of Helium and Zodanga have been at war for a thousand years. Sab Than, Jeddak of Zodanga, armed with a special weapon obtained from the Thern leader Matai Shang, proposes a cease-fire and an end to the war by marrying the Princess of Helium, Dejah Thoris. The Princess escapes and is rescued by Carter.

Carter, Dejah, and Tarkas's daughter, Sola, reach a spot in a sacred river to find a way for Carter to get back to Earth. They discover that the medallions are powered by a "ninth ray" that is also the source of Sab Than's weapon. They are then attacked by a vicious race called the Warhoon under the direction of Shang. Carter and Dejah are taken back to Zodanga. A demoralized Dejah grudgingly agrees to marry Sab Than and gives Carter instructions on how to use the medallion to return to Earth. Carter decides to stay and is captured by Shang, who explains to him the purpose of Therns and how they manipulate the civilizations of different worlds to their doom, feeding off the planet's resources in the process, and intend to do the same thing with Barsoom by choosing Sab Than to rule the planet. Carter goes back to the Tharks with Sola to request their help. There they discover Tarkas has been overthrown by a ruthless brute, Tal Hajus. Carter and an injured Tarkas battle with two enormous Great White-Apes in an arena before Carter kills Hajus, thereby becoming the leader of the Tharks.

The Thark army charges on Helium and defeats the Zodangan army, while Sab Than is killed and Shang is forced to escape. Carter becomes prince of Helium by marrying Dejah. On their first night, Carter decides to stay forever on Mars and throws away his medallion. Seizing this opportunity, Shang briefly reappears and gives Carter another challenge, sending him back to Earth. Carter embarks on a long quest to find one of their medallions on Earth; after several years he appears to die suddenly and asks for unusual funeral arrangements — consistent with his having found a medallion, since his return to Mars would leave his Earth body in a coma-like state, and makes Burroughs his protector.

Back in the present, Burroughs runs back to Carter's tomb and uses clues to open it. Just as he does so, a Thern appears and raises a weapon before Carter appears and shoots the Thern in the back. He reveals that he had never found another medallion; instead, he devised a scheme to lure a Thern from hiding, thus winning Shang's challenge. Carter then uses the dead Thern's medallion to return to Barsoom.

####Journey to the Center of the Earth (1959 film)####
In 1880 Edinburgh, Professor Sir Oliver Lindenbrook, a geologist at the University of Edinburgh, is given a piece of volcanic rock by his admiring student, Alec McEwan, who is in love with Lindenbrook's niece Jenny. Finding the rock unusually heavy, Lindenbrook discovers a plumb bob inside bearing a cryptic inscription. Lindenbrook and Alec discover that it was left by a scientist named Arne Saknussemm, who, almost 300 years earlier, had found a passage to the center of the Earth by descending into the volcano Snæfellsjökull, in western Iceland. After translating the message, Lindenbrook immediately sets off with Alec to follow in the Icelandic pioneer's footsteps.

Professor Göteborg, upon receiving correspondence from Lindenbrook regarding the message, attempts to reach the Earth's center first. Lindenbrook and McEwan chase him to Iceland. There, Göteborg and his assistant kidnap and imprison them in a cellar. They are freed by local Hans Bjelke and his pet duck Gertrud. They later find Göteborg dead in his hotel room. Lindenbrook finds potassium cyanide crystals in Göteborg's goatee and concludes that he was murdered.

Göteborg's widow, Carla, who initially believed Lindenbrook was trying to capitalize on her deceased husband's work, learns the truth. She provides the equipment and supplies that her husband had accumulated, including much sought after Ruhmkorff lamps, but only on the condition that she accompanies them to protect her husband's reputation. Lindenbrook grudgingly agrees. Hans and Gertrud also join the new expedition.

On a specific date, they mark the sunrise's exact location on Snæfellsjökull and descend into the Earth from there, following markings left by Saknussemm. However, they are not alone. Göteborg's murderer, Count Saknussemm, believes that, as Saknussemm's descendant, only he has the right to be there. He and his manservant trail the group secretly. When Alec becomes separated from the others, he comes upon Saknussemm. When Alec refuses to take the place of Saknussemm's servant, who has died from overexertion, Saknussemm shoots Alec in the arm. Lindenbrook locates them through the gunshot's echoes and, after a quick trial for murder, sentences Saknussemm to death. No one is willing to execute him, however, so they reluctantly take him along.

The explorers eventually come upon a subterranean ocean. They construct a raft to cross it, but not before narrowly escaping a family of large "dimetrodons". Their raft begins circling in a large mid-ocean whirlpool. The professor deduces that this must be the center of the Earth: The magnetic forces of north and south meet there and are powerful enough to snatch away even the gold in their rings and tooth fillings. Now completely exhausted, they reach the opposite shore.

While the others are asleep, a hungry Saknussemm catches and eats Gertrud. When Hans finds out, he rushes at the count. Reeling back, Saknussemm inadvertently loosens a column of large stones and is buried beneath them, killing him. Right behind the collapse, the group comes upon the ruins of the sunken city of Atlantis. They also find the skeleton of Arne Saknussemm, whose right hand points toward a volcanic chimney. While a strong updraft suggests it leads directly to the surface, a huge rock partially blocks the way. Lindenbrook decides to blow up the obstruction with gunpowder left by Saknussemm, and they take shelter in a large sacrificial altar bowl. A giant lizard attacks, but is buried under molten lava released by the explosion. The bowl floats toward the passage and is finally driven upward at great speed by a lava plume. It finally reaches the surface, where the explorers are ejected, coming down away from the lava eruption.

When they return to Edinburgh, they are hailed as heroes. Lindenbrook turns down all the honors due to the loss of their documented evidence, but encourages the next generations to follow in their footsteps. Alec soon marries Jenny, and Lindenbrook and Carla kiss, a pledge of their coming wedding.

####Journey to the Center of the Earth (2008 direct-to-video film)####
####Jumper (2008 film)####
####Jungle Moon Men####
Adventurer Johnny Weissmuller (playing himself) is hired by Egyptian archaeologist Ellen Marsten (Jean Byron) to traverse the African jungle of Baku. They seek to rescue an acquaintance, Marro (Benjamin F. Chapman, Jr.), from his captors, pygmies known as the "Moon Men". The Moon Men are devoted to a "Moon Goddess" Oma (Helen Stanton), who is apparently an immortal whose only weakness is sunlight. Marro is chosen to be Oma's chief religious official.

After being joined by Marsten's friend Bob Prentice (Bill Henry), the team of Weissmuller, Marstern, and Prentice, set off for Baku. They find Marro and urge him to escape. However, he dies the moment he steps outside the parameters of the jungle. Interrogating a pygmy Damu (Billy Curtis), Weissmuller learns that Marro was fed a voodoo potion that would kill him once he tried to escape Baku. Just then, the Moon Men overpower the team and capture them. Prentice is selected to take over Marro's position, while Weissmuller and Marstern are brought to Oma's temple.

There, they are stopped by Santo (Myron Healey) and his right-hand man Max (Frank Sully). The evil duo command Weissmuller to lead them into the temple. They meet Oma and also find loads of precious stones in the building. Knowing that not everybody can leave Baku, Weissmuller sacrifices himself for the rest. He asks Prentice to contact the police as soon as he gets to the mainland. Santo pockets a large amount of the jewels and turns to flee. The Moon Men stop him, letting loose a pride of vicious lions. Santo and Max are gorily killed, while the rest manage to escape.

With not much time left, Weissmuller requests for Oma to reveal a fast exit route from Baku. She reluctantly tells him but crumbles into fine dust after being dragged by the explorer to the sunny open. After returning to civilisation, Prentice kvetches about the absence of any evidence to prove Baku's existence. However, Weissmuller's pet chimpanzee Kimba (Rory Mallinson) is shown to have taken a diamond pendant with him.

####Jupiter Ascending####
Earth and countless other planets were established by families of transhuman and alien royalty for the purpose of harvesting the resulting organisms to produce a youth serum for the elites on other planets. After the death of the matriarch of the House of Abrasax, the most powerful of the alien dynasties, her children—Balem, Kalique, and Titus—quarrel over the inheritance; Balem inherits an enormous refinery on Jupiter, and Titus spends his on a lavish spaceship.

Jupiter Jones narrates that her father, Maximilian, met her mother Aleksa in Saint Petersburg, Russia. After Maximilian is killed in a robbery, Aleksa names their daughter Jupiter, after his favorite planet, and they move to Chicago to live with Aleksa's family.

Years later, Jupiter makes a modest living as a housekeeper to her wealthy neighbors. Wanting to buy a telescope, Jupiter agrees to sell her egg cells and uses her friend Katharine's name as a pseudonym. At Katharine's house, Jupiter and Katharine are attacked by extraterrestrial "Keepers". Jupiter photographs them, but they erase both women's memories of the incident. Jupiter finds the strange photograph on her phone while waiting at an egg donation clinic, but cannot recall anything about it. During the procedure, the doctors and nurses are revealed to be Keepers sent to kill her, but she is saved by Caine Wise, a former soldier sent by Titus to bring her to him. As Caine and Jupiter flee, their spaceship is destroyed by a squad of Keepers. Caine fends off the attack, kills the Keepers, and hijacks one of their vehicles while protecting Jupiter. Caine realizes that Jupiter must be of great significance to Titus and Balem, who are revealed to have sent the Keepers to Earth to capture her. Caine takes Jupiter to the hideout of Stinger Apini, another former soldier living in exile on Earth. After learning she can control the bees in Stinger's residence, Jupiter discovers that she is galactic royalty.

Stinger agrees to help Jupiter, but she is captured by Balem's hunters, bribed by Kalique to bring Jupiter to her palace on a distant planet. There, Kalique explains that Jupiter is genetically identical to the dead matriarch, and therefore is the Earth's rightful owner. Supported by Captain Diomika Tsing of the intergalactic police force Aegis, Caine retrieves her from Kalique and takes her to the intergalactic capital planet Ores to claim her inheritance.

In another attempt to lure Jupiter to him, Balem sends Greeghan to kidnap her family. On the way back to Earth, Titus's henchmen capture Jupiter, and detain Caine as punishment for not bringing Jupiter to him. Titus reveals to Caine his plan to marry Jupiter, kill her, and claim Earth. Titus then throws Caine into the void of space and attempts to seduce Jupiter, declaring his intention to dismantle the youth serum trade, of which Earth is the next intended source. Caine survives being spaced and returns with Stinger to save Jupiter at the altar before she gets married. Jupiter asks to return home, but learns that her family has been taken hostage by Balem.

At his refinery inside the Great Red Spot, Balem demands Earth in exchange for Jupiter's family. Realizing that Balem cannot "harvest" Earth without her permission, Jupiter refuses. Caine infiltrates the refinery and damages its gravity hull, causing the refinery to begin collapsing. While the occupants evacuate the refinery, Tsing's ship moves in and rescues Jupiter's family.

Jupiter survives the collapsing structures, only to land at the feet of Balem, who tries to kill her. She fights him off before Balem falls to his death; Caine saves her as the refinery is in its final stages of collapse. Tsing opens a portal to Earth and prepares to evacuate, potentially leaving Caine and Jupiter behind. However, she is relieved to find that they have survived and crossed the portal, along with Tsing's ship.

Jupiter's family is returned home with no memory of their disappearance, while Jupiter secretly retains ownership of the Earth. Caine's rank in the Legion is restored, and he and Jupiter begin a relationship.

####Jurassic Park####
####Jurassic Park (film)####

Industrialist John Hammond has created Jurassic Park, a theme park of cloned dinosaurs, on the tropical Isla Nublar. After a dinosaur handler is killed by a "Velociraptor", the park's investors, represented by lawyer Donald Gennaro, demand a safety certification. Gennaro invites chaotician Ian Malcolm, while Hammond invites paleontologist Alan Grant and paleobotanist Ellie Sattler. Upon arrival, the group is shocked to see a live "Brachiosaurus" and a whole herd of other dinosaurs.

At the park's visitor center, the group learns that the cloning was accomplished by extracting dinosaur DNA from prehistoric mosquitoes preserved in amber. DNA from frogs, among other animals, was used to fill in gaps in the genome of the dinosaurs. To prevent breeding, all the dinosaurs were made female by direct chromosome manipulation. The group witnesses the hatching of a baby "Velociraptor" and visits the raptor enclosure. During lunch, the group debates the ethics of cloning and the creation of the park. Malcolm warns about the implications of genetic engineering and scoffs at the park's conceptualization, saying that it will inevitably break down.

Hammond's grandchildren, Lex and Tim, join for a tour of the park, while Hammond oversees from the control room. The tour does not go as planned, with most of the dinosaurs failing to appear and the group encountering a sick "Triceratops." The tour is cut short as a tropical storm approaches. Most of the park employees leave for the mainland on a boat, while the visitors return to their electric tour vehicles, except Sattler, who stays behind with the park's veterinarian, Dr. Harding, to study the sick "Triceratops".

Jurassic Park's disgruntled lead computer programmer, Dennis Nedry, has been bribed by Dodgson, a man working for Hammond's corporate rival, to steal fertilized dinosaur embryos. Nedry deactivates the park's security system to gain access to the embryo storage room, and stores the embryos inside a container disguised as a Barbosal shaving cream can. Nedry's sabotage also cuts power to the tour vehicles, stranding them just as they near the park's "Tyrannosaurus rex" paddock. Most of the park's electric fences have also been deactivated, allowing the "Tyrannosaurus" to escape and attack the group. After the "Tyrannosaurus" overturns a tour vehicle, it injures Malcolm and devours Gennaro, while Grant, Lex and Tim escape. On his way to deliver the embryos to the island's docks, Nedry gets lost in the rain, crashes his Jeep Wrangler, and is killed by a venom spitting "Dilophosaurus".

Sattler helps the game warden, Robert Muldoon, search for survivors; they only find an injured Malcolm, just before the "Tyrannosaurus" returns and chases them away. Grant, Tim and Lex take shelter in a treetop and encounter a "Brachiosaurus" herd. They later discover the broken shells of dinosaur eggs the following morning, and Grant concludes from this that the dinosaurs have been breeding, which occurred because of their amphibian DNA—animals like West African frogs can change their sex in a single sex environment, allowing the dinosaurs to do so as well.

Unable to decipher Nedry's code to reactivate the security system, Hammond and chief engineer Ray Arnold reboot the park's system. The group shuts down the park's grid and retreats to an emergency bunker while Arnold heads to a maintenance shed to complete the rebooting process. When Arnold fails to return, Sattler and Muldoon head to the shed. They discover the shutdown has deactivated the remaining fences and released the "Velociraptors". Muldoon distracts the raptors while Sattler goes to turn the power back on before being attacked by a raptor and discovering Arnold's severed arm. Meanwhile, Muldoon is caught off guard and killed by the other two raptors.

Grant, Tim, and Lex reach the visitor center. Grant heads out to look for Sattler, leaving Tim and Lex inside. Tim and Lex are pursued by the raptors in a kitchen, but they escape, managing to lock one in freezer, and join Grant and Sattler, who have returned. The group reaches the control room and Lex uses Nedry's computer to restore the park's power, allowing them to call Hammond, who calls for help. As they try to escape by the main entrance, they are cornered by the two remaining raptors, but they escape when the "Tyrannosaurus" appears and kills them. Hammond arrives in a jeep with Malcolm, and the group boards a helicopter to leave the island for good.

####Jurassic World####

Brothers Zach and Gray Mitchell visit Jurassic World, a dinosaur theme park on Isla Nublar, of which their aunt Claire Dearing is the operations manager. Claire assigns her assistant Zara as the boys' guide, but they evade her and explore on their own. Elsewhere on the island, Navy veteran and ethologist Owen Grady has been training a "Velociraptor" squad composed of Blue, Charlie, Delta, and Echo, and researching their intelligence. Based on the raptors' ability to follow commands, the head of InGen security Vic Hoskins believes that the animals can be weaponized, an idea Owen and his assistant Barry vehemently oppose.

Before its opening, Claire and park owner Simon Masrani inspect the park's newest attraction, the "Indominus rex", a transgenic dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu. Masrani tasks Owen with evaluating the enclosure's security. Owen warns Claire that the "Indominus" lacks social skills, making it dangerous and unpredictable. When the "Indominus" seemingly escapes her compound, Owen and two park workers enter the enclosure. The "Indominus", which can camouflage itself and mask its heat signature, suddenly appears. Owen survives, but she devours the other two men before escaping into the island's interior. Realizing that it is highly vicious and intelligent, Owen advises Masrani to have the specimen destroyed, but to protect his company's investment, Masrani dispatches a specialized unit to subdue it with non-lethal weaponry so that it can safely be returned to its paddock. After most of the unit is slaughtered, Claire orders the evacuation of the island's northern sector, while Masrani ponders Owen's warning and accosts Wu.

While exploring the park in a tour vehicle, Zach and Gray enter a restricted area. The "Indominus" arrives and destroys the vehicle, but the boys narrowly escape. They find the ruins of the original Jurassic Park visitor center, repair an old Jeep Wrangler, and drive back to the park resort. As Claire and Owen search for the boys, they barely escape the "Indominus" as well. Masrani and two troopers hunt down the "Indominus" by helicopter, but it breaks into the park's aviary. The Pteranodons and Dimorphodons, startled by the "Indominus", flee the aviary and fly into Masrani's helicopter, resulting it in crashing and killing its passengers, before converging onto the resort, and attacking everyone, including Zara who is then devoured by a "Mosasaurus". Zach and Gray find Owen and Claire at the resort as armed personnel shoot down the pterosaurs.

Assuming command, Hoskins orders the raptors to be used to track the "Indominus", whereupon Owen reluctantly complies and spearheads the assault with the raptors. Upon finding the "Indominus", the dinosaurs begin communicating among themselves. Owen realizes that the "Indominus" has "Velociraptor" DNA, and it usurps Owen's command of the raptors, becoming the pack's new alpha. Troops fire on the "Indominus", but it escapes. The raptors slaughter most of the soldiers, while Charlie is killed in the chaos. Hoskins evacuates Dr. Wu and the dinosaur embryos from the island to protect Dr. Wu's research. Owen, Claire, and the boys find Hoskins at the lab securing more embryos, but Delta breaks in and kills him. Owen re-establishes his bond with the three surviving raptors before the "Indominus" reappears. They attack the hybrid, but Delta and Echo are killed while Blue is knocked unconscious. Claire releases the Jurassic Park’s veteran "Tyrannosaurus rex" from its paddock and lures it into a battle with the "Indominus". The "Indominus" eventually gains the advantage over the "Tyrannosaurus" until Blue recovers and joins the battle. The duo overwhelms the "Indominus" until it gets cornered at the lagoon's edge, where it is dragged underwater by the resident "Mosasaurus".

The survivors are evacuated and the island is abandoned once again. Zach and Gray are reunited with their parents, while Owen and Claire decide to stay together.

####Jurassic Park III####

Twelve-year-old Eric Kirby and his mother's boyfriend, Ben Hildebrand, go parasailing near the restricted Isla Sorna.efn|The island became restricted to visitors following the events of "The Lost World: Jurassic Park" (1997). As the boat enters a thick fog, the crew is killed by an unknown attacker,efn|The film does not specify what killed the boat crew, although director Joe Johnston and cinematographer Shelly Johnson believed Pteranodons would be the likely culprit of the attack. prompting Ben to detach the line before the vessel crashes into rocks. Eric and Ben drift towards the island.

Eight weeks later, paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant struggles to secure funding for his "Velociraptor" research, and rebuffs the public's obsession with the events on Isla Nublar.efn|As depicted in "Jurassic Park" (1993) Grant discusses his research with a longtime colleague Ellie, hypothesizing that "Velociraptors" were intellectually and socially advanced beyond even primates. In Montana, his assistant, Billy Brennan, uses a three-dimensional printer to replicate a "Velociraptor" larynx.

Paul and Amanda Kirby, a seemingly wealthy couple, offer to fund Grant's research if he gives them an illegal aerial tour of Isla Sorna. Grant reluctantly agrees and flies there with Billy, two of the Kirbys' associates (Udesky and Cooper), and their pilot Nash. Grant learns that the Kirbys plan to land; he protests, but Cooper knocks him unconscious. Grant awakens to find that the group has landed, although they reboard the plane when a large predator approaches the runway, leaving Cooper behind. During takeoff, a "Spinosaurus" emerges and devours Cooper. The aircraft hits the dinosaur and crashes into the trees. The "Spinosaurus" attacks the plane and eats Nash, who has Paul's satellite phone. The survivors flee, only to encounter a "Tyrannosaurus". The two dinosaurs fight, and the "Spinosaurus" kills the "Tyrannosaurus" as the humans escape.

Grant furiously confronts the Kirbys, who reveal they are a middle-class divorced couple, searching for their son Eric and Amanda's boyfriend Ben. Government agencies declined to help, so they deceived Grant and brought him along, mistakenly believing him to have experience on Isla Sorna. The group begins searching for Eric and Ben, as they travel to the coast. They find Ben's corpse attached to the parasail, which Billy takes. They then stumble upon a "Velociraptor" nest, and Billy secretly places two eggs in his bag.

They soon discover an InGen compound, where a "Velociraptor" ambushes them, before vocalizing for its pack. The humans escape within a herd of "Corythosaurus" and "Parasaurolophus", causing a stampede; Grant and Udesky become separated from the others, who take refuge in the trees. The "Velociraptors" injure Udesky, attempting to lure Paul, Amanda, and Billy into rescuing him, although their trap is unsuccessful and they soon kill Udesky. Elsewhere, Grant observes the pack communicating and suspects that they are searching for something; as he tries to slip away, they ambush him. Eric disrupts the pack with canisters of tear gas and brings Grant to an overturned supply truck where he has been taking shelter. The following morning, Grant and Eric reunite with Billy and the Kirbys; the group narrowly escapes the "Spinosaurus".

Grant, suspicious of Billy, checks his bag and finds the "Velociraptor" eggs, which Billy reveals he planned to sell for funding. Grant decides to keep the eggs, hoping the "Velociraptors" may spare the group if the eggs are returned. The group enters an aviary, which they realize to be filled with "Pteranodons". A flock attacks the group and flies away with Eric. Billy rescues him using the parasail but is swarmed and seemingly killed. The group escapes the aviary but unintentionally leaves the cage unlocked. They board a small barge and make their way down a river. That night, they retrieve the ringing satellite phone from a pile of "Spinosaurus" feces, narrowly avoiding a "Ceratosaurus". Grant contacts Ellie and tells her where they are, but the "Spinosaurus" attacks the barge. Fuel from the boat leaks into the water, and Grant ignites it using a flare gun, forcing the "Spinosaurus" to flee.

The following day, the group hears a helicopter overhead and arrives at the coast, but they are ambushed by the "Velociraptors", who have come for the eggs. Grant uses the replica larynx to confuse the pack. Upon hearing distant helicopters, the raptors reclaim their eggs and disappear into the jungle. The U.S. Navy lands on the beach, summoned by Ellie, and rescue the survivors. On a helicopter, they discover that Billy has also been rescued, albeit in a seriously injured state. They watch the newly escaped "Pteranodons" fly alongside them as they leave the island.

####Jurassic World Dominion####
####Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom####

Shortly after the events of "Jurassic World" in 2015,efn|"Fallen Kingdom" states that the events of "Jurassic World" occurred in 2015. According to writer Colin Trevorrow, "Fallen Kingdom"'s opening scene takes place anywhere from a few weeks to six months after the events of "Jurassic World". Jurassic World: Camp Cretaceous confirms the time period is six months. a small mercenary team arrives on the abandoned Isla Nublar to collect DNA from the "Indominus rex" remains in the lagoon. After they collect a bone sample, the "Mosasaurus" devours their submersible. The "Tyrannosaurus" attacks their helicopter, but they manage to escape with the sample, also allowing the "Mosasaurus" to escape into the open ocean.

Three years later, a United States Senate committee debates whether Isla Nublar's dinosaurs should be saved from an impending volcanic eruption. Mathematician Dr. Ian Malcolm testifies that the dinosaurs should perish naturally to correct the wrongful cloning done by John Hammond. Meanwhile, Jurassic World's former operations manager, Claire Dearing, has established the Dinosaur Protection Group to save the animals. After the Senate rules against rescuing the animals, Hammond's former partner, Sir Benjamin Lockwood, summons Claire to his Northern California estate. Lockwood and his aide, Eli Mills, reveal a plan to relocate the dinosaurs to a new island sanctuary. Claire is needed to reactivate the park's tracking system to locate the animals, particularly Blue, the last surviving "Velociraptor". Claire recruits Owen Grady, former "Velociraptor" trainer, to help capture her.

On Isla Nublar, Claire and former park technician Franklin Webb reactivate the online tracking system. Owen, paleo-veterinarian Zia Rodriguez, and a mercenary team led by Ken Wheatley, track and find Blue. The encounter escalates, resulting in Blue being shot and Wheatley tranquilizing Owen. Wheatley then abandons Owen, Claire, and Franklin on the island while forcibly taking Zia hostage to treat Blue. The ship, loaded with captured dinosaurs, departs as the remaining dinosaurs are left behind to die in the eruption. Claire, Franklin, and Owen sneak aboard the ship and help Zia transfuse Blue with "Tyrannosaurus" blood to save her life.

Rather than being relocated to a new island, the captured dinosaurs are transported to the Lockwood estate, where Lockwood's orphaned granddaughter, Maisie, overhears Mills and auctioneer Mr. Eversoll secretly planning to sell the dinosaurs on the black market. They will also preview the "Indoraptor", a weaponized, transgenic dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu using "Indominus rex" and "Velociraptor" DNA. Wu needs Blue's DNA to create an enhanced "Indoraptor" that is obedient to commands, unaware that Blue's blood is no longer pure. After Maisie informs Lockwood about the auction, he confronts Mills, who murders him. Maisie is later revealed to have been cloned from Lockwood's deceased daughter and the reason why John Hammond ended their association.

The auctioned dinosaurs are being immediately shipped out. Franklin evades capture and frees Zia, but Owen and Claire have been apprehended. Owen incites a "Stygimoloch" into breaking open their cell. The two encounter Maisie, and they learn the "Indoraptor" is being sold despite Wu's protests that it is a prototype. Owen disrupts the auction by luring the "Stygimoloch" into the room. In the ensuing chaos, Wheatley tranquilizes the "Indoraptor" to extract a tooth as a trophy, but the hybrid, having merely feigned unconsciousness, kills Wheatley, Eversoll, and others as it escapes. It chases Owen, Claire, and Maisie throughout the mansion until Blue, released by Zia, confronts the "Indoraptor". Atop a high glass roof, both animals crash through it, killing the "Indoraptor" and leaving Blue unharmed.

When a hydrogen cyanide gas leak threatens the caged dinosaurs, Claire frees them, ignoring Owen's objections and Maisie opens the final gate allowing the remaining dinosaurs to go out into the open. As Mills attempts to leave with the "Indominus rex" bone, the "Tyrannosaurus" devours him and tramples the bone. Owen, Claire, Maisie, Zia, and Franklin escape, while Blue and the other released dinosaurs flee the estate grounds. In a new U.S. Senate hearing, Dr. Malcolm declares the beginning of a neo-Jurassic Age, where humans and dinosaurs must coexist. The closing scenes depict the freed dinosaurs roaming the wilderness and outer urban areas.

####Kaadu (1952 film)####
A great white hunter and an Indian princess trek into the Indian jungle to investigate a number of wild animal stampedes which have resulted in the deaths of many people. On their journey, they discover a herd of prehistoric woolly mammoths are responsible for the terror.

####Latitude Zero (film)####
Three men - Dr. Ken Tashiro, Dr. Jules Masson, and journalist Perry Lawton - are trapped in a bathysphere due to seismic activity. They are rescued by the crew of the supersubmarine "Alpha", captained by Craig McKenzie, who they learn is over 200 years old (and that the "Alpha" was launched in the early 19th century). McKenzie takes them to Latitude Zero to heal Dr. Masson's injuries. Along the way, they are attacked by a rival supersubmarine, the "Black Shark", captained by Kuroi, who works for a rival of McKenzie's, Dr. Malic. Using super-technology, McKenzie gives the "Black Shark" the slip.

The crew of the "Alpha" soon return to Latitude Zero, a super-advanced utopia hidden fifteen miles below sea level at the intersection of the Equator and the International Date Line, populated by people from all over the world reported missing in accidents at sea. It has existed since the 19th century, as none of its inhabitants age or die, and greed and political divisions plaguing the surface world are unknown here. It also surreptitiously assists mankind's technological and cultural advancement. Malic, however, wishes to destroy Latitude Zero using superweapons and artificially grafted monstrosities like giant rats and anthropomorphic bats. He kidnaps a Japanese physicist allied with McKenzie, Dr. Okada, and his daughter Tsuruko, and forces Okada to assist him in his schemes. Moreover, after a cruel experiment grafting the wings of an eagle to a lion, he removes Kuroi's brain and places it in the creature as punishment for her failures.

Upon receiving an emergency signal from Okada, McKenzie organizes a rescue expedition. Tashiro, Masson and Lawton, Latitude Zero physician Dr. Anne Barton, and Kōbo volunteer to help. Equipped with James Bond-style devices and rendered resistant to physical harm by a special bath, they infiltrate Malic's island base, Blood Rock, fight their way to the enemy control center, and rescue the Okadas. As the team escapes, Malic enters the" Black Shark" and fires an onboard laser at them, but Kuroi turns against Malic and attacks the laser. The weapon collapses the island's cliffs onto the submarine, destroying it and killing everyone aboard.

Of all the visitors to Latitude Zero, only Lawton wishes to return home. He is picked up by a US Navy vessel and discovers that all his knowledge of Latitude Zero's existence has disappeared. Just as he is about to resign himself to the idea that his adventure never occurred, the ship receives a message stating that a cache of diamonds has been deposited in his name in a safe deposit box in New York City, and the ship is ordered to change course to Latitude Zero.

####The Lawless Land####
####Life (2017 film)####


In the near future, an uncrewed space probe returns from Mars to Earth orbit with soil samples potentially containing evidence of extraterrestrial life. The probe is intercepted by the International Space Station. From its samples, exobiologist Hugh Derry revives a dormant cell that quickly grows into a multi-celled organism that US schoolchildren name "Calvin". Hugh realizes that Calvin's cells can change their specialization, acting as muscle, neuron, and photosensory cells all at once.

During an experiment, Calvin becomes hostile, wrapping itself around Hugh's hand and crushing it. Calvin then escapes its enclosure and devours a lab rat, growing in size. Engineer Rory Adams rescues Hugh, but Calvin grabs onto his leg, prompting physician David Jordan to lock Rory in the lab. After Rory unsuccessfully attempts to destroy Calvin with a flame-throwing incinerator, Calvin enters his mouth, devouring his internal organs and killing him. After several minutes, Calvin emerges from Rory's mouth, larger than before, and escapes the lab through a fire-control vent.

The crew attempts to inform Earth of the situation, but the station's communication system overheats, cutting off contact with Earth. ISS commander Ekaterina "Kat" Golovkina performs a spacewalk to find and fix the problem, which turns out to be Calvin. Calvin attacks Kat and ruptures her spacesuit's coolant system. As her suit fills with coolant, Kat makes her way to the airlock. She and the crew realize that Calvin will re-enter the station if they let her in, so she chooses to stay outside, and drowns in her spacesuit.

Calvin attempts to re-enter the station through its maneuvering thrusters. The crew fire the thrusters to blast it away, but they drain so much fuel that it causes the ISS to enter a decaying orbit, where it will burn up in Earth's atmosphere. Pilot Sho Murakami suggests using the ISS's remaining fuel to get back into a safe orbit even though it will allow Calvin to re-enter. The crew seal themselves in one side of the station and prepare to vent the atmosphere from the other side to render Calvin dormant. Hugh spots Calvin while the crew is working but chooses not to report the creature. At some point, Calvin latches on to his leg and begins feeding off him before the crew finishes sealing off the section where Calvin is supposed to be contained. The crew discovers Calvin feeding off of Hugh after he unexpectedly dies. Calvin attacks the crew, forcing them to flee. Sho seals himself inside a sleeping pod, while Calvin tries to break inside. David and Quarantine Officer Miranda North use Hugh's corpse as bait to lure Calvin away and trap it.

Having received a distress call prior to the damage to the ISS communication system, Earth sends a Soyuz spacecraft to push the station into deep space. This is a fail-safe to protect Earth, but Sho believes this to be a rescue and boards the Soyuz. He is followed by Calvin, who kills the Soyuz crew. A docking breach occurs, and Sho sacrifices himself in an unsuccessful attempt to trap Calvin in the Soyuz. The Soyuz detaches and crashes into the ISS, causing the ISS's orbit to decay again.

The remaining survivors, David and Miranda, speculate that Calvin could survive re-entry into Earth's atmosphere, so they plan to lure Calvin into one of the ISS' two escape pods. Once inside, David will manually pilot the pod containing Calvin into deep space, thereby isolating it and enabling Miranda to return to Earth in the other pod. David leads Calvin into his pod and launches into space as Miranda launches her pod, and the two pods go in different directions. As Miranda's pod flies in one direction, she records a black box message to warn Earth of Calvin's threat. Subsequently, one pod is hit by debris, while David is attacked by Calvin while trying to pilot. Eventually, one of the two pods lands in the sea and is found by Vietnamese fishermen, while the other pod flies away from Earth. What the Vietnamese fishermen find turns out to be David's pod. Meanwhile, Miranda's pod flies uncontrollably into deep space. On Earth, the fishermen open David's pod despite his warnings, as other boats arrive at the scene.

####Lightyear (film)####
####Logan (film)####

In 2029, no mutants have been born in 25 years, and an aging Logan suffers as his healing ability is failing. Working as a limousine driver in El Paso, Texas, he and mutant tracker Caliban take care of 97-year-old Charles Xavier, founder of the X-Men, in an abandoned smelting plant in northern Mexico. Xavier suffers from dementia that causes him to have destructive telepathic seizures, one of which injured 600 people and killed several X-Men the year prior.

Logan reluctantly agrees to escort Gabriela López, a former nurse for biotechnology corporation Alkali-Transigen, and a young girl named Laura to Eden, a supposed refuge near the American-Canadian border. After finding Gabriela dead, Logan is confronted by her killer Donald Pierce, who is Transigen's cyborg chief of security. Pierce is looking for Laura, who has stowed away in Logan's limo and has powers similar to his. She, Logan, and Xavier escape Pierce and his Reavers, but Caliban is captured. Pierce tortures Caliban into tracking Laura. Xavier and Logan watch a video on Gabriela's phone, revealing that Transigen created Laura and other children from mutant DNA to become weapons. The children proved challenging to control and were to be executed, but Gabriela and other nurses helped some escape. Xavier reveals to Logan that Laura was created from Logan's DNA and calls her Logan's daughter.

In Oklahoma City, Logan discovers that Eden appears in Laura's "X-Men" comic and tells her it is fictional. The Reavers arrive, but Xavier has a seizure that incapacitates everyone except Logan and Laura, who kill the attackers and inject Xavier with his medication. As they flee, Dr. Zander Rice, the head of Transigen, arrives to help Pierce.

Logan, Laura, and Xavier help farmer Will Munson and his family after a traffic incident, accepting an offer of dinner at their home, where Logan drives off enforcers from a corporate farm. Rice unleashes X-24, a mindless clone of Logan in his prime created as Transigen's ultimate weapon. X-24 murders Will's family and Xavier before capturing Laura. Caliban sets off grenades, killing himself and several Reavers but only injuring Pierce. Logan is outmatched by X-24, but Will pins X-24 with his truck before dying from his injuries. Logan and Laura escape with Xavier's body.

After burying Xavier, Logan passes out. Laura takes him to a doctor and persuades him to prove that the site in North Dakota is not Eden. There, they find Rictor and other Transigen children preparing to cross into Canada. Laura finds an adamantium bullet that Logan has kept since he escaped from the Weapon X facility, which he once considered using to commit suicide. Logan decides not to accompany them, to Laura's dismay.

When the Reavers ambush the children, Logan takes an overdose of a serum given to him by Rictor that temporarily enhances his healing abilities and boosts his strength. With Laura's help, he slaughters most of the Reavers before the serum wears off. As Pierce holds Rictor at gunpoint, Rice tells Logan, who killed Rice's father years ago at the Weapon X facility,efn|As depicted in "X-Men: Apocalypse" (2016). that no new mutants have been born due to genetically engineered crops created by Transigen and distributed through the world's food supply. Logan, having found a gun, shoots Rice dead and injures Pierce. X-24 fights Logan as the children combine their powers to kill Pierce and the remaining Reavers. Rictor uses his powers to flip a truck onto X-24, but he frees himself and impales Logan on a large tree branch. Laura loads Logan's revolver with the adamantium bullet and shoots X-24 in the head, killing him.

Near death, Logan tells Laura not to become the weapon that she was made to be, and after she tearfully acknowledges him as her father, Logan dies peacefully in Laura's arms. She and the children bury Logan, and before they depart, Laura tilts the cross on his grave marker to create an X, honoring him as the last of the X-Men.

####Logan's Run (film)####
In the year of the city 2274, the remnants of human civilization live in a sealed city contained beneath a cluster of geodesic domes, a utopia run by a computer that takes care of all aspects of life, including reproduction. The citizens live a hedonistic lifestyle but, to prevent overpopulation, everyone must undergo the rite of "Carrousel"<!--please do not change "Carrousel" to "Carousel"; it is misspelled on screen in the preamble as "Carrousel" and this article should reflect the spelling used there--> when they reach the age of 30. There, they are killed under the guise of being "renewed". To track this, each person is implanted at birth with a "life-clock" crystal in the palm of the left hand that changes color as they get older and begins blinking as they approach their "Last Day". Most residents accept this chance for rebirth, but those who do not and attempt to flee the city are known as "Runners". An elite team of policemen known as "Sandmen", outfitted in predominantly black uniforms, are assigned to pursue and terminate Runners as they try to escape.

Logan 5 and Francis 7 are both Sandmen. After terminating a Runner, to whose presence they were alerted during a Carrousel rite, Logan finds an ankh among his possessions. Later that evening, he meets Jessica 6, a young woman also wearing an ankh pendant. Logan takes the ankh to the computer, which tells him that it is a symbol for a secret group whose members help the Runners find "Sanctuary", a mythic place where they will be safe to live out the rest of their lives.
thu
Logan learns that the Sandmen have lost 1,056 Runners this way. The computer instructs Logan to find Sanctuary and destroy it, a mission which it code names "Procedure 033-03", which he must keep secret from the other Sandmen. Then, the computer changes the color of his life clock to flashing red, suddenly making him four years closer to Carrousel. Scared, he asks if the four years will be restored to him when his mission is completed but receives no response. In order to escape this, Logan is now forced to become a Runner. Logan meets Jessica and explains his intention to run. They meet with the underground group that leads them to the periphery of the city.

Logan learns that the ankh symbol is actually a key that unlocks an exit from the city. They come out into a frozen cave, with Francis following closely behind. In the cave, they meet Box, a robot designed to capture food for the city from the outside. Logan discovers, to his horror, that Box also captures escaped Runners and freezes them for food. Before Box can freeze Logan and Jessica, they escape, causing the cave to collapse on the robot.

Once outside, Logan and Jessica notice that their life clocks are no longer operational. They see the Sun for the first time and discover that the remains of human civilization have become a wilderness. They explore an old, seemingly abandoned city which was once Washington, D.C. In the ruins of the United States Senate chamber, they discover an elderly man living with many cats. His appearance is a shock to them, since neither has ever seen anyone over the age of thirty. The old man recounts what he remembers about what happened to humanity outside the city, and Logan realizes that Sanctuary has always been a myth.

However, Francis has followed them and he and Logan fight. Logan fatally wounds Francis; as he dies, Francis sees that Logan's life clock is now clear and assumes Logan has renewed. Logan and Jessica persuade the old man to return to the city with them as proof that life exists outside the domed city. Leaving the man outside, the two enter the city via an underwater tunnel and try to convince everyone that Carrousel is a lie and unnecessary. The two are captured by other Sandmen and taken to the computer, which interrogates Logan about Procedure 033-03 and asks if he completed his mission.

Logan insists, "There is no Sanctuary". What he had found was "old ruins, exposed", "an old man", and that the missing Runners were "all frozen”.
These answers are not accepted by the computer, even after scanning Logan's mind, and the computer overloads, causing the city's systems to fail violently and release the exterior seals. Logan, Jessica, and the other citizens flee the ruined city. Once outside, the citizens see the old man, the first human they have met who is older than thirty, proving that they can, indeed, live their lives much longer.

####The Lost World: Jurassic Park####

Four years after the events on Isla Nublar, a British family docks their yacht ashore at the nearby Isla Sorna, unaware that the island contains genetically engineered dinosaurs. Their daughter wanders off and is attacked by a group of "Compsognathus", but survives.

An ailing Dr. John Hammond invites mathematician Dr. Ian Malcolm to his residence to discuss the incident. Hammond's company InGen, which created the dinosaurs, is now headed by Hammond's nephew Peter Ludlow, who used the incident to take control of the company from Hammond. Besides Isla Nublar, Ian learns that InGen had another facility, "Site B", on Isla Sorna, where the company's dinosaurs were cloned. However, the island was abandoned during a hurricane, and the animals were released into the wild to fend for themselves. Ludlow wants to exploit the island's creatures to save InGen from bankruptcy. Hammond asks Ian to join a team who will document the dinosaurs in their natural habitat, to encourage a policy of non-interference. Ian's girlfriend, paleontologist Dr. Sarah Harding, was hired and is already on Isla Sorna. Upon hearing this, Ian reluctantly agrees to go to the island, but only to retrieve Sarah.

Ian travels there with Eddie Carr, an equipment specialist and engineer, and Nick Van Owen, a video documentarian and activist. They find Sarah, but she insists on staying to continue her research. Ian is shocked when he discovers that his daughter Kelly has stowed away with the team in a trailer, which serves as their mobile base. Ludlow and a mercenary team arrive on the island to capture dinosaurs, with help from big-game hunters Roland Tembo and Ajay Sidhu, Roland's second-in-command Dieter Stark, and paleontologist Dr. Robert Burke.

Malcolm's group realizes Ludlow intends to ship the captured specimens to San Diego, for an unfinished Jurassic Park attraction that he plans to revive after Hammond had abandoned the San Diego project in favor of the park on Isla Nublar. Nick and Sarah free the captured dinosaurs, and the animals wreak havoc on the InGen team's camp. On the way back to the trailer, Nick rescues an injured "Tyrannosaurus rex" infant that Roland used as bait to hunt its father. Nick and Sarah treat the infant's broken leg, but the "Tyrannosaurus" adults arrive, having tracked the infant's scent. They reclaim their infant, destroy the trailer, and devour Eddie during his attempt to rescue the group.

Ian, Sarah, Nick, and Kelly are rescued by Ludlow's team and are forced to work together after losing all their communications equipment. They decide to travel to an abandoned InGen base to call for help. During a break, Stark goes into the wilderness alone to relieve himself and is killed by a group of "Compsognathus". After the team sets up a camp for the night, they are ambushed by the "Tyrannosaurus" adults: Burke is devoured, and others flee into a field of long grass where a pack of "Velociraptors" ambush them, killing Ajay and most of the InGen personnel.

Ian, Sarah, Kelly, and Nick reach the InGen base, fight off "Velociraptors", and successfully radio for helicopter extraction. After being rescued, Nick reveals that he stole Roland's ammunition, to prevent him from killing his trophy. However, they learn Roland has sedated the male "Tyrannosaurus" with tranquilizers instead. As more InGen personnel arrive on the island to secure the male and infant, Roland declines Ludlow's job offer at the San Diego park, reflecting on Ajay's death and the morality of Ludlow's scheme.

In Port of San Diego, Ian and Sarah attempt to convince Ludlow to abandon his plans, but the ship carrying the male "Tyrannosaurus" suddenly crashes into the docks. The crew is found dead, and the "Tyrannosaurus" is accidentally released and begins rampaging through the city. Ian and Sarah locate the infant at the planned park and use it to lure the male back to the docks. Ludlow tries to retrieve the infant within the cargo hold but is injured by the adult, before being mauled to death by the infant. Sarah uses a tranquilizer gun to sedate the male before intervening government forces can use lethal force on it, while Ian seals the cargo hold doors.

In the aftermath, the dinosaurs are shipped back to Isla Sorna accompanied by a naval escort, while Ian, Sarah, and Kelly watch Hammond in a televised interview announce that the American and Costa Rican governments have declared the island a nature preserve.

####Manhunt of Mystery Island####
A breakthrough scientific device will revolutionize the world's energy usage if the kidnapped creator can be found. To rescue her father, Claire Forrest enlists the help of private detective, Lance Reardon. Clues lead them to a remote Pacific isle known only as "Mystery Island", where the two confront sinister and astonishing forces. The descendants of a long-dead pirate, Captain Mephisto are holding the scientist for their own gain. Worst of all, one of the heirs possesses a "Transformation Machine" with the impossible ability of changing him into the molecular duplicate of his ancestor, Mephisto.

####The Martian (film)####
File:PIA19913-MarsLandingSite-Ares3Mission-TheMartian-2015Film-20150517.jpg|thumb|left|Ares III mission landing site (Acidalia Planitia region)


In 2035, the crew of the Ares III mission to Mars is exploring Acidalia Planitia on Martian solar day (sol)&nbsp;18 of their 31-sol expedition. A severe dust storm threatens to topple their Mars Ascent Vehicle (MAV). The mission is scrubbed, but as the crew evacuates, astronaut Mark Watney is struck by debris. The telemetry from his suit's bio-monitor is damaged and Watney is erroneously presumed dead. With the MAV (Mars Ascent Vehicle) on the verge of toppling, the remaining crew takes off for their orbiting vessel, the "Hermes".

Watney awakens after the storm, injured and with a low-oxygen warning. He returns to the crew's surface habitat ("Hab") and treats his wound. As Watney recovers, he begins a video diary. Unable to communicate with Earth, his only chance of rescue is the next Mars mission. In four years, the Ares IV will land convert|3200|km|sp=us away at the Schiaparelli crater. Watney's immediate concern is food; being a botanist, he creates a garden inside the Hab using Martian soil fertilized with the crew's bio-waste and manufactures water from leftover rocket fuel. He then cultivates potatoes using whole potatoes reserved for a special Thanksgiving  meal. He also begins modifying the rover for the journey to the Ares IV MAV site.

On Earth, NASA satellite planner Mindy Park, reviewing satellite images, notices moved equipment and realizes Watney must be alive. NASA director Teddy Sanders releases the news to the public, but decides not to tell the Ares III crew so that they will remain focused on their mission, over flight director Mitch Henderson's strong objection.

thu

Watney takes the rover on a one-month journey to retrieve the "Pathfinder" probe, which fell silent in 1997, and its associated "Sojourner" rover. Using "Pathfinder"'s camera and motor, he establishes visual contact with NASA. NASA transmits a software patch to link the mission's rover with "Pathfinder", enabling communication by text. Sanders finally allows Henderson to inform Watney's crewmates.

Mars missions director Vincent Kapoor and Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) director Bruce Ng prepare a space probe to deliver enough food for Watney to survive until Ares IV's arrival. Meanwhile, the Hab's airlock blows out, exposing the Hab to the harsh Martian environment, killing all the potato plants. Sanders orders the routine safety inspections be bypassed to save time, as a result the Atlas V rocket explodes soon after lift-off.

The China National Space Administration has developed a secret booster rocket, the "Taiyang Shen"<!-- Footnote: (lit. the "Sun God") -->. The decision is made to use the rocket to resupply Watney. Physicist Rich Purnell devises an alternative plan: have the "Taiyang Shen" rendezvous with and resupply the "Hermes", which will then use Earth's gravity to "slingshot" back to Mars two years earlier than Ares IV. Sanders rejects the idea, considering it too risky for the "Hermes" crew. Henderson surreptitiously sends Purnell's proposal to the crew; they unanimously vote to implement it without seeking NASA approval, disabling NASA's remote controls and making the course change. Sanders is forced to support them publicly, but demands Henderson resign after the Ares III mission is complete.

Watney begins the 90-sol journey to Schiaparelli, where the MAV for Ares IV has been pre-positioned. He must use it to rendezvous with the "Hermes", but it needs to be lightened considerably. After takeoff, when the MAV runs out of fuel, its velocity relative to the "Hermes" is too fast for Watney to be picked up. Commander Lewis quickly improvises, using an explosive to breach a forward airlock, resulting in air escaping violently and slowing down the "Hermes". It is still not enough; using a tethered Manned Maneuvering Unit, Lewis is unable to reach Watney. Watney pierces his pressure suit, using the escaping air to propel himself to Lewis, ending his 543 sols alone on Mars.

After returning to Earth, Watney becomes a survival instructor for astronaut candidates. Five years later, as the Ares V is about to launch, those involved in Watney's rescue are seen in their current lives.

####Master of the World (1961 film)####
A man known only as Robur (Price)  shoots down and takes on board his flying ship Prudent (Hull), his daughter Dorothy (Webster), her fiancé Evans (Frankham), all of whom were exploring a volcanic crater in their balloon, along with US government agent Strock (Bronson), who had hired them to look for evidence of an eruption. The supposed eruption was caused by Robur working on his airship; he had also inadvertently broadcast a biblical passage over a voice amplifier, stirring religious fears among the citizenry of the nearby town. Robur has been traversing the globe in his airship, the "Albatross", with the obsessive aim of forcing peace on the world by virtue of his superior military capabilities. He has a loyal crew of like-minded, equally fanatical idealists. The captives learn how his ship operates, and about his technical advances, including generation of electrical power by crossing "lines of magnetic force", a quaint but accurate description of a dynamo's operating principle.  The prisoners are anxious to escape, but don't fully trust Strock, who appears at times to side with Robur. After saving Evans' life, Strock explains that his oath of loyalty to Robur was insincere, and that as a captive he feels no compunction to behave as a gentleman.

Robur proceeds to destroy various nations' means of making war, but a desert conflict wounds Robur and damages the "Albatross".  After the airship succeeds in escaping and Robur recovers, the ship anchors at an island for repairs, where the captives rig the armoury with an explosive charge. All escape down the anchor line except Strock, who follows while being shot at by the crew. First Strock, then Evans, work at cutting the anchor line, finally releasing the airship, which is damaged beyond repair moments later when the gunpowder explodes. Robur orders his crew to abandon ship, but they choose to ignore his final order, and gather in his quarters while he reads from Isaiah 2:4 (the "swords to plowshares" passage), reminding them of their pledge to try to rid the world of war. The ship, along with Robur and his crew, crashes into the ocean and explodes, while the captives watch, injured but alive, from the shore.

####Max Steel (film)####

Teenager Max McGrath moves with his mother Molly to the town of Copper Canyon, where he was born and where his father Jim McGrath died in a supposed storm. In his first few days at school, he realizes that almost everyone in town knows more about Jim than he does because his mother refuses to talk about Jim's past or death. During dinner with Jim's friend Miles Edwards, Max learns that his father worked for N-TEK, an advanced research company now run by Miles. Concurrently after arriving, Max discovers he emits a unique form of tachyonic energy called TURBO which is powerful enough to overload any electrical item, but he has no control over when he emits it. After sensing an oncoming overload during a date with classmate Sofia, Max encounters an amnesiac alien creature named Steel, who symbiotically bonds with Max to absorb the energy.

Finding themselves chased by mysterious men, Max takes Steel to his high school to hide and finds himself opening up emotionally for the first time in his life. Max learns to control and harness his powers, including linking with Steel to form a suit of armor. While linked, Max starts to see his father's life through flashbacks shared with Steel and learns that an alien race called the Ultralinks with the power to manipulate the elements launched an attack on N-TEK. In search of answers, Max goes there to visit Miles, who explains that Jim was working on creating a generator capable of creating an unlimited source of power, and suggests that Jim died in an accident caused by not following safety procedures. Feeling another energy spike, Max finds solace but is soon caught in a powerful storm, which he realizes is an Ultralink. Working together, Max and Steel defeat the Ultralink and, to their shock, find it looks identical to Steel. Another flashback hints that Steel was responsible for Jim's death, causing Max to lash out at Steel and walk away.

Max discovers Molly is missing, borrows Sofia's car, and calls Miles, who reveals he is aware of the Ultralinks and that Molly was kidnapped as a trap for Max at the old N-TEK Facility where Jim died. Max goes to the facility and finds Steel captured, where he has a flashback that shows the truth: Jim McGrath was an alien who naturally generated TURBO, Steel was his partner, and the power generator was a machine designed to harness and focus his natural energy; however, Miles became addicted to infusing the TURBO for the power it gave him, and allied with the Ultralinks to absorb Jim's energy for himself. Jim overloaded the core to stop Miles and, with his final words, told Steel to find and protect Max at all costs.

Miles entraps Max, having created a suit of armor that drains TURBO, seeking to harvest the energy for himself. Learning to use his armored form as Max Steel, Max fights Miles aided by the mysterious men, revealed to be an N-TEK Special Forces Squad who were working for Miles to find Steel, but are now working for Molly (as majority shareholder of the company). Working together, Max and Steel generate so much energy that Miles is unable to absorb it, overloading him in a massive explosion. Molly reveals that after Jim's death, she feared the Ultralinks would come after Max, so she constantly moved until Miles suggested they move back to Copper Canyon in case Max started to emit TURBO. Max apologizes to Sofia for his behavior and makes a date for that night, then goes for a flight in the armor with Steel's assistance.

####The Maze Runner (film)####

A teenage boy wakes up inside an underground elevator with no memory of his identity, and greeted by several male youths in a large grass area, called the "Glade," enclosed by tall stone walls. The "Gladers" have formed a rudimentary society, and each assumes specialized tasks. The boy learns that a vast Maze surrounding them is the only way out. During the day, designated Runners search the Maze for an escape route and return before nightfall when the entrance closes. After a competitive fight with Gally, the boy remembers his name is Thomas. The next day, he is attacked by Ben, a Runner who has been stung and left delirious by a Griever, one of the techno-organic creatures that roam the Maze at night. Ben is forced into the Maze and left to die as a direct consequence of his actions, along with there being no cure for his condition. Alby, the leader, and Minho, the lead Runner, later retrace Ben's steps inside the Maze the following morning. Minho reappears late in the afternoon dragging Alby, who has been stung, but are unable to reach the closing entrance in time. Thomas runs into the Maze to help, which leaves all three trapped. Thomas lures a Griever into a closing passageway, which causes it to be crushed. The three manage to survive the night and return the next morning.

A girl arrives in the elevator, with a note saying that she is the last one to enter the Glade, and recognizes Thomas, but he cannot remember her. Thomas, Minho, Frypan, Winston, and Zart enter the Maze, locate the Griever corpse, and remove a beeping mechanical device from inside it. Gally claims that Thomas has jeopardized the fragile peace between the Gladers and the Grievers, and wants him punished. However, Newt, the group's second-in-command, instead designates Thomas as a Runner. Minho shows Thomas a hand-constructed model of the Maze that is based on previous explorations. The Maze's numbered sections open and close in a regular sequence and Thomas realizes that the device corresponds to a section of the Maze.

The girl, Teresa, has two syringes filled with an unknown substance. One is used on Alby, and he recovers from the Griever sting. Minho and Thomas venture back into the Maze with the device and discover a possible exit. Several traps are activated, forcing Thomas and Minho to leave. That night, the Maze entrance does not close, and others open, allowing the Grievers to enter. Alby, Zart, Clint, and several others die and Gally blames Thomas for the events. Thomas, who has been having disconnected memory flashes since his arrival, stabs himself with a severed Griever stinger in an attempt to revive his memory before he is injected with the last anti-venom. Unconscious, he recalls that he and Teresa worked for the organization that created the Maze, WCKD, and the boys unknowingly have been test subjects for an experiment. Thomas awakens and confesses that he and Teresa worked with WCKD and studied the boys for years.

Meanwhile, Gally has taken command and intends to sacrifice Thomas and Teresa to the Grievers to restore peace. However, several Gladers free them and enter the Maze, but Gally and a few others refuse to leave. As they attempt to access a possible exit, Jeff and several other Gladers are killed by Grievers. The Gladers eventually enter a laboratory strewn with corpses. In a video recording, Ava Paige, a WCKD official, explains that the planet has been devastated by a massive solar flare, followed by a pandemic of a deadly virus, the Flare. The group learns that they were part of an experiment intended to develop a cure. Paige is seen shooting herself in the video as the lab is overtaken by armed men. Gally, having been stung by a Griever, appears, insists that they will never be free, and points a gun at Thomas. Minho impales Gally in the chest with a spear, but he fatally shoots Chuck. While Thomas mourns over Chuck, masked armed men then rush in and take the group to a helicopter. It flies over a vast desert wasteland and approaches a ruined city.

Later, the supposedly dead scientists meet in a room. Paige notes that the experiment has been successful and the survivors are now entering Phase Two.

####Maze Runner: The Death Cure####
####Men in Black (franchise)####
####Men in Black (film series)####
####Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The Movie####
The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers participate with Bulk and Skull in a charity skydive for the Angel Grove observatory, in anticipation of Ryan's Comet which is scheduled to pass by in two days. Bulk and Skull miss the target landing zone and accidentally land at a construction site where a giant purple egg has been unearthed. Lord Zedd, Rita Repulsa, Goldar and Mordant arrive at the construction site and crack open the egg, releasing Ivan Ooze, a morphological being who ruled Earth 6,000 years ago before he was lured into a hyper-lock chamber and buried deep underground by Zordon and a group of young warriors. The Rangers find and confront him, but Ivan unleashes some ooze monsters on them. While the Rangers battle and successfully defeat them, the fight distracts them long enough to allow Ivan to escape and lay siege to the Command Center, incapacitating Zordon, and robbing the Rangers of their powers. As the Rangers return to the Command Center, they find it destroyed and Zordon, being outside his time warp, aging and dying.

Zordon's assistant Alpha 5 sends the Rangers to the distant planet Phaedos to obtain the Great Power and save Zordon. On the Moon, Ivan usurps Rita and Zedd, shrinking and trapping them in a snow globe, and forces Goldar and Mordant to be his servants, then sends his Tengu warriors to Phaedos and begins building an army. He uses children to bring his ooze to their parents, and it hypnotizes them into becoming his workforce to dig up his Ecto-Morphicons, twin war machines built during his reign. When Fred Kelman, a friend of the Rangers, discovers his father missing, he finds him working at the construction site and discovers Ivan's plans.

On Phaedos, the Rangers are almost killed by the Tengu but are rescued by Dulcea, Phaedos' Master Warrior. She initially tells them to leave for their safety, but after hearing of Zordon's plight, she agrees to help them and takes them to an ancient ruined temple where the Rangers will have to overcome obstacles to acquire the power of the Ninjetti. Dulcea awakens each Rangers' animal spirit; Aisha is the bear, Rocky is the ape, Billy is the wolf, Kimberly is the crane, Adam is the frog, and Tommy is the falcon. Upon being asked if she could join them, Dulcea informs the Rangers that she would begin to age as rapidly as Zordon is at the moment if she steps beyond the temple. She then shapeshifts into an owl to preserve her age. The Rangers make their way to the Monolith housing the Great Power, using their wits to defeat a live fossilized dinosaur skeleton, and then, the temple's Stone Gargoyle guardians, and retrieve the Great Power, restoring their suits.

On Earth, Ivan's Ecto-Morphicons are completely unearthed, and he unleashes them on Angel Grove, ordering the parents to walk off a cliff at the construction site. Fred recruits Bulk, Skull, and the other kids, who head to the construction site to save their parents. The Rangers return with their new animal-themed Ninja Zords and, after a difficult struggle, destroy one of Ivan's Ecto-Morphicons, Scorpitron. Ivan takes control of Hornitor and battles the Rangers himself as they combine their Zords to form the Ninja Megazord and later the Ninja Falcon Megazord. Meanwhile, the kids push the parents back while Fred, with help from Bulk and Skull, sprays them with a large amount of water. The Rangers lure Ivan into space and knock him right into the path of Ryan's Comet, which destroys him. Ivan's death breaks his spell on the parents, who are reunited with their children. The Rangers return to the Command Center but are distraught to find Zordon has died. They use the Great Power to restore the Command Center and resurrect Zordon, returning him to his time warp. Everything returns to normal in Angel Grove as a celebration is held at the Harbor with fireworks and a message saying "Thank You Power Rangers" which offends Bulk and Skull.

In a mid-credits scene, Goldar briefly lounges on Zedd's throne, being served by Mordant, only to panic when Zedd and Rita appear, having been released after Ivan was destroyed.

####Minutemen (film)####
On the first day of high school, best friends Virgil (Jason Dolley), Derek (Steven R. McQueen), and Stephanie (Chelsea Kane) each decide to try out various activities around the school. However, while Derek tries football and Stephanie tries cheerleading, Virgil's high school career takes a turn when young genius Charlie Tuttle (Luke Benward) interrupts football practice as he tears across the field on a rocket car. As the football team begins harassing Charlie, Virgil comes to his defense only to get bullied as well. Virgil and Charlie are forced to dress like cheerleaders and are hung from the school mascot's statue by their underwear.

Three years later, Virgil and Charlie are outcasts because of the incident despite Derek claiming that he had tried to stop the bullies from humiliating them. Charlie informs Virgil that he has invented a time machine. After enlisting grease junky Zeke (Nicholas Braun) for his mechanical skills, the time machine is built, and they test it out by attempting to purchase a winning lottery ticket in the past. Forgetting that they are underage, they ask a local street performer to buy it for them but are forced to return to the present early. This, in turn, causes the street performer to win the lottery using the numbers they provided. After this failure, Charlie comes up with a plan to only use the machine to undo embarrassing mistakes made by their classmates. The group asks classmate Jeanette (Kara Crane), who has a one-sided crush on Charlie, to oversee the time machine whenever they travel to the past, and she provides them with white snowsuits to protect them from the portal's freezing temperatures.

The trio soon become known as the "Snowsuit Guys" (though they themselves prefer to be called the "Minutemen") and are named local heroes by the students, but labeled as troublemakers by the vice principal (J.P. Manoux) because of them accidentally breaking his diorama of the school. Virgil, Zeke, and Charlie soon realize that the behavior of the teenagers they saved have changed, as the formerly bullied have become bullies themselves. Charlie reveals that in order to get the time machine to work, he had to hack and steal files from NASA. To avoid attracting unwanted attention, Charlie warns Zeke and Virgil to refrain from using the time machine for a while. Virgil later sees Stephanie with a broken leg due to a cheerleading injury that caused her to lose her scholarship to her dream college. Despite Charlie's protests, Virgil convinces the group to travel back in time and prevent Stephanie from getting injured, revealing his identity to her in the process.

After Derek experiences a humiliating loss at the state championship, Stephanie asks Virgil to change the past so Derek can win; in turn, the former friends are reunited. After hanging with the popular kids, Virgil begins to abandon Charlie and Zeke in favor of Stephanie and Derek. However, Stephanie eventually learns that Derek is cheating on her with his tutor Jocelyn. Derek pleads with Virgil to change the past so Stephanie never finds out, but Virgil is reluctant, having realized he has his own feelings for her.

The FBI comes to town after monitoring suspicious activity and interrogates Charlie, Zeke, and Virgil. The trio bitterly disbands due to Virgil's repeated use of the time machine to help his own popularity. After consulting with the government's top scientists, Charlie learns that their trips to the past have damaged the space-time continuum, thus creating a black hole. With only hours to live, the trio reunites and is forced to venture into the hole and close it.

Once they have entered the black hole, they are transported back to their first day of high school, as the key component from the time machine was in Charlie's rocket cart. Virgil realizes that he can undo the events that caused him to lose his popularity. Charlie admits that although Virgil hates this day, it's his favorite as it's the day he finally got a real friend. Charlie and Zeke leave Virgil to make a decision, but as Virgil watches the incident unfold, he discovers that Derek didn’t defend him at all. Instead, he had betrayed him in favor of gaining popularity by suggesting to also put lipstick on the two. Having come to his senses, Virgil picks up the rocket car and reunites with Charlie and Zeke.

The trio race back to the black hole just as it closes. They are then thrown back in time to the day they first time traveled. As they walk through the school, nobody suspects a thing and have no clue of the group’s heroic actions. Virgil stands up to Derek for his treachery and wins Stephanie's heart, while Charlie reciprocates Jeanette's feelings for him. Charlie comes up with a new scientific idea involving teleportation and Virgil and Zeke drag him away as he rambles about his plan.

####Moon (2009 film)####
In the near future,efn|A computer screen shows a date of 2035 in one scene towards the end. Lunar Industries has made a fortune after an oil crisis by building Sarang Station, a facility on the far side of the Moon to mine the alternative fuel helium-3 from lunar soil, which is rich in the material. The facility is highly automated, requiring only a single human to maintain operations, oversee harvester machines, and launch canisters bound for Earth containing the extracted helium-3. Samuel Bell nears the end of his three-year work contract at Sarang Station. Chronic communication problems have disabled his live feed from Earth and limit him to occasional recorded messages from his wife Tess, who was pregnant with their daughter Eve when he left. His only companion is an artificial intelligence named GERTY, who assists with the base's automation and provides comfort for him.

Two weeks before his return to Earth, Sam begins to suffer from hallucinations of a teenage girl and a bearded, disheveled man. One such image distracts him while he is out recovering a helium-3 canister from a harvester, causing him to crash his lunar rover into the harvester. Rapidly losing cabin air from the crash, Sam falls unconscious.

Sam awakes in the base infirmary with no memory of the accident. He overhears GERTY having what appears to be a live chat with Lunar Industries management. Lunar Industries then orders Sam to remain on base and informs him that a rescue team will arrive to repair the harvester. Suspicious, Sam manufactures a fake problem to persuade GERTY to let him outside. He travels to the crashed rover, where he finds his unconscious doppelganger. He brings the double back to the base and tends to his injuries. The two Sams start to wonder if one is a clone of the other. After a heated argument and physical altercation, GERTY reveals that they are both clones of the original Sam Bell. GERTY activated the newest clone after the rover crash and convinced him that he was at the beginning of his three-year contract. GERTY confirms his memories of his wife and daughter are implanted.

The two Sams search the area, finding a communications substation beyond the facility's perimeter which has been interfering with the live feed from Earth. GERTY helps the older Sam access the recorded logs of past Sam clones, showing them all falling ill as their contract expires. Later, the older Sam discovers a secret vault containing hundreds of hibernating clones. They determine that Lunar Industries is unethically using clones of the original Sam Bell to avoid the cost of training and transporting new astronauts, as well as deliberately jamming the live feed in order to prevent the clones from contacting Earth; clones who believe they are entering the final hibernation at the end of their contract just before their final return to Earth are in fact incinerated. The older Sam clone drives past the interference radius in a second rover and tries to call Tess on Earth. He instead makes contact with Eve, now 15 years old, who says Tess died "some years ago". He hangs up when Eve tells her father (offscreen, identified as "Original Sam" in closed captioning) that someone is calling regarding Tess. After he returns, the older Sam begins displaying the same symptoms as previous clones as they begin to deteriorate.

The two Sams realize that the incoming rescue team will kill them both if they are found together. The newer Sam convinces GERTY to wake another clone, planning to leave the awakened clone in the crashed rover and send the older Sam to Earth in one of the helium-3 transports. But the older Sam, having learned that the clones are designed to break down at the end of the 3-year contract, knows that he will not live much longer. With his health rapidly declining, the older Sam suggests that he be placed back into the crashed rover to die so that Lunar Industries will not suspect anything, while the newer Sam escapes instead.

Following GERTY's advice, the newer Sam reboots GERTY to wipe its records of the events. Before leaving, the newer clone reprograms a harvester to crash and wreck the jamming antenna, thereby enabling live communications with Earth; he also brings along a canister of helium-3 to provide him with funds once he reaches Earth. The older Sam, back in the crippled rover, remains conscious long enough to watch the launch of the transport carrying the newer Sam to Earth. The rescue team is successfully fooled after finding both a newly-awakened clone in the medical bay and the corpse of the older Sam inside of the crashed rover.

The helium transport arrives at Earth, and over the film's credits, news reports describe how Sam's testimony on Lunar Industries' activities has stirred up an enormous controversy, and the company's unethical practices have caused their stock to plummet.

####Mortal Engines (film)####
Set more than a thousand years in the future following a cataclysmic conflict known as the Sixty Minute War, the remnants of mankind regroup and form mobile cities, called "Traction Cities". Under a philosophy known as "Municipal Darwinism", larger "predator" cities hunt and absorb smaller settlements in the "Great Hunting Ground", which includes Great Britain and Continental Europe. In opposition, settlements of the "Anti-Traction League" have developed an alternative civilization consisting of "static settlements" (traditional, non-mobile cities) in Asia led by Shan Guo (formerly China), protected by the "Shield Wall". Relics of 21st-century technology such as toasters, computers, and smartphones are valued by historians as "Old-Tech."

The city of London captures a small Bavarian mining town called Salzhaken, absorbing its population and resources, under orders of Lord Mayor Magnus Crome. Tom Natsworthy, an apprentice historian, arrives at London's "Gut" to collect Salzhaken's Old-Tech for London's Museum. Hester Shaw, a masked twenty-something woman among the Salzhakens, attempts to assassinate Thaddeus Valentine, Head of the Guild of Historians, but Tom intervenes, pursuing Hester to a chute. Hester escapes, but not before telling him that Valentine murdered her mother and scarred her face. When Tom informs Valentine of this, he pushes Tom down the chute.

Tom and Hester are forced to work together to traverse the Hunting Ground, surviving Southies, Scavs on a night hunt, and finding refuge in a vehicle called Scuttlebug, but the owners lock them in a cell, intending to sell them as slaves. Hester confides that Valentine killed her archaeologist mother Pandora after stealing a piece of Old-Tech she found in a dig in the Dead Continent of the Americas, while young Hester escaped with a necklace her mother gave her. Meanwhile, Valentine frees Shrike, a reanimated cyborg known as a "Stalker", from the offshore walking prison Sharkmoor, to find and kill Hester. At the slave market of Rustwater in the Outlands, Tom and Hester are rescued by Anti-Traction League agent Anna Fang. During the chaos, they are pursued by Shrike, whom Hester reveals she knows. Hester explains that Shrike had found and raised her after escaping Valentine, and Hester promised to let him turn her into a Stalker like himself, but she left after discovering that London had entered the Great Hunting Ground, giving her a chance to kill Valentine. In London, Valentine's good-natured daughter Katherine grows estranged from her father, especially after Apprentice Engineer Bevis Pod informs her that Valentine pushed Tom down the chute, and they learn Valentine's energy project in the re-purposed St Paul's Cathedral is more than it seems.

Hester and Tom travel on Anna's airship, the "Jenny Haniver", to the airborne city Airhaven, meeting other Anti-Traction League members. After questioning Hester, Tom realizes Pandora discovered a computer core for MEDUSA, a quantum energy-based superweapon used by the belligerents during the Sixty Minute War to instantly destroy entire cities, albeit shattering the Earth's crust into a thousand pieces that have rearranged the former continents. The Guild of Engineers has stolen the remaining components from Tom's museum workshop and built a MEDUSA under Valentine's orders. Shrike catches up with them, resulting in a fierce skirmish that critically wounds him and destroys Airhaven. Realizing that Hester is in love with Tom, he spares Tom and frees her of her promise before perishing. As Hester, Tom, and Anna travel to the Shield Wall of Batmunkh Gompa with the surviving Anti-Tractionists, Valentine kills Crome in a coup and musters support from Londoners by vowing to destroy the Shield Wall with MEDUSA and lead them to a new Hunting Ground in Asia. Anna convinces Shan Guo's Governor Kwan to launch the Anti-Tractionist airship fleet against London, but MEDUSA destroys the fleet and blasts a hole through the Shield Wall. After coming upon a stone carving of Medusa, Hester discovers that her mother's necklace hides a "crash drive", a kill switch for MEDUSA. Hester, Tom, Anna, and the remaining Anti-Tractionists lead a raid against London, braving the city's anti-aircraft guns.

Hester and Anna infiltrate St Paul's, and though Valentine mortally wounds Anna during a sword duel, Hester destroys MEDUSA with the crash drive. In a last-ditch attempt to destroy the Shield Wall, the insane Valentine has his henchmen kill the city's control crew and put the city on full throttle on a collision course with the Wall with no concern for all involved. With Katherine's help, Tom uses the "Jenny Haniver" to destroy London's engine. Hester catches and fights Valentine aboard his airship, where he reveals that he is her father. Tom rescues Hester and shoots down Valentine's ship, which is crushed by London's slowing tracks, killing Valentine. With Valentine's defeat, the surviving Londoners, now led by Katherine, make peace with the Anti-Tractionists of Shan Guo. As Governor Kwan welcomes the Londoners, Tom and Hester embrace each other and leave in the "Jenny Haniver" together to see the world.

####The Mothership####
One year after her husband mysteriously vanishes from their rural farm, single mother Sara Morse and her children discover a strange, extraterrestrial object underneath their home, which leads them to embark on a race to find their husband, father, and most importantly – the truth.

####Mysterious Island (1961 film)####
In 1865, during the American Civil War, Union soldiers Cyrus Harding, Herbert Brown and Neb Nugent, along with war correspondent Gideon Spillet are being held at the Libby Military Prison in Richmond, Virginia. While escaping, they kidnap Pencroft, a Confederate guard that knows how to pilot a nearby gas balloon.

The balloon carries them westwards, over the Pacific Ocean. A storm arises, tearing open the airship and forcing the men to crash land on an unknown island. This strange place turns out to have lush tropical jungles, harsh plains, and many volcanoes which frequently erupt.

While exploring the island, the men are attacked by a giant crab. They manage to push it into a boiling geyser and have crab meat for dinner. Afterwards, they find two unconscious English ladies, Lady Mary Fairchild and her niece Elena, who were shipwrecked there by the same storm. Working together, the castaways find cover and protection in a cave. A treasure chest later washes ashore. It has a variety of useful items, including rifles, nautical charts, and books such as "Robinson Crusoe". Markings upon one of the rifles indicate that it came from the "Nautilus". Spillet gives Lady Fairchild a brief summation of the "Nautilus", its creator Captain Nemo, and its supposed destruction off the coast of Mexico some eight years earlier. Spillet expresses a sense of respect and admiration for Nemo's genius and principles against war, while Harding derides him for being a madman, someone who killed numerous sailors during his crusade. Using one of the charts, the castaways are able to determine their location and proceed with the construction of a boat on which they can escape the island.

One day, Mary, Elena and Spillet encounter a giant flightless bird, belonging to a prehistoric species called "Phorusrhacos". Spillet and the women retreat, while the bird attacks. As it tries to eat Elena, Herbert arrives and apparently kills the creature. Later, as they consume the bird, they discover it was actually killed by a bullet none of them had fired.

A few weeks later, Herbert and Elena are sunning outside when they notice a rivulet of honey. Atop a rocky bluff, they come across a hive of giant bees. While escaping from the hive into a large flooded cave, Herbert and Elena spot the "Nautilus". They enter the vessel, but knowing that it belongs to someone else, retreat, swimming out of the cave. Meanwhile, Harding, Spillet, Neb, Mary and Pencroft spot an approaching pirate ship. They try to hide, but are discovered, and a fight ensues. The castaways prevail only after an explosion mysteriously sinks the pirate ship with all hands aboard.

Once outside, the castaways reunite and meet Captain Nemo, who is living aboard his disabled submarine. Nemo has been watching the castaways and secretly assisting them by sending the chest, shooting the giant bird, and sinking the pirate ship. He invites them to dinner aboard the "Nautilus". There, they find out that the giant creatures are results of Nemo's genetic experiments to enlarge the world's food resources, thereby eliminating hunger and economic competition which he sees as prime causes for the wars he was striving to end all his life. Due to their fortitude, he has selected them to assist him in his efforts to make his achievements known to the world, especially since the "Nautilus" is incapacitated beyond repair and the volcano will soon erupt, destroying the island.

When time runs out, the castaways discover that Nemo has invented an air-filled raising system which can refloat the pirate ship, the only readily seaworthy vessel on the island. Nemo teaches them to breathe underwater using his special "shell" air tanks, and they work to raise the ship, despite interference by a giant Ammonite. With the pirate ship raised and seaworthy, the castaways set sail. The volcano erupts and Nemo is killed as the "Nautilus" is buried. The rest escape and begin the journey home, vowing to continue Nemo's dream of achieving lasting peace throughout the world.

####Oceanus: Act One####
####Pacific Rim (film)####
<!--- WP:FILMPLOT 400-700 words. Edits will be reverted if the plot length goes over 700 words. As of November 2022: 688 words. Please make more concise if possible. --->
In 2013, massive alien monsters called Kaiju begin emerging from an interdimensional portal, "the Breach" at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean and attacking coastal cities. In response, humanity builds massive robots called Jaegers, each co-piloted by two or more people who share a mental link by a process called "Drifting" to share the mental stress of piloting the machine.

In 2020, brothers Yancy and Raleigh Becket pilot the American Jaeger, "Gipsy Danger", to defend Anchorage from a Category-3 Kaiju codenamed Knifehead, who severely damages "Gipsy", killing Yancy. Raleigh kills Knifehead and pilots "Gipsy" solo to shore before collapsing. Traumatized by the loss of his brother and the stress of piloting alone, Raleigh quits the Jaeger program.

Five years later, world leaders decide to cease funding for the Jaeger program and replace it with coastal defense walls, since Kaiju attack frequency is increasing and Jaegers are being destroyed quicker than they are built. The walls are quickly proven to be ineffective. The remaining Jaegers are relocated to Hong Kong under the command of Marshal Stacker Pentecost, who plans to try to destroy the Breach using a tactical nuclear weapon, despite unsuccessful previous attempts.

Raleigh, now working in wall construction, is recruited by Pentecost for the mission. At the Hong Kong base, the Shatterdome, Raleigh is introduced to Mako Mori, the director of the Jaeger restoration program and Pentecost's adoptive daughter. Four Jaegers remain operational – the refurbished "Gipsy Danger", the Russian "Cherno Alpha", the Chinese "Crimson Typhoon", and the Australian "Striker Eureka", piloted by father-and-son team, Herc and Chuck Hansen. To find a new co-pilot, Raleigh participates in tryouts, deciding that Mako is "drift-compatible". During their first test, Raleigh falls out of alignment after reliving Yancy's death, causing Mako to become lost in the memory of a Kaiju attack on Tokyo, nearly firing "Gipsy"'s energy cannon. As a result, Pentecost grounds Mako.

Pentecost consults Kaiju experts Newton Geiszler and Hermann Gottlieb. Hermann claims the Breach will stabilize and the Kaiju will increase in number, but it will allow the assault to succeed. Against Pentecost's recommendation, Newton drifts with a Kaiju's brain to learn more about them, discovering that Kaiju are bioweapons grown by aliens so they can colonize Earth. Pentecost instructs Newton to find black market dealer Hannibal Chau to obtain another Kaiju brain to drift with. Newton realizes the Kaiju hive mind gained access to his brain, since drifting is a two-way link, and the two newest Kaiju to emerge, Leatherback and Otachi, are sent simultaneously to find him in Hong Kong.

All Jaegers except "Gipsy Danger" are dispatched to intervene. The Kaijus destroy "Crimson Typhoon" and "Cherno Alpha", while Leatherback disables "Striker Eureka" with an EMP blast, also injuring Herc. As the only non-digital Jaeger, Pentecost sends the nuclear-powered "Gipsy Danger" to help. "Gipsy" manages to defeat Leatherback and Otachi. Newton and Hannibal go to harvest Otachi's secondary brain but discover she is pregnant. The infant Kaiju bursts out and devours Hannibal before choking on its own umbilical cord. Newton and Hermann drift with the infant's brain, discovering that the Breach only opens in the presence of a Kaiju's DNA.

Pentecost reveals to Raleigh he is dying of radiation poisoning due to piloting a first-generation Jaeger alone to save a young Mako, and has been unable to pilot a Jaegar since then. When two new Kaiju are detected guarding the Breach, "Gipsy" and the repaired "Striker", piloted by Pentecost and Chuck, begin their assault. Approaching the Breach, the Jaegers are attacked by the Kaiju alongside a new Category-5 Kaiju, Slattern, leading to "Striker" being crippled. Pentecost and Chuck sacrifice themselves and "Striker" while "Gipsy" slaughters Slattern, riding its corpse into the Breach. Raleigh ejects Mako from "Gipsy", manually triggers "Gipsy"'s nuclear reactor core's self-destruct, and ejects himself before it explodes and seals the Breach. Raleigh and Mako's escape pods surface in the Pacific Ocean; they embrace as rescue helicopters arrive.


####Pacific Rim Uprising####

In 2035, ten years after the Battle of the Breach, in which the portal created by the Precursors (through which they sent Kaiju) was closed,efn|name=Timeline|As depicted in "Pacific Rim" (2013) former Jaeger pilot Jake Pentecost—son of Stacker Pentecost—makes a living by stealing and selling Jaeger parts on the black market in Santa Monica, California. After he tracks part of a disabled Jaeger's power core to the secret workshop of fifteen-year-old Jaeger enthusiast Amara Namani, both are apprehended by the Pan-Pacific Defense Corps (PPDC) following an altercation between Amara's small, single-pilot Jaeger "Scrapper" and the law enforcement Jaeger "November Ajax". Jake's adoptive sister and Japanese Senator Mako Mori persuades him to return to PPDC as an instructor to avoid prison, with Amara as his recruit.

Arriving at the China Shatterdome, Jake starts training Jaeger cadets with his estranged former co-pilot Nathan "Nate" Lambert. Nate and Mako explain that the Jaeger program is threatened by the Shao Corporation's new drone program, which offers to mass-produce Jaeger drones developed by Liwen Shao and Dr. Newton 'Newt' Geiszler. Mako is due to deliver a final assessment to determine the approval of the drones at a PPDC council meeting in Sydney, but is accidentally killed by a rogue Jaeger, "Obsidian Fury," during an altercation with the latter and "Gipsy Avenger," Jake and Nate's Jaeger, before she can. Her death prompts the PPDC council to authorize and deploy the drones immediately. "Obsidian Fury" escapes into the ocean before backup Jaegers can apprehend it.

Moments before her death, Mako had transmitted the location of a defunct Jaeger production facility in Siberia. Jake and Nate travel there in "Gipsy Avenger", but "Obsidian Fury" destroys the complex and engages them in battle. Although "Obsidian Fury" initially has the upper hand, "Gipsy Avenger" is able to overpower the Jaeger. Upon removing its reactor, they find that "Obsidian Fury" was controlled not by humans, but by a Kaiju's secondary brain, which testing shows was grown on Earth.

When the drones reach their respective locations, their piloting operations are hijacked by cloned Kaiju brains secretly mounted onboard. The Kaiju-Jaeger hybrids simultaneously attack all Shatterdomes, inflicting heavy casualties and incapacitating almost all Jaegers. Newt and Dr. Hermann Gottlieb try to disable the drones, but the latter discovers that the former is behind the attack when he commands the Kaiju-Jaeger hybrids to open multiple breaches across the Pacific Rim. Newt's mind has been possessed by the Precursors—who forged a link when he and Hermann drifted with Kaiju brainsefn|name=Timeline—and reveals that he placed the brains in the drones to ensure the Precursors' plan would proceed.

Although Liwen is able to destroy the drones, closing the breaches, three creatures, Hakuja, Shrikethorn, and Raijin had already emerged and reached Tokyo. The team realizes that the Precursors' true goal is to detonate Mount Fuji with the Kaijus' blood which will cause every volcano lining the Ring of Fire to erupt, releasing volcanic matter into the atmosphere and wiping out all life on Earth, simultaneously terraforming the planet for Precursor colonization.

The cadets are mobilized while Hermann and Liwen repair the PPDC's four salvageable Jaegers; Hermann develops Kaiju-blood-powered rockets, which launch the team to Tokyo. Although the Jaegers, including "Gipsy Avenger", initially repel the three Kaiju, Newt merges them into a "Mega-Kaiju" using robotic parasites from one of Liwen's factories. Three of the four Jaegers are destroyed, leaving "Gipsy Avenger" as the only one remaining. Jake and Amara, replacing the injured Nate, pilot it against the Mega-Kaiju, with Liwen remote piloting "Scrapper" and aiding them by locating a rocket and welding it to "Gipsy", which sends the Jaeger (with "Scrapper" holding on) into the atmosphere and free-falling back to Earth, colliding into the Mega-Kaiju and killing it at the last second; Jake and Amara survive by transferring to "Scrapper". Enraged at the Mega-Kaiju's death, Newt attempts to initiate a "Plan B" but is knocked out and captured by Nate. Later, Jake speaks with Newt, who warns of the Precursor's return. Jake states that humanity is preparing for the upcoming war.

####Passengers (2016 film)####
The "Avalon", a sleeper ship transporting 5,000 colonists and 258 crew members in hibernation pods, is traveling from Earth to the planet Homestead II, a 120-year journey. After only 30 years, an asteroid collision damages the ship despite its defense systems, causing a malfunction that awakens passenger James "Jim" Preston, a mechanical engineer, 90 years too early.

After a year of isolation, with only an android barman named Arthur for company, Jim grows despondent and contemplates suicide until he notices Aurora Lane, a beautiful young woman inside a pod. He views her video profile and is smitten. He considers reviving her for companionship, but struggles doing so, knowing it is morally wrong and will circumvent her intended life on their destination planet. He eventually awakens her, letting her believe it was also a malfunction. He tells Arthur to conceal what he has done. Aurora, devastated at having to live out her life on the ship, unsuccessfully tries to re-enter hibernation. Resigned to the situation, Aurora, a writer and journalist, begins writing about her experience.

Over the next year, the two fall in love. Just before Jim intends to propose to Aurora, Arthur inadvertently reveals the truth about her awakening. A distraught and enraged Aurora berates, shuns, and even physically attacks Jim. She furiously rejects his apologies and avoids contact with him.

Sometime later, another pod failure awakens Gus Mancuso, a deck chief officer. Using Gus' personnel code, the group accesses the ship's bridge (which Jim unsuccessfully tried to breach). They discover multiple cascading failures throughout the ship's systems, but the computer does not reveal the cause. If left unrepaired, the ship will inevitably fail, causing the passengers and crew to perish. Gus realizes that Jim awakened Aurora; Gus does not condone Jim's actions but understands, and tells Aurora that a "drowning man" (meaning the suicidal Jim) will grab onto any lifeline. When Gus falls critically ill, the ship's automated medical suite, the Autodoc, diagnoses pansystemic necrosis and gives him hours to live. Gus attributes it to his hibernation pod's multiple failures. Before dying, Gus gives Jim and Aurora his ID badge and employee code to access crew-only areas, so he and Aurora can try to repair the ship.

Jim and Aurora find hull breaches from the asteroid collision two years earlier. The computer module administering the ship's fusion reactor power plant has been critically damaged, causing the cascading malfunctions as the other systems' computing power was diverted in an attempt to maintain it. They replace the damaged module, but when the computer attempts to vent the reactor to extinguish a runaway plasma reaction, the exterior vent fails. Jim is forced to spacewalk and vent the plasma from outside, using the manual controls in the vent tube.

Jim discovers that he must remain in the tube to keep the vent open while Aurora initiates venting from inside the ship. Revealing her enduring feelings for him, she admits she is terrified of losing him and being left alone. Jim improvises a heat shield and survives the venting but is blasted out into space as his tether snaps, and his damaged spacesuit begins losing oxygen. Aurora retrieves a clinically dead Jim from space and resuscitates him in the Autodoc. The "Avalon", its reactor repaired, returns to normal operations.

After burying Gus in space, Jim learns the Autodoc can function as a hibernation pod for one person; Aurora can go back into hibernation for the remainder of the voyage. Realizing she would never see Jim again, she chooses to remain awake with him. He presents her with the makeshift engagement ring he made earlier, which she accepts.

Eighty-eight years later, the ship's crew awakens on schedule, shortly before arrival at Homestead II. In the ship's grand concourse, they discover a huge tree with trailing vines, lush vegetation, flying birds, and a small cabin. A recording of Aurora's story describes the wonderful life she and Jim shared on the "Avalon".

####Paul (film)####
Best friends Graeme Willy and Clive Gollings are British comic book and sci-fi enthusiasts who travel to the United States to attend the annual San Diego Comic-Con. They embark on a road trip through the Southwestern U.S. to visit UFO sites on a remote desert highway at night.

After a brush with homophobic rednecks at a diner, they watch a car driving erratically and crashing. Stopping to offer assistance to the driver, he is revealed to be Paul, an alien. Graeme agrees to give him a ride, despite Clive fainting and wetting his pants upon seeing him.

Later, Special Agent Zoil of the Secret Service arrives at the car-crash site, informing his unseen female superior, "the Big Guy", that he is closing in on Paul. She sends rookies Haggard and O'Reilly to assist. Clive remains paranoid over Paul's intentions, considering his appearance as evidence of a conspiracy. Then Paul explains the government fed his image to the public to keep them from panicking if anyone encounters his race.

They later camp at an RV park run by Christian fundamentalists, one-eyed Ruth Buggs and her father Moses. The next day, when Ruth sees Paul, she faints, so they take her with them. During an argument, Paul convinces Ruth to question her beliefs and uses his healing power to cure her blind eye.

Stopping at a bar, Ruth calls her father, but Zoil intercepts the call. She is accosted by the rednecks and a bar fight ensues. They escape when Paul terrifies them into fainting. Later, at another RV park, Ruth is questioned by Agent Zoil, but plays dumb and escapes. Meanwhile, Haggard and O'Reilly have figured out about Paul. Confronting Zoil, he orders them to return to base, but they go behind his back and try to catch the alien on their own.

The group soon arrives at Tara's, who rescued Paul when he crashed on Earth 60 years ago, accidentally killing her dog (hence Paul's name) in the crash (opening scene). As no-one believed her story, she has spent her life as a pariah. Although angry at first, she forgives Paul and prepares to make tea for her visitors. Haggard, O'Reilly and Zoil arrive and surround the house. The group flee but O'Reilly shoots at them, igniting gas from Tara's stove and destroying her house with him inside. Haggard pursues and catches up to the RV but loses control and drives off a cliff. Zoil reassures the Big Guy that he will have Paul within the hour but tired of waiting, she orders a "military response".

Paul, Graeme, Clive, Ruth and Tara arrive at Devils Tower National Monument, where they set off fireworks to signal Paul's mothership. A helicopter suddenly arrives with agents and the Big Guy. Zoil appears and initiates a stand-off, unexpectedly shooting the agents, before being wounded. He is revealed to be Paul's friend, attempting to aid his escape under the guise of capturing him. During the fight, Tara knocks out the Big Guy. Moses arrives unexpectedly and fires at Paul, but hits Graeme instead. Paul once again uses his healing powers, reviving Graeme in spite of the danger to himself, causing Moses to believe Paul to be a messiah.

Graeme and Ruth admit their feelings for each other and kiss, but the Big Guy regains consciousness and holds the group at gunpoint. Just as she is about to kill them, she is crushed by the landing transport ship. Paul says goodbye to his friends and offers Tara a chance to go with him, promising to give her a new life after ruining her childhood and accidentally killing her dog. The aliens go home as the remaining humans wave. Two years later, Graeme, Clive and Ruth are at another Comic-Con, where Graeme and Clive are promoting their new bestselling novel titled "Paul".

####Planet 51####
####Planet of the Apes (1968 film)####
thu
Astronauts Taylor, Landon, and Dodge awaken from deep hibernation after a near-light-speed space voyage. Stewart, the lone female crew member, is dead due to a sleep chamber malfunction caused by an air leak, the look of her remains prefiguring the survivors’ encounters with the apes.  Their spacecraft crashes into a lake on an unknown planet; Taylor's estimate places them in Orion's Bellatrix System, 300 light-years from their home Solar System. Before they abandon their sinking vessel, the three survivors read the ship's chronometer as November 25, 3978 – two thousand and six years after their departure in 1972. However, due to time dilation, the astronauts themselves have aged slightly less than one year.

The men travel through desolate wasteland, coming across eerie scarecrow-like figures and a freshwater lake with lush vegetation. While swimming, the men's clothes are stolen and shredded by primitive mute humans. Soon after, armed gorillas raid a cornfield where the humans are gathering food. Taylor is shot in the throat as he and the others are captured. Dodge is killed and Landon rendered unconscious in the chaos. Taylor is taken to Ape City. Two chimpanzees, animal psychologist Zira and surgeon Galen, save Taylor's life, though his throat injury renders him temporarily mute.

Taylor is placed with a captive female, whom he later names Nova. He observes an advanced society of talking apes with a strict caste system: gorillas are the military force and laborers; orangutans oversee government and religion; and intellectual chimpanzees are mostly scientists and doctors. The ape society is a theocracy, while the apes consider the primitive humans as vermin to be hunted and either killed outright, enslaved, or used in scientific experiments. Taylor convinces Zira and her fiancé, Cornelius, that he is as intelligent as they are; one way by making a paper airplane. Dr. Zaius, their orangutan superior, arranges for Taylor to be castrated against Zira's protests. Taylor escapes and finds Dodge's stuffed corpse on display in a museum. He is soon recaptured, in the process revealing that he can speak, which alarms the apes.

thu
A hearing to determine Taylor's origins is convened. Taylor mentions his two comrades, learning that Landon was lobotomized and rendered catatonic. Believing Taylor either is from an unknown human tribe beyond their borders or was the subject of a mad scientist who gave him the power of speech, Zaius privately threatens to castrate and lobotomize Taylor for refusing to reveal his origins. With help from Zira's nephew Lucius, Zira and Cornelius free Taylor and Nova and take them to the Forbidden Zone, a taboo region outside Ape City where Taylor's ship crashed. Ape law has ruled the area out of bounds for centuries. Cornelius and Zira are intent to gather proof of an earlier non-simian civilization – which Cornelius discovered a year earlier – to be cleared of heresy; Taylor focuses on proving he comes from a different planet.

When the group arrives at the cave, Cornelius is intercepted by Zaius and his soldiers. Taylor holds them off by threatening to shoot Zaius, who agrees to enter the cave to disprove their theories. Inside, Cornelius displays remnants of a technologically advanced human society pre-dating simian history. Taylor identifies artifacts such as dentures, eyeglasses, a heart valve...and, to the apes' astonishment, a talking human doll. Zaius admits he has always known about the ancient human civilization. Taylor wants to search for answers. Zaius warns Taylor against finding an answer which he does not like, adding that the now-desolate Forbidden Zone was once a lush paradise. After Taylor and Nova are allowed to leave, Zaius has the cave sealed off to destroy the evidence, while charging Zira, Cornelius, and Lucius with heresy.

thu
Taylor and Nova follow the shoreline on horseback. Eventually, they discover the remnants of the Statue of Liberty, revealing that this supposedly alien planet is actually Earth, long after an apocalyptic nuclear war. Understanding Zaius' earlier warning while Nova looks on in shock, Taylor falls to his knees in despair, condemning humanity for destroying the world.

####Police State (2017 film)####
####Port Sinister####
The sunken Caribbean city of Port Royal had been long rumored to have been visited by pirates who rise from the ocean floor. In the mid-17th century, the port was a thriving seaport, but it was heavily damaged in 1692 and by an earthquake and had suffered numerous hurricanes which had prevented the port from regaining its former glory. A 1907 earthquake caused the city to sink beneath the waves.

A scientist (Tony) believes that the older portions of the city will soon become visible due to predicted volcanic activity, and after obtaining grant funding, wants to investigate.

Before arriving on the island, thugs local to the area plan to steal all the gold when Port Royal becomes visible. They attack Tony, leaving him hospitalized and steal his research material in their quest to find the rumored pirate's gold.

Tony escapes the hospital, and arranges passage to the island. He is forced to take Joan with him, and she is disgruntled having been forced to accompany an exhibition whose theory she finds unlikely.

The ruins are now visible as predicted and the criminals obtain the treasure. The two groups happen to meet and are suddenly attacked by giant crabs. Volcanoes begin to erupt as the two groups fight for the treasure and to escape the now sinking city.

####The Postman (film)####

In 2013, an unnamed nomad wanders the scattered communities of the Utah flatlands, trading performances of long-forgotten Shakespearean plays for food and water. At one town, the nomad is forced at gunpoint into the ranks of the Holnists, a neo-fascist militia, and is branded on his shoulder with their symbol, a figure 8. The Holnists, under their leader, General Bethlehem, are the de facto authority in the area, collecting tribute and recruits from local towns. Bethlehem is impressed with the nomad's knowledge of classic literature, referring to the nomad as Shakespeare, and each quote's lines from his plays. When the nomad escapes from the Holnists, he takes refuge in a long-deceased postman's mail vehicle.

With the postman's uniform and mail bag, he arrives in the settlement of Pineview claiming to be from the newly-restored U.S. government based in Minneapolis and led by President Richard Starkey. He convinces Pineview's leader, Sheriff Briscoe, to let him in by showing a letter addressed to elderly villager Irene March. The postman inspires a teenager named Ford Lincoln Mercury, who asks to be sworn in as a member of the postal service and even helps him set up a post office for the town. The postman also meets spouses Abby and Michael who are unable to conceive a child. He fulfills their clinical request to impregnate her. When the postman leaves for the town of Benning, he carries a pile of mail left at the post office door by the townspeople.

During a raid of Pineview, General Bethlehem learns of the postman's tales of a restored government and becomes afraid of losing power if word spreads. He has the post office burned to the ground, kills Michael and Briscoe, abducts Abby, and raids Benning looking for the postman. The postman surrenders, but Bethlehem does not recognize him since he has shaved off his thick beard. As the postman is about to be executed Abby saves him, and the two escape into the surrounding mountains. A pregnant Abby and an injured postman ride out the winter in an abandoned cabin. When spring arrives, they leave and run into a girl, who claims to be a postal carrier. She reveals that Mercury has kept the postal service alive by recruiting other carriers and building more post offices. They have established communications with other settlements, creating a quasi-society and inadvertently spreading hope. The postman discovers that Mercury has been forging letters from the postman and reading them to his recruits as a motivational tool.

Bethlehem continues to hunt and capture postal carriers, all of whom are executed and displayed publicly. Feeling responsible, the postman writes his own fake letter from President Starkey, ordering the postman back to Minneapolis and that the postal service is to be disbanded. The postman also writes a letter to Bethlehem revealing the truth of his letter carrier deception. However, Bethlehem learns to his dismay that the postman's example has spread farther than he could have anticipated when his men capture a carrier from California, and he redoubles his efforts to find the postman. The postman and Abby, closely followed by young carriers Eddie, Ponytail, and Billy, travel to Bridge City. When Bethlehem's scouts catch up, the mayor helps the postman kill the Holnists and then escape on a cable car, urging him to find others willing to resist Bethlehem. Before leaving, he and Abby reciprocate their feelings and fall in love.

The mounted carriers and Holnists meet across a field from each other. The postman and a small contingent meet with Bethlehem under a white flag of truce to discuss the coming battle. To Bethlehem's surprise, the postman challenges him for leadership of the Holnists. As only branded members can challenge for leadership, Bethlehem dismisses him. The postman then rips off the sleeve of his shirt revealing the figure 8 brand of the clan, causing Bethlehem to angrily question who he really is and how he got the brand. The postman then recites a line from King Henry V's speech prior to the siege of Harfleur, and Bethlehem realizes that the postman is actually the thespian nomad who he called Shakespeare. Bethlehem and the postman engage in a brutal fight to the death, with the postman eventually winning, and he spares Bethlehem's life to maintain morale. Bethlehem tries to shoot the postman in the back with his revolver, but he is shot dead by his own second-in-command, Col. Getty. Getty then surrenders, and the rest of the Holnists follow his lead. As the postman is now the leader of their clan, he issues new orders that the Holnists will from then on help people rebuild society and protect the weak.

Thirty years later, the postman's grown daughter Hope, accompanied by other public figures and servicemen (including postal workers), speaks at a ceremony unveiling a bronze statue by territorial waters in St. Rose, Oregon in tribute to her father, who has recently died (1973–2043). Her speech, along with the fact that all the attendees are wearing modern clothing and using technology, reveal that the postman and his mail carriers' actions have helped rebuild the United States.

####Power Rangers (film)####

In the Cenozoic era, a team of warriors known as the Power Rangers are tasked with protecting life on Earth and the Zeo Crystal. The Green Ranger, Rita Repulsa, betrays them and plans to dominate the universe. The Red Ranger, Zordon, survives Rita's attack and hides five of the Power Coins. He orders Alpha 5, his robotic assistant, to perform a meteor strike that kills him, the dinosaurs, and sends Rita to the bottom of the sea, foiling her scheme.

Sixty-five million years later in the town of Angel Grove, high school football star Jason Scott is dismissed from the team and placed under house arrest after a prank led to a car crash while escaping the police. In detention, he encounters autistic class nerd Billy Cranston and former cheerleader Kimberly Hart. Billy is placed in detention after experimenting explosives using his lunchbox while Kimberly is placed in detention for cyberbullying. After defending Billy from a bully, Billy offers to deactivate Jason's ankle monitor for help at an old gold mine that evening. Once there, Jason leaves to explore and runs into Kimberly. Billy detonates explosives to break some rock, attracting the attention of Jason, Kimberly and nearby students Trini Kwan and Zack Taylor. The five discover the Power Coins and each take one. While escaping mine security, their car is hit by a train. The five find themselves at home Monday morning and discover that the coins have granted them superhuman abilities. Elsewhere, Rita's body is found. Waking, she goes on a rampage, hunting pieces of gold to raise her minion Goldar to find the Zeo Crystal.

The five teenagers return to the mine and discover an ancient spaceship where they meet Alpha 5 and Zordon's consciousness. They inform the teenagers about the Rangers' history and Rita, warning that they have less than two weeks until Rita has her full power, finds the Zeo Crystal, and uses it to destroy life on Earth. Zordon pleads with Jason to convince the team to help.

The five spend the next week training against simulated Putties and trying to morph, to little success. To inspire the Rangers, Alpha reveals the Zords. Zack takes his Zord out for a joyride and almost kills the other Rangers when he crashes it. This angers Jason, and they fight. While trying to separate the two, Billy spontaneously morphs. However, when he becomes conscious of it, the armor disappears. Angered at their lack of progress, Zordon dismisses the group. Jason returns to the ship to confront Zordon and discovers that once the Rangers morph, it will open the Morphing Grid and allow Zordon to restore himself to a physical body. Feeling betrayed, Jason accuses Zordon of bringing the team together for the sole purpose of escaping the Grid. That night, the team camp at the mine and bond with each other.

Later that night, Rita attacks Trini and orders her to bring the Rangers to the docks. Trini informs them about Rita and they arrive to fight but are quickly defeated. Rita forces Billy to reveal the location of the Zeo Crystal, which he figured out is under a Krispy Kreme, kills him, and releases the others. The Rangers take Billy's body to the ship and ask Zordon to resurrect him, but he says he is unable to do so. The Rangers agree they would give their lives for each other and resolve to defeat Rita. In doing so, they unlock the Morphing Grid. Zordon revives Billy, sacrificing ever being able to restore his physical self. With the team restored and confident, the Rangers morph into their armor.

Rita creates Goldar, raises an army of Putties, and attacks Angel Grove to find the Zeo Crystal. The Rangers battle the Putties and head to Angel Grove in their Zords. After the Rangers destroy the Putties, Goldar pushes the Rangers and their Zords into a fiery pit. In the pit, the Zords combine and form the Megazord. Rita merges with Goldar. The Rangers battle and destroy Goldar. After refusing Jason's offer to surrender, a defiant Rita tells the Rangers that more will come for the Zeo  Crystal and leaps at the Megazord only to be slapped into space. The Rangers are praised as local heroes, and with Rita defeated, they return to their normal lives while keeping their new powers.

Back at school, the teacher announces that Tommy Oliver will be joining them, but the desk is empty save for a green jacket.efn|In the source material, Tommy Oliver was a male, but the cast of the film and the actor who played Oliver in the source material expressed interest in a female version of the character in a sequel.

####The Predator (film)####

A Predator ship crash-lands on Earth. U.S. Army Ranger sniper Quinn McKenna and his team are attacked by the Predator while on a hostage retrieval mission. McKenna incapacitates the Predator and has parts of its armor sent off by mail to prove the existence of extraterrestrial life. Government agent Will Traeger has McKenna captured and held for examination. Traeger also takes the Predator to a lab for experimentation and observation, recruiting evolutionary biologist Casey Bracket to study it, who discovers that the Predator's genetic makeup contains human DNA. The Predator awakens, breaks out of its restraints, and kills the lab workers and armed guards, but spares Bracket, the only unarmed person, before escaping.

McKenna is bussed off with a group of other government captives, including former Marines "Nebraska" Williams, Coyle, Baxley, Lynch, and Army helicopter pilot Nettles. Witnessing the Predator's escape from the lab, they hijack the bus. Taking Bracket with them, they head over to McKenna's estranged wife, Emily, where he expects to find the Predator armor he mailed off. However, Rory, McKenna's autistic son, has gone trick-or-treating in the armor in hopes of avoiding detection from bullies.

McKenna and the others find his son in time to stop a pair of Predator Hounds from ambushing the boy. McKenna blows one up by shooting a grenade into its mouth; Nebraska unintentionally lobotomizes the other dog after shooting it in the head. The Predator chases them into a nearby school and they start to give the Predator's armor back when a larger, more powerful Predator arrives and engages the first in combat. The group flees, and the second Predator kills the first before setting out to retrieve the lost technology.

Bracket concludes that the Predators are attempting to improve themselves with the DNA of humans and, presumably, other planets' inhabitants. She mentions that the larger Predator generates an exoskeleton that renders him resistant to damage, even from weapons of Predator technology. The team flees to an abandoned barn, but Traeger finds and captures them, and shares his theory that the Predators anticipate that climate change will end their ability to retrieve human DNA for further hybridization, and as such are scrambling to retrieve samples before it is too late. Seeing Rory drawing a map to the spaceship, Traeger takes the boy to the ship. The team escapes and goes after him with the help of the now docile, brain-damaged Predator hound.

Once all have arrived at the crashed ship, the second Predator arrives, kills Lynch, and explains through translation software that it will destroy the ship to keep it out of their hands and then give them all a head start before it hunts them down. The Predator quickly kills several of Traeger's soldiers while mortally wounding Baxley and Coyle, who then euthanize each other. Traeger tries to use a Predator weapon on the alien but accidentally kills himself instead.

The Predator takes Rory, assuming his autism as an advancement in human evolution which makes him a worthwhile subject for hybridization, and flies away in his ship. McKenna, Nebraska, and Nettles land on the ship's exterior, but the Predator activates a force field that slices off Nettles' legs, and he falls off the ship to his death. Nebraska sacrifices himself and slides into the ship's turbine, causing it to crash. McKenna sneaks into the ship as it crashes and attacks the Predator. After the crash, Bracket arrives, and the three manage to overpower and kill the Predator with its weapons. They pay their respects to their fallen comrades with trinkets representing each one before heading off.

Later, McKenna and Rory are seen in a science lab watching the opening of cargo found on the Predator's ship, which a scientist indicates was left behind intentionally. A piece of technology floats out and attaches itself to a lab worker, working as a transformative "Predator killer" suit before deactivating. Realizing the first Predator was trying to pass it on to humanity for a fair fight against the larger Predators, McKenna indicates he will be the pilot to operate the suit.

####Predators (film)####

Royce awakens to find himself free falling into an unfamiliar jungle and meets several others who arrive in the same manner: Los Zetas cartel enforcer Cuchillo, Spetsnaz soldier Nikolai, IDF sniper Isabelle, RUF officer Mombasa, San Quentin death row inmate Stans, Yakuza member Hanzo, and physician Edwin. The group follows Royce, whom Isabelle suspects is a former black operations soldier turned mercenary. In the jungle, they find a strange monument, empty cages, and deadfall traps set by a deceased Green Beret. Reaching higher ground, they find themselves staring at an alien sky and realize they are not on Earth.

After surviving an attack from a pack of quadrupedal alien beasts, Royce deduces they are on a moon used as a game preserve, where humans and other species are hunted. Cuchillo is killed, and his body is used to lure the survivors into a trap, which they avoid. The group follows the beasts' tracks to a camp and finds a captive Predator. Their hunters, three larger Predators known as "Tracker", "Berserker" and "Falconer", attack the group, killing Mombasa while the others escape. Isabelle recognizes the Predator as matching the description of a similar creature that killed a special operations team in 1987 in Guatemala, but was defeated by a single survivor.<!--Schaeffer's name is never mentioned in the film, so it should not be mentioned in this summary.-->efn|As depicted in the first film "Predator".

The group encounters Ronald Noland, a solitary U.S. Air Cavalry soldier who has survived on the moon for "ten seasons" by hiding and scavenging from the Predators and their victims. He takes the group to his hideout and explains that the Predators hunt in threes, sharpening their killing skills by abducting worthy prey from other worlds and bringing them to the planet. Noland also reveals that there is a blood feud between the Predators. Royce devises a plan to free the captive Predator, hoping it will take them home.

Having gone mad, Noland traps the others and attempts to use smoke to suffocate them, hoping to kill them for their equipment. Royce uses an explosive to attract the Predators to the hideout. Noland is killed by the "Tracker", who releases the group. In the ensuing chase, Nikolai sacrifices himself to kill the "Tracker" and save Edwin. The survivors are intercepted by the "Berserker", but Stans distracts it, allowing the others to escape before he is killed. Hanzo stays behind to duel the "Falconer" with a katana he took from Noland's stash, killing it before dying from his wounds.

Royce, Isabelle, and Edwin continue to head for the Predators' camp, hoping to enact Royce's plan, until Edwin is injured by a trap. When Isabelle refuses to abandon him, Royce leaves them both behind. They are caught by the "Berserker", who traps them in a pit and continues to the camp. Royce frees the captive Predator in exchange for transport to Earth. The Predator dons its armor and activates the ship with its wrist computer, setting a course for Earth. Royce runs to the ship as the "Berserker" arrives, eventually overpowering and decapitating the other Predator before using its own wrist computer to destroy the ship, seemingly killing Royce. Edwin paralyzes Isabelle using neurotoxic poison from a plant he found earlier and reveals he is a serial killer and his intention to stay on the planet. Royce appears and uses the poison on Edwin before booby-trapping him with grenades to use him as bait to injure the "Berserker". With Isabelle's help, Royce defeats and decapitates the "Berserker". Seeing more parachutes in the distance and surmising more Predators are arriving, the pair head into the jungle.

####Race to Witch Mountain####
####Ready Player One (film)####
####Rebel Moon####
####The Reluctant Astronaut####
In the mid-1960s, Roy Fleming is fairground operator of a kiddie-spaceship ride in Sweetwater, Missouri. Despite being 35 years old, he still lives with his parents and suffers from extreme acrophobia (fear of heights). His father, Arbuckle "Buck" Fleming, a World War I veteran, wants better things for his son, so he sends an application to NASA.  Roy later learns from his mother that NASA has accepted him as a "WB-1074," which, unbeknownst to the Flemings, is a janitorial job.

When Roy arrives at the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston, Roy accepts the disappointment of his job and unsuccessfully tries to explain things to his family back home, who believe that he is an astronaut. Meanwhile, he is befriended by veteran astronaut Major Fred Gifford. When Buck and his pals make a surprise visit to Houston, Roy dons Gifford's space suit in an effort to fool his domineering father. The ruse fails after Roy wreaks havoc on NASA's equipment, ultimately resulting in his termination after an unauthorized rocket sled ride. Buck returns to Missouri embarrassed and disappointed.

To tout the reliability of their automated spacecraft, the Russians plan to send an untrained civilian into space within 48 hours. NASA moves quickly to beat the Russian timeline with its own counterpart. Gifford suggests Roy and finds him in a local bar. Roy's acrophobia makes him a reluctant participant, but the launch is successful. National newscasts inform Roy's family and his girlfriend, Ellie, of his mission. Buck believes Roy's janitorial job was a cover for security purposes. During some eating experiments, Roy inadvertently gets peanut butter into the guidance system and is in danger of being marooned in space. He remembers the retro rockets speech from his role as "Mr. Spaceman" on the amusement park ride and launches them, bringing the capsule safely home. Roy is hailed as a hero, and marries Ellie. As the plane carrying Roy and Ellie to their honeymoon destination takes off from Sweetwater, Roy is seen hiding in bushes, afraid to board the plane, and hoping Ellie has a good time.

####Retroactive (film)####
####Return from Witch Mountain####
####The Return of Captain Nemo####
####Rim of the World####
Long plot|date=February 2022 <!--- massively bloated 900 word "synopsis" versus 400-700 word norm --->
Alex, a socially reclusive boy who recently lost his father in a fire, reluctantly attends a summer camp in southern California called "Rim of the World". He meets two other "misfits" - Zhen Zhen, an initially mute, adorable orphan girl from China, and Dariush, an outspoken boy from a rich family. One afternoon, while waiting to go canoeing in a lake, Zhen Zhen wanders off into the woods, looking for the lookout point she had seen on a camp poster, while Alex attempts to follow. He comes across Dariush, who happens to be nearby answering the call of nature. Dariush mistakenly tries to 'cure' Alex's fear of heights by making him stand near a cliff edge, and Gabriel, a boy they hadn't seen at camp before, intervenes. Zhen Zhen, hearing the commotion, comes back down and meets up with the boys. At that moment, they all receive alarming texts advising they immediately evacuate the area.

While hurrying back, they find out that other campers have left the lake, and they witness alien ships invading the valley. The kids head back to the camp, and afterward discover the camp to be empty of people - all except for Conrad, a camp counselor. Suddenly, a Dragon spacecraft fleeing the International Space Station lands heavily nearby. The dying astronaut inside the spacecraft gives Alex a key, with instructions that it should be taken to NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab (JPL) facility in Pasadena, and that it was the only way to destroy the aliens. An alien appears with its "dog" and kills the astronaut. Alex and his friends try to hide out and Conrad gets killed, but the kids manage to elude the aliens and escape the camp.

They make their way to the sheriff's office and discover an inmate, Lou, who has been left behind in the cells. Lou claims to have a son waiting for him, so an empathetic Alex decides to release him before the group continues on their way to JPL. Later, the group encounters Marines who are evacuating civilians. The commander gratefully takes the key and puts the children on a bus to safety. However, alien ships attack the vehicle convoy and the soldiers are killed, whereupon Alex retrieves the key from the dying commander and the group sets out for JPL once more. During the night, after briefly taking refuge in Gabriel's old house, Gabriel explains that he is an escapee from juvie, where he was placed due to a misunderstanding at his mother's store, in which a customer assumed Gabriel was attempting to steal his change at the deposit box, unaware of Gabriel's dyscalculia. Sometime after, they are attacked by a gang of masked individuals, led by Lou, who reveals himself as a murderous thief and tricked the group into releasing him. He agrees to let the kids go, but only if Alex gives him the key, which Lou thinks he can sell on the black market. Alex refuses and Lou attempts to kill Alex with a knife, but right before Lou attacks him, the alien from the camp appears and attacks them all. Lou and his men are killed, but the kids manage to escape after trapping the alien in a backyard swimming pool.

While they are walking in the forest, Dariush and Gabriel fight and Dariush reveals that his father lost their car dealership, meaning he will go to jail, hence the reason why Dariush was placed at camp. Suddenly, they receive on their transmitter an S.O.S. from the doctor at JPL they were instructed to give the key to, encouraging them to move forward with their journey. The kids walk into a mall and change clothes. After that, the group takes a Ford Mustang in the parking lot, which they discover Zhen Zhen is able to drive, to quickly journey the rest of the way to JPL, but they are again attacked by the pursuing alien. They abandon the vehicle while trying to escape the alien and realize that they left the key in the car. Dariush attempts to go alone to get the key, only to be injured by the alien in the process, but manages to get away with the key. The group finally make it to the JPL facility, but find that the doctor is dead, and his S.O.S. message was only a result of his blood dripping onto his transmitter. The kids are able to make radio contact with a general at NORAD, who explains that the key holds information that can be used to destroy the alien mothership in orbit via a Cold War defense project named Excalibur. Zhen Zhen goes into the basement to start the emergency generators, where she is attacked by an alien dog, while Alex goes to the roof to realign the communication dish, where he is attacked by the alien. Zhen Zhen manages to lock the dog in the basement and returns to the command room to help Gabriel and the injured Dariush insert the keys that will launch the Excalibur weapon.

Zhen Zhen, Dariush, and Gabriel evacuate the JPL building, while Alex lures the alien into an engine test room and kills it with the engine's exhaust. The teens watch from the ground as the alien mothership is blown up in the atmosphere. Alex is reunited with his mother and the children are celebrated as heroes.

####Rogue One####
####Scooby-Doo! & Batman: The Brave and the Bold####
Mystery Incorporated investigates a series of thefts performed by the ghost of Puppetto the Puppeteer and his puppet. As they try to capture the spirit, Batman intervenes, warning them to leave things to the professionals. Fred manages to capture Puppetto and the puppet, and Mystery Inc. deduces their identities of Martian Manhunter and Detective Chimp. Batman, Manhunter, and Detective Chimp reveal that the Puppetto mystery was an initiation test for Mystery Inc. to join the Mystery Analysts of Gotham, which they accept. Unbeknownst to the heroes, they are observed by a red-cloaked figure.

A week later, Batman foils a gold robbery by Riddler, Catwoman and Killer Croc with help from The Question and Aquaman. Aquaman expresses interest in joining the Analysts but is rejected for not being a detective. Mystery Inc. arrives at the Analysts' headquarters, meeting Question, Black Canary and Plastic Man, as well as a tagalong Aquaman. Mystery Inc. is asked to take the lead in the next case for the Analysts. When an alarm sounds from Gotham Chemical Storage, the assembled Analysts head for the warehouse, finding that several vials of a radioactive isotope have been stolen. The red-cloaked figure appears, declaring himself to be the Crimson Cloak, and swears revenge on Batman and Gotham for making him into a ghost. Crimson Cloak sets the storage on fire, but the Analysts escape the blast with Plastic Man's help.

While the Analysts extinguish the fire, Batman sends Mystery Inc. to a diner to rejoin them later. Believing it to be connected to the Crimson Cloak, Batman discloses his single unsolved case; during his first year of crime-fighting, he attempted to stop Professor Milo from experimenting with an unstable teleporter but was unable to stop the vortex from killing one of Milo's assistants, Leo Scarlett. Batman and Mystery Inc. conclude the likely suspect behind the Crimson Cloak to be Sam Scarlett or Riddler, after Daphne deduces him to be Milo's second assistant under the alias of "Wade Magny".

Following this lead, Batman and Mystery Inc. travel to Arkham Asylum, where Riddler confirms their suspicions and advises them to check Arkham's cemetery. As Batman and Mystery Inc. begin to leave, Crimson Cloak appears and releases the inmates Clock King, Harley Quinn, Killer Croc, Mr. Freeze, Poison Ivy, and Two-Face from their cells, although Batman manages to re-imprison them. At the cemetery, Batman and Mystery Inc. discover the remains of Leo's jacket and a clay footprint. As they return to the Mystery Machine, they are intercepted by Harvey Bullock and the Analysts, who attempt to arrest them for the isotope theft due to fake evidence planted in the van. Batman and Mystery Inc. escape. In No Man's Land, Scooby-Doo and Shaggy throw off Bane and Blockbuster. Upon crashing into a villain bar, they run afoul of Joker and Penguin who transport their fellow Gotham's villains in their respectful vehicles. Batman summons the Batmobile to have Mystery Inc. escape into it.

After escaping the Analysts who beat up the villains, Batman takes Mystery Inc. to the Batcave. After watching Bullock's press conference about Mystery Inc., he leaves them there while he investigates Milo's old laboratory. Aquaman and Question, refusing to believe the false accusations made against Mystery Inc., join Batman and find Milo's teleporter restored by Crimson Cloak. Crimson Cloak attacks them, seemingly killing Question and capturing Batman and Aquaman. Within the Batcave, Velma attempts to analyze the clay footprint only for it to suddenly come to life and attack. After overcoming it using a Bat-Dehydrator, Mystery Inc. deduces the Crimson Cloak's true identity for themselves.

Realizing that Batman has been captured by the Cloak, Mystery Inc. equips themselves with the old costumes and gadgets of Batman and his former sidekicks, and arrives to save Batman. Crimson Cloak shapeshifts into Batman's other enemies to stop them, but Mystery Inc. manages to incapacitate him with the Dehydrator and shut down the teleporter. Mystery Inc. exposes the Cloak as Clayface, who admits to stealing the isotopes and restoring the teleporter in exchange for a cure for the gradual decay of his body as Bullock has Clayface taken to Blackgate Penitentiary. Batman deduces that Riddler was the one who hired Clayface, leaving a clay duplicate of himself in Arkham. He then unmasks Question to reveal Riddler, having realized that he swapped places with the real Question due to one of Aquaman's observations.

Now exposed, Riddler escapes into the lab, followed by Mystery Inc and the Analysts. He reactivates the teleporter and prepares to use it as a superweapon to destroy Gotham, only to be knocked out by the real Question. The vortex grows out of control, but at the same time, a human shape begins to manifest in it. Working together, Mystery Inc. and the Analysts reverse the device's polarity, allowing Batman and Scooby-Doo to free the figure from the vortex before the teleporter self-destructs. The figure is revealed to be Leo Scarlett, having been trapped in an interdimensional void.

Leo is reunited with his father. Riddler and his henchmen are arrested by the police. Batman thanks Mystery Inc. for their help before taking off into the night.

####See You Yesterday####
C.J. Walker is an ambitious black science prodigy who, alongside her best friend Sebastian 'Bash' Thomas, is working together on building a time machine. Their first attempt, in which their backpacks catch fire and ultimately don't work, is right before the last day of school.

C.J. and Bash's last class before the summer is with their science teacher Mr. Lockhart (fittingly played by Back to the Future's Michael J. Fox). As the teens are aspiring to present their last class project at the Science Expo on the week of July 5th, she asks him to raise their project grade from a B+ to an A to greater impress potential scouts. He invites her to contemplate the ramifications of time travel, the ethical and philosophical conundrum that it could cause.

The pair successfully achieve time travel, going back 24 hours. Although they are aware there could be repercutions with changing the future, C.J. seeks revenge on her ex-boyfriend Jared by pranking him. When he gives chase he is hit by a car, luckily only breaking his arm and not killing him. Bash chews her out, as they narrowly miss seeing themselves and almost don't get back to the future in time.

Back in the future, when July 4th arrives, Calvin and his friend Dennis leave a party after Jared confronts him over C.J. As they are walking away, two other black men bump into them rushing down the street. Shortly after a police car approaches, the officers are suspicious of them. Mistaking them for the real thieves they had been chasing, Calvin is shot dead.

Grieving after the funeral, when her mother says if she could turn back time she would, C.J. insists on going back a second time. Although Bash is very concerned with the risk they run to alter history again, he doesn't want her to go alone. They plan to reroute Calvin and Dennis before the shooting, but Jared spots and chases them for breaking his arm. The detour causes them to arrive too late to save Calvin.

They try a third time, and have to enlist their classmate Eduardo's help and borrow his highly resilient circuit boards. This time, C.J. decides that she and Bash thwart the convenience store robbery thus avoiding the police chase entirely. Bash fears something bad could happen as there are usually guns involved. C.J. warns the shop owner who pulls a gun, there is a shootout and Bash is caught in the crossfire. As she follows her dying friend out of the shop, Bash from a previous trip catches sight of her and comes over. He sees himself dying on the sidewalk then disappears as this timeline's Bash dies.

Now, after Bash's funeral his grandmother has a nervous breakdown. Calvin approaches C.J. as he finds the memorial card from his own funeral and she's acting oddly. Forced to tell the truth, she tells him everything. She has to return alone as Bash's backpack has self-destructed. They get Eduardo to help reinforce her circuit board.

This time on C.J.'s 4th time going back, with the 3rd timeline Bash confused as to why she has seemingly tanked the convenience store robbery thwarting, gets to her brother and Dennis earlier. However it takes time to convince him, so the trigger-happy cop drives up. Calvin lets slip that he has nothing to do with the robbery, so all four are thrown to the ground. When he realises the others could get killed, he sacrifices himself.

Again back in the future, Bash confronts C.J. and demands to know how many times she's gone back. She finally admits this last time was the fourth as he'd died on the 3rd. He forbids her to try again, but she renegs.

The film ends with her back in time alone, breaking into a run.

####Serenity (2005 film)####
In the 26th century, humanity has colonized a new solar system. The central planets formed the Alliance and won a war against the outer planet Independents who resisted joining the Alliance. River Tam is conditioned by Alliance scientists into becoming a psychic and an assassin but is soon rescued by her brother Dr. Simon Tam. During her training, River inadvertently read the minds of several top government officials and learned their secrets. Consequently, an Alliance agent known only as the Operative is tasked with recapturing her.

The siblings have found refuge aboard the transport spaceship "Serenity" with Captain Malcolm "Mal" Reynolds, first mate Zoe Washburne, pilot Hoban "Wash" Washburne, mercenary Jayne Cobb, and mechanic Kaylee Frye. Despite Simon's objections, Mal brings River on a bank robbery. River warns them that savage and cannibalistic Reavers are coming. They escape, but Simon decides he and River will leave "Serenity" at the next port. Once there, however, a subliminal message in a television commercial causes River to attack numerous bar patrons, and Mal takes the siblings back aboard the ship. The crew contacts reclusive hacker Mr. Universe, who discovers the message designed to trigger River's mental conditioning. He notes River whispered "Miranda" before attacking and warns that someone else has viewed the footage.

Mal receives an invitation from Inara Serra. Realising it is a trap, Mal goes to confront the Operative who promises to let him go free if he hands over River. Mal barely escapes. Miranda is discovered to be a planet located beyond a region of space swarming with Reavers. The crew flies to the planet Haven but find it devastated and their friend Shepherd Book mortally wounded. The Operative promises to kill anyone who assists them until he gets River.

Mal has the crew disguise "Serenity" as a Reaver ship and they travel to Miranda undetected. They find its 30 million colonists dead, and a recording that explains an experimental chemical to suppress aggression had been added into Miranda's atmosphere. The population became so docile they stopped performing all activities of daily living and placidly died. A small proportion of them had the opposite reaction and became insanely aggressive and violent. The Alliance had created the Reavers and this was the secret in River's subconscious.

Mr. Universe agrees to broadcast the recording. However, the Operative kills him and prepares an ambush. Knowing this, the crew provoke the Reaver fleet into chasing them toward the Alliance armada. The Reavers and Alliance battle while Wash pilots "Serenity" through the crossfire. He crash lands near the broadcast tower before being fatally impaled by a Reaver spear.

The crew make a last stand against the Reavers to buy Mal time to broadcast the recording. The crew retreats behind a set of blast doors that fail to properly close. Simon is shot, and River dives through the doors to throw back Simon's medical kit and close the doors before the Reavers drag her away. At the transmitter, Mal fights the Operative, finally subduing him and forcing him to watch as the recording is broadcast. Mal returns to the crew. The blast doors open to reveal that River has killed all the Reavers. The Operative orders the Alliance troops to stand down.

The Operative provides medical aid and resources to repair "Serenity." He tells Mal the broadcast has weakened the Alliance government, but while he will try to convince the Parliament that River and Simon are no longer threats, he warns that they may continue their pursuit in retribution for getting the word out. "Serenity" takes off, with River as Mal's new pilot.

####Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow####
In a technologically advanced 1939, the zeppelin "Hindenburg III" moors itself atop the Empire State Building. Aboard the airship is Dr. Jorge Vargas, a scientist who arranges for a package containing two vials to be delivered to Dr. Walter Jennings. Afterwards, Dr. Vargas vanishes.

Polly Perkins, a reporter for "The Chronicle", is looking into the disappearances of Vargas and five other renowned scientists. A cryptic message leads her to Radio City Music Hall, against the warnings of her editor, Mr. Paley, where she meets Dr. Jennings during a showing of "The Wizard of Oz." He tells her that a Dr. Totenkopf is coming for him next. Suddenly, mysterious giant robots attack the city. The authorities call for "Sky Captain" Joe Sullivan, the city's hero, Perkins' former lover, and the commander of the private air force the Flying Legion. While Joe engages the robots with his modified Curtiss P-40 pursuit fighter, Perkins photographs from the street with little regard for her safety. He eventually manages to disable one robot; the rest leave thereafter. News reports show similar attacks around the globe. The disabled robot is taken back to the Legion's air base so that technology expert Dex can examine it. Polly follows and persuades Joe to reluctantly let her in on the investigation. Her information takes them to the ransacked laboratory of a dying Dr. Jennings, while an assassin escapes. Just before he dies, Jennings gives Polly the two vials and states that they are crucial to Totenkopf's plans. Polly hides the vials and withholds the information from Joe. They return to the Legion's base just before it comes under attack from squadrons of ornithopter drones. Dex tracks the origin of the signal controlling the drones and notes it on a map before his capture.

Joe and Polly find Dex's map and fly to Nepal and then Tibet, where they discover an abandoned mining outpost and meet Joe's old friend Kaji. Two guides working for Totenkopf force Polly to turn over the vials, locking the duo in a room full of dynamite. Joe and Polly manage to escape just before the room explodes, knocking them unconscious and destroying most of Polly's film. They wake up together in the mythical Shangri-La. The Tibetan-speaking monks there tell of Totenkopf's enslavement of their people, forcing them to work in the uranium mines. Most were killed by the radiation, but the final survivor provides a clue to where Dr. Totenkopf is hiding. With insufficient fuel to make it there, they run into a Royal Navy flying aircraft carrier commanded by another of Joe's former flames, Commander Franky Cook. Franky leads the attack on Totenkopf's island lair while Joe and Polly enter through an underwater inlet. Joe and Polly find themselves on an island with dinosaur-like creatures, which Polly hesitates to photograph as she has only two shots left. They find a secret subterranean facility in a mountain, where robots are loading animals, as well as the mysterious vials, onto a large "Noah's Ark" rocket. Joe and Polly are detected but Dex, piloting a flying barge, arrives with three of the missing scientists. They explain that Totenkopf has given up on humanity and seeks to start the world over again: the "World of Tomorrow". The vials are genetic material for a new Adam and Eve; if the rocket reaches space, the afterburners will ignite the atmosphere and kill everyone on Earth.

As the group attempts to enter Dr. Totenkopf's lair, one scientist is electrocuted by the defense system. A hologram of Totenkopf appears, speaking of his hate for humanity and his plans to rebuild it as a new master race. Dex disables the lair's defenses and the group discovers Totenkopf's mummified corpse inside with a scrap of paper clutched in his hand: "forgive me". He died 20 years previously, but his machines have continued his plan. Joe decides to sabotage the rocket from the inside while the others escape. Polly tries to tag along but Joe kisses her and then knocks her out. Polly recovers, following Joe and saving him from Dr. Jennings' assassin, a female robot. Joe and Polly then board the rocket. Before the rocket reaches 100&nbsp;km, when its second stage is scheduled to fire and thereby incinerate the Earth, Polly pushes an emergency button that ejects all the animals in escape pods. Joe tries to disable the rocket only to be interrupted by the same assassin robot. He jolts the robot with its electric weapon and then uses it on the controls, disabling the rocket. Joe and Polly use the last pod to save themselves as the rocket explodes. Joe and Polly watch the animal pods splash down around their escape pod, while Commander Cook leads a group of flying aircraft carriers towards them. Polly then uses the last shot on her camera to take a picture of Joe rather than the animal pods. Joe notes that she had forgotten to take the lens cap off.

####Solarbabies####
In a bleak post-apocalyptic future, most of Earth's water has been placed under containment by the Eco Protectorate, a paramilitary organization, who governs the planet's new order. Orphan children, mostly teenagers, live in orphanages created by the Protectorate, designed to indoctrinate new recruits into their service. The orphans play a rough sport which is a hybrid of lacrosse and roller-hockey. Playing is the only thing that unites them other than the futile attempts of the Protectorate to control them. These orphans are Jason, the group's leader (Jason Patric), Terra (Jami Gertz), Tug (Peter DeLuise), Rabbit (Claude Brooks), Metron (James LeGros), and a young deaf boy named Daniel (Lukas Haas).

While hiding in a cave, Daniel finds a mysterious orb with special powers. The orb is an alien intelligence called Bodhi, who miraculously restores Daniel's hearing and has other powers, such as creating rain indoors. Another orphan, Darstar (Adrian Pasdar), takes the orb, hoping that he will be able to use it. He leaves the orphanage on roller skates and Daniel soon follows. The rest of the group chase after Daniel. The E-police learn of Bodhi while chasing the teens and catch Darstar with the sphere. The teens are eventually rescued by a band of older outlaws called the Eco Warriors. They have retired from fighting and are led by Terra's long-lost father, Greentree (Frank Converse). The teens leave the Eco Warriors and using their roller skating skills, break into the Protectorate's high security Water Storage Building. The teens discover the E-Police are trying to destroy Bodhi and they manage to recover the alien, but as soon as they do the sphere dematerializes and destroys the facility, releasing the water back to where it belongs as they rush out. As they all gather on a nearby hillside, Bodhi sparks the first thunderstorm the teens have ever seen and returns to space, but not without leaving a bit of himself behind in each of them.

Ultimately, in the closing credits, the orphans are seen swimming together in the newly-restored ocean, Darstar being fully accepted into the group and Jason and Terra sharing a kiss.

####Sonic the Hedgehog 2 (film)####
Roughly eight months after defeating Dr. Robotnik,efn|As depicted in "Sonic the Hedgehog" (2020) Sonic attempts to help the public as a vigilante hero with little success. Tom advises Sonic to remain patient for the day his powers will be needed before he and Maddie depart for Rachel's wedding in Hawaii.

Sonic plans to have fun while home alone but is attacked by Robotnik, who has escaped the mushroom planet with the help of a powerful anthropomorphic echidna named Knuckles. To honor his ancestors, Knuckles demands the location of the legendary Master Emerald, an ancient relic that grants its user immense power and the ability to change reality to their will.

Sonic is rescued by Miles "Tails" Prower, an anthropomorphic two-tailed fox who idolizes him and comes to warn him about Knuckles. Sonic convinces Tails to help him find the Master Emerald, while Robotnik reunites with his assistant Stone and, scheming to steal the emerald, offers to help Knuckles. Journeying through a tundra, Sonic and Tails stop at a bar, where they escape by dancing. They follow clues to a Siberian cave on a map Longclaw gave Sonic before sending him to Earth, where they find a compass within a temple. Robotnik and Knuckles track them and chase Sonic and Tails down a mountain. Knuckles reveals that he lost his father and his whole tribe the same day Sonic lost Longclaw. Despite this brief moment of sympathy, Knuckles and Robotnik steal the compass, though Knuckles begins to question Robotnik's sense of loyalty and honor when he mocks Sonic for choosing to save a wounded Tails instead of the compass.

Tom saves Sonic and Tails by using a ring to teleport them to the wedding. Rachel's fiancé Randall and his wedding guests reveal themselves as undercover agents of the Guardian Units of Nations and arrest Sonic, Tails, and Tom, who are then saved by Maddie and a vengeful Rachel, who reconciles with Randall. Meanwhile, Robotnik and Knuckles find an underwater temple containing the Master Emerald.

Blaming himself for Tails' injuries, Sonic decides to face Robotnik and Knuckles alone and goes to the temple, where he fights with Knuckles to keep him from taking the Master Emerald. Seeing this as an opportunity, Robotnik uses the distraction to seize and fuse himself with the emerald, which explodes and sinks the temple into the water. With no use left for Knuckles, Robotnik betrays him and leaves him, along with Sonic, behind for dead. Working together, Sonic and Knuckles are able to escape just as Tails rescues them in a biplane. In Green Hills, Robotnik uses his new abilities to create a giant robot resembling himself. Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles work together to fight the robot and its accompanying drones and to reclaim the Master Emerald; however, it breaks, splitting into the seven Chaos Emeralds. Tom and Maddie save Sonic, who uses the Chaos Emeralds to transform into Super Sonic. He destroys the robot before dispersing the Emeralds and reverting to normal. In the aftermath, Robotnik is presumed dead, and Knuckles fixes the Master Emerald from the remaining shards before making a pact to protect it from evil with Sonic and Tails, and they start an idyllic life with the Wachowskis.


####A Sound of Thunder (film)####
####The Space Between Us (film)####
####Sphere (1998 film)####
####Star Trek (film)####

In 2233, the Federation starship USS "Kelvin" investigates a "lightning storm" in space. A Romulan ship, "Narada", emerges from the storm and attacks the "Kelvin", then demands that "Kelvin"'s Captain Robau come aboard to negotiate a truce. Robau is questioned about the current stardate and an "Ambassador Spock", whom he does not recognize. "Narada"'s commander, Nero, kills him, and resumes attacking the "Kelvin". George Kirk, "Kelvin"'s first officer, orders the ship's personnel, including his pregnant wife Winona<!-- Kirk-->, to abandon ship while he pilots the "Kelvin" on a collision course with "Narada". Kirk sacrifices his life to ensure Winona's survival as she gives birth to James Tiberius Kirk.

Seventeen years later on the planet Vulcan, a young Spock is admitted to the Vulcan Science Academy. Realizing that the Academy views his human mother, Amanda, as a "disadvantage", he joins Starfleet instead. On Earth, Kirk becomes a reckless but intelligent adult. Following a bar fight with Starfleet cadets accompanying Nyota Uhura, Kirk meets Captain Christopher Pike, who encourages him to enlist in Starfleet Academy, where Kirk meets and befriends doctor Leonard McCoy. Three years later, Commander Spock accuses Kirk of cheating during the "Kobayashi Maru" simulation. Kirk argues that cheating was acceptable because the simulation was designed to be unbeatable. The disciplinary hearing is interrupted by a distress signal from Vulcan. With the primary fleet out of range, the cadets are mobilized. McCoy and Kirk board Pike's ship, the USS|Enterprise|NCC-1701|2.

Realizing that the "lightning storm" observed near Vulcan is similar to the one that occurred when he was born, Kirk convinces Pike that the distress signal is a trap. When the "Enterprise" arrives, they find the fleet destroyed and "Narada" drilling into Vulcan's core. "Narada" attacks "Enterprise" and Pike surrenders, delegating command of the ship to Spock and promoting Kirk to first officer. Kirk, Hikaru Sulu, and Chief Engineer Olson perform a space jump onto the drilling platform. While Olson is killed mid-jump, Kirk and Sulu disable the drill, but are unable to stop Nero launching "red matter" into Vulcan's core, forming an artificial black hole that destroys Vulcan. The "Enterprise" rescues Spock's father, Sarek, and the high council before the planet's destruction, but Amanda falls to her death before the transporter can lock onto her. As "Narada" approaches Earth, Nero tortures Pike to gain access to Earth's defense codes.

Spock maroons Kirk on Delta Vega after he attempts mutiny. On the planet, Kirk encounters an older Spock from an alternate timeline, who explains that he and Nero are from 2387. In the future, Romulus was threatened by a supernova, which Spock attempted to stop with red matter. His plan failed, resulting in Nero's family perishing along with Romulus, while the "Narada" and Spock's vessel were caught in the black hole and sent back in time. They were sent back 25 years apart, during which time Nero attacked the "Kelvin", changing history and creating a parallel universe. After Spock's arrival, Nero stranded him on Delta Vega to watch Vulcan's destruction. Reaching a Starfleet outpost, Kirk and the elder Spock meet Montgomery "Scotty" Scott, who devises a trans-warp transporter system, allowing him and Kirk to beam onto "Enterprise".

Following the elder Spock's advice, Kirk provokes younger Spock into attacking him, forcing Spock to recognize himself as emotionally compromised and relinquish command to Kirk. After talking with Sarek, Spock decides to help Kirk. While "Enterprise" hides within the gas clouds of Titan, Kirk and Spock beam aboard "Narada". Kirk fights Nero and rescues Pike, while Spock uses the elder Spock's ship to destroy the drill. Spock leads "Narada" away from Earth and sets his ship to collide with "Narada". "Enterprise" beams Kirk, Pike, and Spock aboard. The older Spock's ship and "Narada" collide, igniting the red matter. "Narada" is consumed in a black hole that "Enterprise" barely escapes.

Kirk is promoted to captain and given command of "Enterprise", while Pike is promoted to rear admiral. Spock encounters his older self, who persuades his younger self to continue serving in Starfleet, encouraging him to do what feels right rather than what is logical. Spock becomes first officer under Kirk's command. "Enterprise" goes to warp as the elder Spock speaks the "where no one has gone before" monologue.

####Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan####
In 2285, Admiral James T. Kirk oversees a simulator session of Captain Spock's trainees. In the simulation, Lieutenant Saavik commands the starship USS|Enterprise|NCC-1701|6 on a rescue mission to save the crew of the damaged ship "Kobayashi Maru", but is attacked by Klingon cruisers and critically damaged. The simulation is a no-win scenario designed to test the character of Starfleet officers. Later, Dr. McCoy visits Kirk on his birthday; seeing Kirk in low spirits due to his age, the doctor advises Kirk to get a new command instead of growing old behind a desk.

anchor|Genesis DeviceMeanwhile, the starship "Reliant" is on a mission to search for a lifeless planet to test the Genesis Device, a technology designed to reorganize dead matter into habitable worlds. "Reliant"'s Captain Clark Terrell and first officer Commander Pavel Chekov beam down to evaluate a planet they believe to be Ceti Alpha VI; once there, they are captured by the genetically engineered tyrant Khan Noonien Singh explaining that they are on Ceti Alpha V. Fifteen years prior, Kirk exiled Khan and his fellow supermen to Ceti Alpha V after they attempted to take over his ship. The neighboring planet exploded, devastating the surface of Ceti Alpha V. Khan implants Chekov and Terrell with indigenous eel larvae (which killed several of his followers, including his wife) that render them susceptible to mind control, and uses them to capture "Reliant". Learning of the Genesis Device, Khan attacks space station "Regula I" where the device is being developed by Kirk's former lover, Dr. Carol Marcus, and their son, David.

Kirk assumes command of "Enterprise" after the ship, deployed on a training cruise, receives a distress call from "Regula I". En route, "Enterprise" is ambushed and crippled by "Reliant". Khan offers to spare Kirk's crew if they relinquish all material related to Genesis; Kirk instead stalls for time and, taking advantage of Khan's unfamiliarity with starship controls, remotely lowers "Reliant"'s shields, enabling a counter-attack. Khan is forced to retreat and effect repairs, while "Enterprise" limps to "Regula I". Kirk, McCoy, and Saavik beam to the station and find Terrell and Chekov alive, along with the slaughtered members of Marcus' team. They soon find Carol and David hiding Genesis deep inside the nearby planetoid. Khan, having used Terrell and Chekov as spies, orders them to kill Kirk; Terrell resists the eel's influence and kills himself, while Chekov collapses as the eel leaves his body. Khan transports Genesis aboard the "Reliant", intending to maroon Kirk on the lifeless planetoid, but is tricked by Kirk and Spock's coded arrangements for a rendezvous. Kirk directs "Enterprise" into the nearby Mutara Nebula; conditions inside the nebula render shields useless and compromise targeting systems, making "Enterprise" and "Reliant" evenly matched. Spock notes that Khan's tactics indicate inexperience in three-dimensional combat, which Kirk exploits to disable "Reliant".

Mortally wounded, Khan activates Genesis, quoting Captain Ahab from the novel Moby Dick as he dies. Though Kirk's crew detects the activation and attempts to move out of range, they will not be able to escape the nebula in time without the ship's inoperable warp drive. Spock goes to restore warp power in the engine room, which is flooded with radiation. When McCoy tries to prevent Spock's entry, Spock incapacitates him with a Vulcan nerve pinch and performs a mind meld, telling him to "remember". Spock repairs the warp drive, and "Enterprise" jumps to warp, escaping the explosion, which forms a new planet. Before dying of radiation poisoning, Spock urges Kirk not to grieve, as his decision to sacrifice himself to save the "Enterprise" was a logical one. Kirk and the ship's crew host a space burial for Spock, whose photon torpedo casket lands on the new Genesis planet.

####Star Trek Beyond####

The Federation starship USS "Enterprise" arrives at starbase "Yorktown", for resupply and shore leave for its crew. Struggling to find meaning in their exploration, Captain James T. Kirk has applied for a promotion to vice admiral; he recommends Spock as his replacement. Meanwhile, Hikaru Sulu reunites with his family, Montgomery Scott works to keep the ship operational, and Spock and Nyota Uhura have ended their relationship; Spock also receives word from New Vulcan that Ambassador Spock has died.

"Enterprise" is dispatched on a rescue mission after an escape pod drifts out of a nearby uncharted nebula. Its occupant, Kalara, claims her ship is stranded on Altamid, a planet in the nebula. Upon arrival, a massive swarm of small ships ambushes the "Enterprise" and quickly begins to tear it apart. The swarm's leader, Krall, and his crew board the crippled "Enterprise", capture and kill many crew members, and attempt to capture the Abronath, a relic recovered during a recent mission. Kirk orders the crew to abandon ship, leaving the disintegrating "Enterprise" saucer section to crash on Altamid.

On the planet, Krall captures Sulu, Uhura, and other survivors. Kirk and Pavel Chekov, accompanied by Kalara, locate the "Enterprise"'s saucer section. Knowing that Kalara knew they would be attacked, Kirk tricks her into revealing herself as Krall's spy. She is killed when Kirk and Chekov escape Krall's soldiers and flip the "Enterprise" saucer, crushing her. Elsewhere on the planet, Dr. Leonard McCoy and a wounded Spock search for other survivors. Spock tells McCoy that he ended his relationship with Uhura and is leaving Starfleet to help the Vulcan survivors and continue the late Ambassador Spock's work. Jaylah, a scavenger who previously escaped Krall's encampment where her father was killed, rescues Scott and takes him to her makeshift home, the grounded USS "Franklin", an early Starfleet vessel reported missing over a century earlier. Scott is reunited with Kirk, Chekov, McCoy and Spock. Krall coerces the captive "Enterprise" crew to hand over the Abronath, then uses it to complete an ancient bioweapon. With the device complete, Krall intends to kill "Yorktown"'s inhabitants, then use the base to attack the United Federation of Planets. Kirk and the others free the crew as Krall launches into space with the bioweapon, leading his drones to "Yorktown".

The "Enterprise" survivors power up the "Franklin" and launch her in pursuit of Krall. Theorizing the swarm's system may be vulnerable to high frequencies such as VHF or radio, they jam and destroy the swarm by broadcasting the song "Sabotage" by the Beastie Boys. Krall is chased by the "Franklin" through "Yorktown". Uhura, Kirk and Scotty discover from the "Franklin"'s logs that Krall is actually Balthazar Edison, "Franklin"'s former captain. A pre-Federation human soldier, Edison rejected the Federation's principles of unity and cooperation with former enemies like the Xindi and the Romulans. When he and his crew were stranded on Altamid by a wormhole, the survivors used the extinct natives' technology to prolong their lives at the cost of the others and re-purposed the ancient race's dormant mining drone workers into the swarm. Thinking the Federation had abandoned them, Edison planned to destroy the Federation and resume galactic conflict. Kirk pursues Edison into "Yorktown"'s ventilation system, where Edison activates the bioweapon. Before it can spread, Kirk ejects it and Edison into space, where the weapon disintegrates Edison. Using a commandeered alien ship, Spock and McCoy save Kirk moments before he is also blown into space.

In the aftermath, Commodore Paris closes the files of Captain Edison and the USS "Franklin" crew. Though offered the promotion to vice admiral, Kirk decides to remain as a captain; Spock chooses to remain in Starfleet and renews his relationship with Uhura. On Kirk's recommendation, Jaylah is accepted into Starfleet Academy. As the crew celebrates Kirk's birthday, they watch the construction of their new ship, the USS "Enterprise"-A—and resume their mission.

####Star Trek Into Darkness####

In 2259, Captain James T. Kirk is removed from command of the starship USS "Enterprise" for violating the Prime Directive after exposing the ship to the primitive inhabitants of the planet Nibiru in order to save them, and Spock, from a cataclysmic volcanic eruption. Admiral Christopher Pike is reinstated as commanding officer with Kirk demoted to first officer. Spock is transferred to another ship. Shortly after, Starfleet officer Thomas Harewood, sent by Commander John Harrison, bombs a Section 31 installation in London. During an emergency meeting on the situation, Harrison uses a ship to ambush and kill Pike and other senior officers, before transporting to Kronos, homeworld of the hostile Klingons.

Admiral Alexander Marcus reinstates Kirk and Spock to "Enterprise" with orders to kill Harrison using a new long range stealth torpedo. Chief Engineer Montgomery Scott objects to allowing untested torpedoes on board without knowing their specifications; when he is overruled, he resigns. Kirk assigns Pavel Chekov to replace Scotty. En route to Kronos, "Enterprise"'s warp capabilities become disabled. Kirk leads a team with Spock and Uhura to the planet, where they are ambushed by Klingon patrols. Harrison appears and kills the Klingons. Harrison surrenders when he learns the precise number of torpedoes on board "Enterprise".

Dr. Leonard McCoy and Marcus's daughter, Dr. Carol Marcus, open a torpedo at Harrison's urging, revealing the torpedoes contain cryonically-frozen humans. Harrison is taken to "Enterprise"'s brig, where he reveals his true identity as Khan Noonien Singh, a genetically engineered superhuman, awoken by Admiral Marcus from centuries of sleep and forced to develop advanced weapons. Khan reveals that Marcus sabotaged "Enterprise"'s warp drive, intending for the Klingons to destroy the ship after it fired on Kronos, sparking war with the Klingon Empire. Khan also gives Kirk a set of coordinates, which Kirk asks Scott to investigate. Scott discovers the coordinates lead to a covert Starfleet facility.

"Enterprise" is intercepted by a much larger Starfleet warship, USS "Vengeance", commanded by Admiral Marcus. Marcus demands that Kirk deliver Khan, but "Enterprise" flees to Earth to expose him. After "Vengeance" disables "Enterprise" near the Moon, Carol reveals her presence aboard "Enterprise" to stop the attack. Marcus forcibly transports Carol to "Vengeance" before ordering "Enterprise"'s destruction. "Vengeance" loses power after being sabotaged by Scott, who infiltrated the ship. With transporters down, Kirk and Khan, with the latter's knowledge of the warship's design, space-jump to "Vengeance". Meanwhile, Spock contacts his future self on New Vulcan, who tells him of his own encounter with Khan and warns that he cannot be trusted. After fighting their way to the bridge, Khan overpowers Kirk, Scott, and Carol, kills Marcus, and takes control of "Vengeance".

Khan demands that Spock return his frozen crew in exchange for the "Enterprise" officers. Spock complies, having had McCoy surreptitiously remove Khan's frozen crew from the torpedoes beforehand. When Khan starts shooting at "Enterprise", Spock detonates the warheads, crippling the ship. With both starships caught in Earth's gravity, they plummet toward the surface. Kirk enters "Enterprise"'s radioactive reactor chamber to realign the warp core, sacrificing himself to save the ship.

Khan crashes "Vengeance" into downtown San Francisco in an attempt to destroy Starfleet headquarters, while McCoy discovers that Khan's blood has regenerative properties that may save Kirk. A vengeful Spock pursues Khan through the city and the two engage in hand-to-hand combat. Uhura beams down and stuns Khan. Spock prepares to kill Khan, but Uhura stops him, explaining he is their only chance to save Kirk. Khan's blood revives Kirk and Khan is sealed in his cryogenic pod and stored with his compatriots. One year later, Kirk speaks at "Enterprise"'s re-dedication ceremony. The "Enterprise" crew embarks on a five-year exploratory mission.

####Stargate: Continuum####
SG-1 and Jack O'Neill attend a Tok'ra extraction ceremony for Ba'al, the last of the Goa'uld System Lords. Ba'al claims, however, that he is merely the last clone and that the real Ba'al has a fail-safe plan. The real Ba'al travels back in time to 1939 Earth and massacres the crew of the "Achilles", the ship carrying the Stargate to the United States. The captain of the "Achilles" lives long enough to drop the bomb Ba'al left overboard and keep the ship from being destroyed. In the present, people and objects start disappearing, including Vala Mal Doran and Teal'c. Jack is killed by the clone, but Samantha Carter, Daniel Jackson and Cameron Mitchell reach the Stargate. They are surprised to emerge inside the derelict "Achilles", which has drifted to the Arctic&nbsp;— Ba'al's actions have created a timeline in which the Stargate Program never happened. After escaping from the sinking "Achilles", they are rescued by a team led by Colonel Jack O'Neill. Although General Landry believes their story (after intensive interrogation), they are denied permission to change the timeline. In the alternate timeline, Daniel is still trying to convince people about his theories of the pyramids, Carter died in a space shuttle accident and Mitchell does not exist at all because his grandfather was the "Achilles" captain. The three are forced by the authorities to lead separate lives, with no contact allowed between them.

A year passes, and SG-1 is called back into action when Goa'uld scoutships appear. Ba'al has brought the other System Lords under his control and now stands ready to conquer Earth, with Qetesh, still residing in Vala's body, as his queen and Teal'c as his First Prime. SG-1 is brought to President Henry Hayes and General George Hammond, who inform them that, based on SG-1's accounts, they have recovered the Antarctic Stargate and are excavating the Antarctic Ancient outpost to reach the weapon that saved Earth in the original timeline. SG-1 is sent in F-15s to McMurdo Station to gate to Proclarush Taonas, another Ancient outpost, to retrieve a Zero Point Module to power the Antarctic outpost.

Above Earth, Ba'al's armada arrives. To the displeasure of his subordinates, the other System Lords, Ba'al announces that he will treat the Tau'ri relatively leniently. Suspicious about Ba'al's thorough knowledge of Earth, Qetesh betrays him and forces him to tell her everything. She orders the destruction of McMurdo and the Ancient outpost in Ba'al's name, but she kills Ba'al when Teal'c discovers what she is doing. As Teal'c escapes to an Al'kesh, Qetesh orders the fleet to bombard Earth, while she goes to secure Ba'al's time machine.

When the Goa'uld destroy the Antarctic Stargate, SG-1 is rerouted to Russia, as the Russians had retrieved the "Achilles"' Stargate from the ocean floor. Teal'c arrives at the facility as well, seeking to use the Stargate to reach the time machine before Qetesh. The two sides agree to a truce and get to Ba'al's time machine: an underground supercomputer connected to hundreds of satellites that monitor solar flares from various stars that could intersect a wormhole created by the Stargate; the flares are necessary for time travel. SG-1 must wait for the right flare in order to journey to the right time, but when Qetesh's troops attack, they are forced to dial the Stargate to the year 1929 - ten years before their desired target date. Sam and Daniel are killed in the firefight, and only Mitchell passes through the Stargate. Teal'c, mortally wounded, blows himself and Qetesh up. After a decade of waiting, Mitchell stows away on the "Achilles" and kills Ba'al and his troops when they come aboard through the Stargate.

In the now-restored timeline, SG-1, completely unaware of the previous events, watch the extraction proceed without incident. On Earth, Daniel wonders what Ba'al meant by his fail-safe.

####Starship Troopers (film)####
####Thor: Love and Thunder####
####Thor: Ragnarok####
####The Three Stooges in Orbit####
The Stooges are TV actors who are trying to sell ideas for their animated television show "The Three Stooges Scrapbook". Unfortunately, their producer does not like anything. He gives the boys ten days to come up with a gimmick or their show will be canceled. In the meantime, the Stooges lose their accommodation when they are caught cooking in their room because Curly Joe turned up the TV-disguised refrigerator way too loud which distracted the landlady. The only affordable accommodation that will allow cooking is found in an advertisement in a newspaper. The home belongs to Professor Danforth (Emil Sitka) and it resembles a castle.

Professor Danforth is convinced that Martians will soon invade Earth. He persuades the boys to help him with his new military invention—a land, air and sea vehicle (tank, helicopter, flying submarine). In return, Danforth will create a new "electronic animation" machine for the Stooges to use in their television show. The boys think the Professor a crank but accept his eccentricities along with his accommodation. No one, especially the FBI listens to the Professor's cries for help, but the boys apprehend Danforth's butler who dresses like a monster to terrify the Professor. In reality the butler is a Martian spy made to look like a human.

The Martians, meanwhile, send two more alien spies named Ogg and Zogg who are not disguised as humans to Earth to prepare for the invasion. When Moe accidentally sends a television transmission of old films and scenes of the Twist craze through the Martian's communication device, they are offended and call off the invasion, opting instead to destroy Earth.

Meanwhile, the Stooges give the vehicle a test run. They mistakenly enter a nuclear test area, when their engine malfunctions. They land near a test rig where a test nuclear depth bomb is set up. The Stooges take the bomb, thinking it is a carburetor, and fasten it to the engine. Water, meant to detonate the bomb, shoots out of the testing rig. The military is bewildered by test's failure. With the bomb attached to the engine, the vehicle now performs beyond expectations, even going into space.

Later in the film, the Martians board the vehicle while it's parked and mount a ray gun on it. As they take off with orders to destroy Earth, the boys manage to get onto the craft to try to stop them and prevent the ray gun from destroying Disneyland. The Stooges are able to use one of the Martians' ray guns to separate the fuselage from the conning tower. The fuselage, holding Ogg and Zogg, crashes into the ocean, detonating the nuclear depth bomb. Clinging to the auto-rotating helicopter section, the Stooges survive, crashing through the roof of the television studio in the nick of time and saving their careers.

####Thunderbirds (2004 film)####
The Tracy family, led by former astronaut Jeff Tracy, operate International Rescue (IR), a secret organization that aids those in need during disasters using technologically advanced machines called Thunderbirds, operating out of Tracy Island in the South Pacific. Youngest son Alan attends a boarding school in Massachusetts, with his best friend Fermat Hackenbacker, son of the Thunderbirds’ resident engineer Brains, and dreams of being a Thunderbird pilot.

The pair are distracted by a news report following the Thunderbirds performing a rescue at a Russian oil rig. Unbeknownst to them, the Hood, a psychic criminal mastermind, has had one of his accomplices plant a tracking beacon on the hull of "Thunderbird 1". Alan and Fermat are transported home to Tracy Island by Lady Penelope Creighton-Ward, an IR agent, and her butler, Aloysius Parker, in "FAB 1". Alan and Fermat unsuccessfully attempt to fly "Thunderbird 1", alarming Jeff, which results in Alan getting grounded for the rest of spring break.

The Hood's submarine locates Tracy Island and fires a missile at the orbiting "Thunderbird 5", sending Jeff and older sons Scott, Virgil and Gordon in "Thunderbird 3" to rescue John Tracy. The Hood and his team, led by Mullion and Transom, take over the island's command centre, imprisoning the Tracys in "Thunderbird 5" as their oxygen runs out. The Hood reveals that during one of International Rescue's first operations, Jeff abandoned him in a collapsing illegal diamond mine, but rescued his half-brother Kyrano, another Tracy Island resident. As revenge, he plans to use the "Thunderbirds" to rob ten of the major banks of the world, thus plunging the world's monetary system into chaos, with International Rescue held responsible and disgraced.

Alan, Fermat and their friend Tin-Tin (Kyrano's daughter and Alan's crush), use a ventilation shaft to reach the Thunderbird silos. Fermat removes "Thunderbird 2"-'s guidance chip, delaying the Hood's plan, and the teenagers flee into the island's jungle to find the island's remote transmitter. After Alan has a close encounter with a venomous scorpion, Tin-Tin displays psychic powers similar to those of her uncle.

Having made contact at the remote transmitter on one of the island's hills, Alan insists on confronting the Hood, but Jeff tells them to wait for Lady Penelope's arrival; contact is lost due to Transom's jamming before they can resolve the disagreement. The trio flees from Mullion and his men, and Alan insists on using a hovercraft with a trailer attached to it to get away, despite Fermat and Tin-Tin's reservations; they are proven right when the trailer breaks off, and they are captured.

Lady Penelope and Parker arrive, engaging the Hood's minions in combat, but the Hood defeats them with his powers. When Alan appears, the Hood forces him to give up the guidance chip and locks him and the others in the compound's walk-in freezer. The Hood, Mullion, and Transom pilot the now-repaired "Thunderbird 2" to London and use the Mole to sink a monorail line into the Thames and drill into the Bank of England’s vaults. Alan and company escape and contact Jeff and his older sons, who regain control of "Thunderbird 5". While the adults set out to stop the Hood, the teenagers and Lady Penelope fly to London in "Thunderbird 1".

Arriving in London, Alan and Tin-Tin rescue the submerged monorail car using the aquatic "Thunderbird 4" before pursuing the Hood. Together, Fermat, Tin-Tin, and Parker defeat the Hood's henchmen. The Hood locks Jeff and Lady Penelope in a vault and challenges Alan to defeat him. Alan dangles from a catwalk over the Mole, until Tin-Tin appears, using her own powers to defeat the Hood. The Hood taunts Alan to let him die as his father did, but Alan rescues him, knowing that his father had, in fact, tried unsuccessfully to save the Hood.

The Hood and his team are arrested, and International Rescue return to their island. Alan, Fermat, and Tin-Tin are inducted as official members of IR, and the film ends as they, alongside Alan's brothers, depart for their first mission.

####Time After Time (1979 film)####
In 1893 London, popular writer Herbert George Wells displays a time machine to his skeptical dinner guests. After he explains how it works (including a "non-return key" that keeps the machine at the traveler's destination and a "vaporizing equalizer" that keeps the traveler and machine on equal terms), police constables  arrive at the house searching for Jack the Ripper. A bag with blood-stained gloves belonging to one of Herbert's friends, a surgeon named John Leslie Stevenson, leads them to conclude that Stevenson might be the infamous killer. Wells races to his laboratory, but the time machine is gone.

Stevenson has escaped to the future, but because he does not have the "non-return" key, the machine automatically returns to 1893. Herbert uses it to pursue Stevenson to November 5, 1979, where the machine has ended up on display at a museum in San Francisco. He is deeply shocked by the future, having expected it to be an enlightened socialist utopia, only to find chaos in the form of airplanes, automobiles and a worldwide history of war, crime and bloodshed.

At an antique shop, Herbert exchanges some British bank notes for present-day American money. Growing hungry after a day without food, he enters a McDonald's and is alternately puzzled and pleased with 1979 dining options, noting the similarity between 1890s "pommes frites" from France and modern French fries. Wells is still ruffled by the idea of dining without tableware.

Reasoning that Stevenson would also need to exchange his British money, Herbert asks about him at various banks. At the Chartered Bank of London, he meets employee Amy Robbins, who says she had directed Stevenson to a local hotel.

Confronted by his one-time friend Herbert, Stevenson confesses that he finds modern society to be pleasingly violent, stating: "Ninety years ago, I was a freak. Today, I'm an amateur."

Herbert demands he return to 1893 to face justice, but Stevenson instead attempts to wrestle the time machine's key from him. Their struggle is interrupted by a maid and Stevenson flees, getting hit by a car during the frantic chase. Herbert follows him to the hospital emergency room and mistakenly gets the impression that Stevenson has died from his injuries.

Herbert meets up with Amy Robbins again and she initiates a romance. Stevenson returns to the bank to exchange more money. Suspecting that it was Amy who had led Herbert to him, he finds out where she lives.

Herbert, hoping to convince her of the truth, takes a highly skeptical Amy three days into the future. Once there, she is aghast to see a newspaper headline revealing her own murder as the Ripper's fifth victim.

Herbert persuades her that they must go back – it is their duty to attempt to prevent the fourth victim's murder, then prevent Amy's. However, they are delayed upon their return to the present and can do no more than phone the police. Stevenson kills again, and Herbert is arrested because of his knowledge of the killing. Amy is left alone, totally defenseless, and at the mercy of the "San Francisco Ripper".

While Herbert unsuccessfully tries to convince the police of Amy's peril, she attempts to hide from Stevenson. When the police finally do investigate her apartment, they find the dismembered body of a woman. Now convinced of Herbert's innocence, the police release a now-heartbroken Wells. However, he is contacted by Stevenson, who had actually killed Amy's coworker (revealed to be the dead body in Amy's apartment) and taken Amy hostage in order to extort the time machine key from Wells.

Stevenson flees with the key – and Amy as insurance – to attempt a permanent escape in the time machine. Using Amy's car, driving the unfamiliar machine erratically, Herbert manages to follow them back to the museum. While Herbert bargains for Amy's life, she is able to escape. As Stevenson starts up the time machine, Herbert removes the "vaporizing equalizer" from it, causing Stevenson to vanish while the machine does not. As Herbert had explained earlier, this causes the machine to remain in place while its passenger is sent traveling endlessly through time with no way to stop; in effect, he is destroyed.

Herbert proclaims that the time has come to return to his own time, in order to destroy a machine that he now knows is too dangerous for primitive mankind. Amy pleads with him to take her along, explaining she has no remaining ties in the 20th century. The film ends with the caption: "H.G. Wells married Amy Catherine Robbins, who died in 1927. As a writer, he anticipated socialism, global war, space travel, and women's liberation. He died in 1946."

####The Time Machine (1960 film)####

On January 5, 1900, four friends arrive for a dinner at the London home of their inventor friend George. He is absent, then suddenly appears, bedraggled and exhausted. He recounts what happened to him.

At the group's earlier dinner on New Year's Eve, George stated that time is the fourth dimension. He shows David Filby, Dr. Philip Hillyer, Anthony Bridewell, and Walter Kemp a scale model time machine. When a tiny lever on it is pressed, the device quickly disappears. George says it went forward in time, but his friends are skeptical. The group leaves George's house, Filby reluctantly, as he senses George is not himself. George then retires to his private laboratory that holds a full-size time machine.

George travels forward in time, first in small increments, and then to 1917. He meets Filby's son, James, who says Filby died in a war. George returns to the time machine and stops in 1940 during the Blitz, finding himself in the midst of "a new war". A disillusioned George then travels to 1966. People are rushing to fallout shelters as air raid sirens are blaring. An elderly James Filby urges George to take cover. George barely makes it back to his time machine as an "atomic satellite" detonates, causing a local volcanic eruption. The approaching lava rises, cools, and hardens, trapping George as he travels far into the future. Eventually the lava wears away, revealing a lush, unspoiled landscape.

George stops on October 12, 802,701, near the base of a sphinx. He encounters young men and women wearing simple clothing gathered by a stream. One woman, carried off by the current, screams for help. When her indifferent companions do nothing, George rescues her. She is named Weena and her people are the Eloi; they do not operate machines, work, or read, and know little of their history. Their food is always provided for them. One young man shows George a library, but the books crumble to dust when touched. Outraged, he decides to leave, but his machine has been dragged inside the closed sphinx. Weena, who stays with him, says that Morlocks are responsible, noting they only come out at night. A hideous-looking Morlock jumps out and tries to drag Weena away, but is warded off by George's lit torch.

The next day, Weena shows George domed structures dotting the landscape, air shafts that lead down to the Morlocks' caverns. Weena also shows George an ancient museum where "talking rings" tell of long-ago war between east and west that lasted 326 years and contaminated the atmosphere. Another ring describes humanity's struggle for survival; many people lived underground, while some eventually returned to the surface. George realizes this was the beginning of the speciation that resulted in the Morlocks and Eloi. He starts to climb down a shaft, but stops when sirens emerge and blare from the sphinx. The Eloi go into a trance-like state and head for the opened doors at the sphinx's base. The sirens stop and the doors close, trapping Weena and others inside, while those outside merely walk away.

George enters the caverns through the air shafts. He discovers that the Morlocks raise the Eloi as food. He finds Weena and fights off the creatures, finally inspiring the Eloi to defend themselves. George sets fires and urges the Eloi to climb to the surface. He directs them to drop tree branches down the shafts. The resulting fires cause the caverns to burn, then collapse.

The next morning, the sphinx's doors are open. George sees his time machine inside. When he enters the sphinx, the doors close and George is attacked by Morlocks. He escapes in his machine and returns to 1900.

After George recounts his story, his friends remain skeptical. He produces a flower Weena gave him, and Filby, an amateur botanist, says it is an unknown species. George bids his guests good evening. Filby returns shortly thereafter to find George and his time machine gone. His housekeeper, Mrs. Watchett, notes that nothing is missing except three books that she is unable to identify. When Mrs. Watchett wonders if George will ever return, Filby remarks that "he has all the time in the world".

####The Time Machine (1978 film)####
####The Time Machine (2002 film)####

In 1899, Dr. Alexander Hartdegen is an inventor teaching at Columbia University in New York City. Unlike his friend David Philby, Alexander would rather do pure research than work in the world of business. After a mugger kills his fiancée Emma, he devotes himself to building a time machine that will allow him to travel back in time to save her. When he completes the machine four years later, he travels back to 1899 and prevents her murder, only to see her killed again when a horseless carriage frightens the horses of a horse-drawn vehicle.

Alexander realizes that any attempt to save Emma will result in her death through other circumstances. He travels to 2030 to discover whether science has been able to solve his question of how to change the past. At the New York Public Library, a holographic librarian called Vox 114 insists time travel to the past is impossible. Alexander travels to 2037, when the accidental destruction of the Moon by lunar colonists has begun rendering the Earth virtually uninhabitable. While restarting the time machine to avoid debris, he is knocked unconscious and travels forward to the date 16 July 802701 before reawakening.

The human race has reverted to a primitive lifestyle and the Earth has healed. Some survivors, called "Eloi", live on the sides of cliffs of what was once Manhattan. Alexander is nursed back to health by a virtuous young woman named Mara, one of the few Eloi who speak English. He observes the broken moon and realises that maybe his teachings led to this future. One night, Alexander and Mara's younger brother, Kalen, dream of a frightening, jagged-toothed face and a creature calling their name. Alexander informs Mara of the dream and she tells him they all have that dream, and she notices that his watch is missing. The next day, the Eloi are attacked and Mara is dragged underground by ape-like monsters. The creatures are called "Morlocks" and they hunt the Eloi for food. In order to rescue Mara, Kalen leads Alexander to Vox 114, which is still functional after 800,000 years.

After learning from Vox how to find the Morlocks, Alexander enters their underground lair through an opening that resembles the face in his nightmare. He is captured and thrown into an area where Mara sits in a cage. Alexander meets an intelligent, humanoid Über-Morlock, who explains that Morlocks are the evolutionary descendants of the humans who went underground after the Moon broke apart, while the Eloi are evolved from those who remained on the surface. The Über-Morlocks are a caste of telepaths who rule the other Morlocks, and use the Eloi as breeding vessels for their Morlock offspring.

The Über-Morlock explains that Alexander cannot alter Emma's fate; her death is what drove him to build the time machine in the first place, therefore saving her would be a virtual impossibility due to temporal paradox. The Über-Morlock shows Alexander and tells him to go home, having given him the answer he had been searching for. Alexander gets into the machine but pulls the Über-Morlock in with him, carrying them into the future as they fight. The Über-Morlock dies by rapidly aging when Alexander pushes him outside of the machine's temporal bubble. Alexander stops in 635,427,810, revealing a harsh, rust-colored sky over a wasteland of Morlock caves.

Accepting that he cannot save Emma, Alexander travels back to rescue Mara. After freeing her, he starts the time machine and jams its gears, creating a violent distortion in time. Pursued by the Morlocks, Alexander and Mara escape to the surface as the time distortion explodes, killing the Morlocks and destroying their caves along with the time machine. Alexander begins a new life with Mara and the Eloi, while Vox 114 helps him educate them.

In 1903, Philby and Mrs. Watchit, Alexander's housekeeper, are in his laboratory discussing his absence. Philby tells Mrs. Watchit he is glad that Alexander has gone to a place where he can find peace, then tells her that he would like to hire her as a housekeeper, which she accepts until Alexander returns. Mrs. Watchit bids Alexander farewell and Philby leaves, looking toward the laboratory affectionately, then throws his bowler hat away in tribute to Alexander's objection to conformity.

####Timeline (2003 film)####

Professor Edward Johnston leads an archaeological study of the village of Castlegard, near LaRoque Castle in Dordogne, France, the site of the 1357 hanging of Lady Claire, sister to Arnaut de Cervole. Her martyrdom led France to win the Hundred Years War against the English. Johnston's team includes Scottish archaeologist André Marek; Johnston's students Kate Erickson, Josh Stern, and François Dontelle; and his son Chris who is infatuated with Kate. While excavating a nearby monastery, they find a sarcophagus containing the remains of a French knight with a lopped ear, holding the hand of his lady, an unheard-of practice for the time.

Johnston travels to the American headquarters of the ITC Corporation, his project's sponsor, to inquire whether or not they have tampered with the site. The students later discover a lense from Johnston's bifocals and a note begging for help, although both date over 600 years old. When the students contact ITC, the company invites them to its headquarters.

There, the team is introduced to ITC president Robert Doniger and vice-president Steven Kramer. Doniger reveals that in the process of developing teleportation technology, they locked onto a stable wormhole to 1357 Castlegard. Johnston was invited to see the past for himself, but his group has not returned, and they want the students to go back in time to locate him. All but Josh volunteer to go.

The volunteers are stripped of all modern technology save for pendant-shaped markers they can use to initiate their return. The students are joined by a security team including ITC's head of security, Frank Gordon, and two former military men.

On arrival in 1357, the team finds itself in the path of a young woman chased by English knights; the security men are killed while protecting the group, although one activated his marker shortly after priming a grenade. When his body arrives in the present, the grenade detonates and shatters much of the teleportation device. Josh aids Kramer in making repairs.

The team evades the knights, and the woman leads them to the English-controlled Castlegard. They are captured and brought before Lord Oliver de Vannes and his second in command, DeKere. The team members are stripped of their markers, and de Vannes kills François, believing he is a French spy. The others are imprisoned along with Johnston, who is revealed to have promised de Vannes that he can make Greek fire for the English in exchange for his life. They make their escape but are pursued by the English. Gordon and Johnston are recaptured, while the others make for the monastery, led by the woman.

DeKere reveals himself to Gordon and Johnston as former ITC employee William Decker; he had frequently used the teleportation device but was not told by ITC that each use damaged his DNA until it was too late, at which point he would die on a return trip. He plans revenge on ITC and kills Gordon. De Vannes orders his knights to march on LaRoque castle, and DeKere brings Johnston along.

At the monastery, Marek, Kate, and Chris meet de Cervole and realize the woman is Lady Claire; they have changed history by saving her. Marek, who has become infatuated with Lady Claire, is given a horse to rescue his friends. Kate and Chris help to swing the upcoming battle in the French's favor by leading de Cervole's men through the monastery tunnels they had previously mapped to the castle.

As the battle starts, Marek is captured in his rescue attempt; Lady Claire is also kidnapped. Marek manages to free himself, Lady Claire, and Johnston, while Chris helps de Cervole defeat de Vannes. Enraged, DeKere slashes off Marek's earlobe, and Marek realizes he is destined to be the knight in the sarcophagus. Marek defeats DeKere, recovers the markers, gives them to the others, and says his goodbyes as he runs off to help the French assure victory and restore history.

As the three returnees activate their markers, in the present Josh and Kramer have finished the repairs after coming to learn that Doniger has attempted to sabotage their attempts; Doniger fears that when the students' stories become public, ITC will suffer great financial losses. As the machine activates, Doniger races into it, attempting to block the teleportation, but instead he is sent back to 1357, where he arrives outside the castle and is presumably killed by a charging knight.

Chris, Kate, and Johnston safely return. Later, the team returns to the Castlegard ruins, re-examine the sarcophagus, and find that Marek and Lady Claire led a prosperous life after the war and had three children: Christophe, Katherine, and François.

####Timescape (1992 film)####
The grieving widower Ben Wilson is renovating an old guest house on the outskirts of his hometown with his young daughter, Hillary. The local bus driver, Oscar, arrives with a group of peculiarly behaved and dressed tourists, who insist on staying at the remote guest house, instead of the town center's large hotel. When Ben aids one of the tourists, Quish, after a minor accident, he discovers that Quish's passport is inexplicably stamped with locations, dated decades apart, that correspond to famous disasters, including the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, the crash of the "Hindenburg", and the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens. Ben confronts Quish, who responds only by warning Ben to leave town. Meanwhile, Ben's vengeful father-in-law, Judge Caldwell, who blames Ben for his daughter's death, has Ben declared an unfit parent and takes custody of Hillary.

One of the tourists, Reeve, confirms Ben's suspicions about their true nature: they are time-travelers from the future who visit famous disasters from their past. She drugs and seduces Ben and leaves him unconscious.  Oscar finds and revives him. As they attempt to confront the tourists at the guest house, a meteorite strike devastates the town. Ben finds Hilary alive at Caldwell's house, and they spend the night and help survivors while the tourists stroll through the devastation in detached fascination. The next day, Ben realizes that the tourists are still in town;l. He deduces that they are awaiting a second disaster, which will soon affect a local school, which is being used as a relief center. As he rushes there, a gas explosion destroys the building and kills Hillary and most of the other erstwhile survivors, as well as Quish, who had followed Ben. The tourists take Ben prisoner so that an official from their time, the Undersecretary, can investigate and attempt to mend Ben's "timescape." After Ben accuses Reeve of lacking humanity, she slips him Quish's passport, which conceals a time travel device.

Ben travels to the previous evening. He tries to remove Hilary from Caldwell's house but is caught and arrested. Using his one phone call, he contacts his pre-existing self before Reeve can incapacitate him. Ben's earlier self helps him escape from the jail, and together, the two Bens draw most of town's residents to safety at a church on the other side of town by ringing the church bells to the tune of "Für Elise", his wife's favorite piece of music. Leaving Hilary with his earlier self, Ben meets with the Undersecretary to return to his original timeframe. He warns Ben not to interfere any further and threatens to reset the timeline. Ben calls his bluff since the Undersecretary would have already done so if he had the ability.

Some time later, Hilary takes bookings for the completed guest house while Ben reads through old love letters from his late wife. When Hilary looks up, Ben has vanished, and Hilary hears someone playing "Für Elise" on the piano.

####Tomorrowland (film)####
In 1964, a young boy named Frank Walker attends the 1964 New York World's Fair to sell his prototype jet pack, but is rejected, as it does not work. Frank is approached by a young girl, Athena, who hands him an orange lapel pin with a blue "T" embossed on it, telling him to follow her onto Walt Disney's "It's a Small World" attraction at the Fair's Pepsi-Cola Pavilion. Frank obeys and sneaks onto the ride, where the pin is scanned by a laser, and he is transported to Tomorrowland, a futuristic cityscape, where advanced robots fix his jetpack, allowing him to fly and join the secretive world.

In the present day, optimistic teenager Casey Newton repeatedly sabotages the planned demolition of a NASA launch site in Florida. Her father, Eddie, is a NASA engineer, but faces losing his job. Casey is eventually caught and arrested. At the police station, she finds a pin in her belongings. While touching it, the pin transports her to Tomorrowland. Her adventure is cut short when the pin's battery runs out.

With help from her younger brother Nate, Casey finds a Houston memorabilia store related to the pin. The owners attack her when she is unable to divulge where she got the pin, insisting that Casey knows about a "little girl". Athena bursts in and defeats the owners, actually Audio-Animatronics, who self-destruct, blowing apart the shop. After Casey and Athena steal a car, Athena reveals she is an animatronic, purposed to find and recruit people who fit the ideals of Tomorrowland. Athena drops Casey off outside an adult Frank's house in Pittsfield, New York.

The reclusive, cynical Frank declines Casey's request to take her to Tomorrowland, having been banished from it years ago. Inside Frank's house, Casey finds a probability counter marking the end of the world. Frank warns her that the future is doomed, but she disagrees, thus lowering the counter's probability. Animatronic assassins arrive to kill Casey, but she and Frank escape, meeting Athena in the woods outside Frank's house. Frank resents Athena for lying to him about her true nature, but reluctantly agrees to help them get to Tomorrowland.

Using a teleportation device, the trio travel to the top of the Eiffel Tower. Frank explains that Gustave Eiffel, Jules Verne, Nikola Tesla, and Thomas Edison co-founded Plus Ultra, a secret society of futurists, creating Tomorrowland in another dimension, free to make scientific breakthroughs without obstruction, eventually inducting Walt Disney into the society based on his philosophy of "making dreams come true" through imagination and filmmaking aligning with their own principles, thus one of the first transports to Tommorowland was built beneath Disneyland's park attraction of the same name. The trio use an antique rocket, called the "Spectacle", hidden beneath the Eiffel Tower to travel to Tomorrowland.

There, they find Tomorrowland in a state of decay. David Nix, Tomorrowland's governor, greets them. They travel to a tachyon machine, invented by Frank, which accurately predicted the worldwide catastrophe. Casey refuses to accept the world will end, causing the future to temporarily alter. While Frank attempts to convince David to listen, he refuses and intends to have the group leave Tomorrowland.

Casey realizes the tachyon machine is telling humanity that the world will end, creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. They confront David, who admits he tried to prevent the future by projecting such images to humanity as a warning. Instead, they embraced the apocalypse, refusing to act to make a better future for their world. Believing that humanity simply gave up, David has also given up and intends to allow the apocalypse to happen. Casey, Frank, and Athena attempt to use a bomb to destroy the machine, leading to a fight with David. The bomb is accidentally thrown through a portal to an uninhabited island on Earth, the explosion pinning David's leg. Athena sees a vision of the future where Frank is shot by David, and she jumps in the way of his attack, mortally wounding herself. Making peace with Frank, Athena activates her self-destruct sequence, destroying the machine, which falls on David, killing him.

In the present, Casey and Frank lead Tomorrowland, recruit Eddie and Nate, and create a new group of recruitment animatronics like Athena, whom they were addressing at the beginning of the film. Given pins, the animatronic children set out to recruit new dreamers and thinkers for Tomorrowland.

####Transformers (film)####

The planet Cybertron was consumed by a civil war between the two Transformer factions, the Autobots led by Optimus Prime and the Decepticons led by Megatron, for the AllSpark, a cube-like object that is the source of all Cybertronian life. The Autobots want to find the AllSpark so they can use it to rebuild Cybertron and end the war, while the Decepticons want to use it to defeat the Autobots and conquer the universe. Megatron found the AllSpark on Earth, but crash-landed in the Arctic Circle and was frozen in the ice. Captain Archibald Witwicky and his crew of explorers stumbled upon Megatron in 1897. Captain Witwicky accidentally activates Megatron's navigational system, causing his eyeglasses to be imprinted with the coordinates of the AllSpark's location. Sector 7, a secret United States government organization, discovers the AllSpark in the Colorado River and builds the Hoover Dam around it to mask its energy emissions. The still-frozen Megatron is moved into this facility and is reverse engineered to advance human technology.

In the present day, the Decepticons—Blackout, Scorponok, Frenzy, Barricade, Starscream and Devastator<!--PLEASE NOTE!!, the original release referred to him as "Devastator" not "Brawl"!-->—have landed on Earth and assumed the disguise of Earth vehicles plus have setup a conspiracy. Blackout and Scorponok attack the U.S. SOCCENT military base in Qatar and try to hack into the U.S. military network to find the location of Megatron and the AllSpark. Their mission is thwarted when the base staff severs the network cable connections. While Blackout destroys the rest of the base, Scorponok chases a small group of survivors who have photographic evidence of the robots, but he is eventually repelled. During this battle, the military discovers its only effective weapons against the Transformers' armor are high-heat sabot rounds. After Blackout's failure, Frenzy infiltrates Air Force One to try again to hack into the military network, and in doing so plants a virus. He finds the map imprinted on Captain Witwicky's glasses, whose descendant, Sam Witwicky, intends to sell on eBay. Frenzy and Barricade begin tracking Sam's location.

One of the Autobots, Bumblebee, is also on Earth, disguised as a 1976 Chevrolet Camaro,<ref name="making of" /> and is bought by Sam while shopping for his first car. Bumblebee helps him woo his crush, Mikaela Banes. Bumblebee leaves at night to transmit a homing signal to the rest of the Autobots and Sam sees him in robot mode. Barricade confronts Sam and demands Archibald's spectacles, but Bumblebee rescues him and Mikaela. After Bumblebee upgrades his vehicle form by scanning a 2006 Chevrolet Camaro, they leave to rendezvous with the rest of the Autobots: Optimus Prime, Jazz, Ironhide, and Ratchet—who have landed on Earth and taken the forms of Earth vehicles as well. Sam, Mikaela, and the Autobots return to Sam's home and obtain the glasses. Soon, agents from Sector 7 arrive to arrest Sam and Mikaela, and they capture Bumblebee.

Frenzy, disguised as a mobile phone, secretly accompanies the group to the Hoover Dam and releases Megatron. Locating the AllSpark, Frenzy sends an alert to the other Decepticons. Sam convinces the Sector 7 agents to release Bumblebee so that he can get the AllSpark to Optimus Prime. Frenzy's virus has shut down government communications, but a pair of hackers manage to establish a signal to the Air Force. The Autobot-human convoy goes to nearby Mission City, Nevada to obtain a radio that will guide the Air Force's defense and secure a rendezvous point as a safe destination for the AllSpark. The Decepticons attack and Brawl, Bonecrusher, Frenzy, Jazz, Devastator, and Blackout are all killed during the ensuing battle, but Sam manages to ram the AllSpark into Megatron's chest, killing Megatron and destroying the AllSpark. Optimus takes a fragment of the AllSpark from Megatron's corpse but realizes that with its destruction, their homeworld Cybertron cannot be restored. The US government decommissions Sector 7 and dumps the corpses of the defeated Decepticons into the Laurentian Abyss. Sam and Mikaela begin a relationship, and Optimus sends a signal to other surviving Autobots directing them to Earth.

####Transformers: Age of Extinction####
Sixty-five million years ago, an alien race known as the "Creators" used devices called Seeds to cover Earth with a metallic alloy called "Transformium", wiping out the dinosaurs in the process. In the present day, geologist Darcy Tirrel excavates the Transformium for K.S.I. Industries, who use it to build Transformer drones.

Five years later, despite the efforts after the Battle of Chicago,efn|As depicted in "Transformers: Dark of the Moon" (2011) humans view Transformers as hostile and terminate all joint operations with them. Though the public believes that the Autobots were granted sanctuary, they are hunted down by a rogue CIA black ops division, Cemetery Wind, led by opportunistic, rogue intelligence operative Harold Attinger, who believes that all Transformers are dangerous and must be destroyed. Lockdown, a Cybertronian assassin and bounty hunter working for the Creators, is tasked to find Optimus Prime. In exchange, he gives Attinger a Seed if his division manages to capture Optimus. Lockdown locates and kills Ratchet when he refuses to give up Optimus's location.

Optimus, badly damaged in Mexico City, hides in Texas and is discovered by Cade Yeager, a financially struggling inventor and a single father. While his teenage daughter Tessa and business partner Lucas Flannery encourage him to turn Optimus over to the authorities, Cade instead fixes Optimus. Still skeptical of Optimus, Lucas alerts the authorities, and James Savoy, Attinger's field commanding operative, attacks the Yeager farm, but Optimus, and Tessa's secret boyfriend, Irish rally car driver Shane Dyson, rescue the family. During the pursuit, Lucas is killed by one of Lockdown's grenades. Optimus summons the surviving Autobots – Bumblebee, Hound, Drift, and Crosshairs. Using a stolen CIA drone, Cade discovers K.S.I.'s involvement with Cemetery Wind and the attacks on the Autobots.

Infiltrating K.S.I.'s headquarters in Chicago, Cade discovers the dead Autobots and Decepticons being melted down to make Transformer drones. The K.S.I. CEO, Joshua Joyce, is in league with Attinger to revolutionize global defenses and improve human society using the Seed. He has also used the captured Brains and Megatron's head to create prototype Transformer soldiers, Galvatron and Stinger. The Autobots storm the building and destroy the laboratory, but they soon leave after Joshua declares that they don't need them anymore. Attinger forces Joshua to deploy Galvatron and Stinger to capture the Autobots. During the battle, Galvatron's behavior becomes slightly erratic. As Galvatron battles Optimus, it gets autonomously freed from control. Suddenly, Lockdown arrives and abducts both Optimus and Tessa while Galvatron retreats.

While Lockdown's large prison spacecraft hovers over Chicago to hand over the Seed, Cade, Shane, and the Autobots sneak on board to rescue Optimus and Tessa. They hijack a smaller ship, containing other Transformers called the Dinobots, just before Lockdown leaves Earth. The Autobots learn that Galvatron is Megatron reincarnated, plotting to use the Seed and the Transformer drones to conquer the world and that KSI plans to use the Seed in the Mongolian desert to create vast amounts of usable Transformium. Cade informs Joshua, who agrees to hand over the Seed with help from Darcy and his Chinese business associate Su Yueming. Galvatron reactivates himself and a battle follows in Hong Kong between the Autobots, Cemetery Wind, and the drones. During the fight, Cade sends Savoy plummeting to his death while Optimus frees the Dinobots and wins their allegiance through trial by combat, becoming essential to the Autobots' victory.

Lockdown returns to recapture Optimus and the Dinobots, using a large magnet to cause destruction. After disabling the magnet, Optimus fights Lockdown. In the ensuing duel, Optimus kills Attinger to save Cade, but the distraction allows Lockdown to pin Optimus down with his sword. Cade ends up fighting Lockdown one-on-one while Tessa and Shane use a tow truck to free Optimus, who kills Lockdown before defeating the remaining drones with Lockdown's grenades. Galvatron retreats, vowing to return. Optimus asks the Autobots to protect the Yeagers while Joshua offers to help them build a new home, before flying away into space with the Seed, sending a message to the Creators that he is coming for them.efn|As depicted in "Transformers: The Last Knight" (2017)

####Transformers: Rise of the Beasts####
####Transformers: The Last Knight####
In 484 AD, Merlin finds the Knights of Iacon, a group of Transformers hiding on Earth, seeking their help to aid King Arthur and his knights. They hand him a staff and help Arthur defeat the Saxons, but warn Merlin to hide the staff.

In 2022, five years after the Hong Kong incident,refn|name=Timeline|group=N|As depicted in "Transformers: Age of Extinction" (2014) Optimus Prime arrives on the ruins of Cybertron and meets the mad Cybertronian goddess Quintessa,refn|name=Extinction|group=N|Quintessa sent the mercenary Lockdown to bring Optimus to her, in "Transformers: Age of Extinction". who brainwashes him into Nemesis Prime, and sends him to Earth to retrieve Merlin's staff, to restore the planet by taking Earth's energy core.

On Earth, a new paramilitary task force called the Transformers Reaction Force (TRF) continues to hunt Transformers, while some of its U.S. military personnel, including Colonel William Lennox and General Morshower, are reluctantly against its actions. Cade Yeager, an ally to the Autobots, hides Transformer refugees in his junkyard. In a war-torn Chicago, Cade and Bumblebee meet a scavenger Izabella and her Transformer companion, Sqweeks, before encountering a dying Transformer who gives them a talisman. The TRF confronts Cade to demand the Autobots' location, only to be stopped by Bumblebee, Lennox, and Hound.

Megatron, having abandoned his Galvatron identityrefn|name=Timeline|group=N|As depicted in "Transformers: Age of Extinction" (2014), his remaining Decepticons, and the U.S. government learn of the talisman's value and reluctantly join forces to retrieve it and track Bumblebee to Cade's scrapyard. While the Autobots fend off the Decepticons, Grimlock and the Dinobots ambush a TRF convoy while Cade, his assistant Jimmy, Izabella, and Sqweeks deal with a swarm of TRF drones sent after them. Cogman, a human-sized Transformer, appears and invites Cade to the United Kingdom to meet his employer, Sir Edmund Burton, who is connected to the Transformers. Burton asks another Transformer, Hot Rod, to find Viviane Wembly, a University of Oxford professor.

Burton explains to Cade, Viviane, and Bumblebee that Transformers have been living amongst mankind for centuries, their existence once guarded by a secret society called the Order of Witwiccans, of which he is the last living member. The talisman can lead to Merlin's staff, buried in a Cybertronian spacecraft under the sea. Viviane is revealed to be the direct descendant of Merlin's bloodline and the only one who can activate the staff. The local authorities, MI6, and the British TRF discover them, forcing them to flee. Following clues, while evading their pursuers, the group head to the Royal Navy Museum, where they commandeer the submarine HMS|Alliance|P417|6, also a Transformer, to find the spacecraft while the TRF and the U.S. Navy SEALs tail them.

Burton contacts Seymour Simmons, both learning that Earth is Unicron, and the staff will drain the planet's life via an access point under Stonehenge. Locating the ship, Cade and Viviane find Merlin's tomb with Viviane activating Merlin's buried staff, awakening the Knights of Iacon. The TRF and Navy SEALs ambush Cade and Viviane and take the staff, but are forced to surrender it to Optimus who has arrived to take the staff. Bumblebee, Cade, and Lennox engage Optimus, during which Bumblebee speaks in his voice for the first time after he was given a spare voice box, stirring Optimus's memories and freeing him from Quintessa's control. The Decepticons ambush Optimus and Cade and steal the staff. The Knights arrive to execute Optimus, but yield to Cade and join the humans and the Autobots upon seeing Cade's talisman turn into Excalibur. Burton tries to stop Megatron from activating the staff at Stonehenge, only to get killed.

As Cybertron's remains ravaged Earth, the Autobots, Dragonstorm, and the humans, now working with the reformed TRF, launched a direct assault on Cybertron to defeat the Decepticons, Megatron, and Quintessa. During the battle, Viviane removes the staff and stops the transfer. Optimus defeats Megatron while Bumblebee seemingly kills Quintessa. With both worlds saved, the Autobots leave Earth to rebuild Cybertron.

Meanwhile, Quintessa, having to survive the battle, disguised herself as a human and approaches a group of scientists inspecting one of Unicron's horns and offers them a way to destroy him.

####Tron####
####Tron: Legacy####

In 1989, Kevin Flynn, who was promoted to CEO of ENCOM International seven years earlier,refn|group=N|As depicted at the end of "Tron" (1982). disappears. Twenty years later, his son Sam, now ENCOM's primary shareholder, pranks the corporation by releasing the company's signature operating system online for free. ENCOM executive Alan Bradley, Flynn's old friend, approves of this, believing it aligns with Flynn's ideals of free software. Nonetheless, Sam is arrested for trespassing.

Alan posts bail for Sam and tells him of a pager message originating from Flynn's shuttered video arcade. There Sam discovers a hidden basement with a large computer and laser, which suddenly digitizes and downloads him into the Grid, a virtual reality created by Flynn. He is captured and sent to "the Games", where he must fight a masked computer program named Rinzler. When Sam is injured and bleeds, Rinzler realizes Sam is human, or a "User". He takes Sam to Clu, the Grid's corrupt ruling program, who resembles a young Kevin.

Clu nearly kills Sam in a Light Cycle match, but Sam is rescued by Quorra, an "apprentice" of Flynn, who shows him Flynn's hideout outside Clu's territory. Flynn explains that he had been working to create a "perfect" computer system and had appointed Clu and security program Tron as its co-creators. The trio discovered a species of naturally occurring "isomorphic algorithms" (ISOs), with the potential to resolve various natural mysteries. Clu, considering them an aberration, betrayed Flynn, killed Tron, and destroyed the ISOs. The "Portal" permitting travel between the two worlds closed, leaving Flynn trapped in the system. Clu sent the message to Alan hoping to lure him into the Grid (though Sam serves his purpose just as well) and reopen the Portal for a limited time. Since Flynn's "identity disc" is the master key to the Grid and the only way to traverse the Portal, Clu expects Sam to bring Flynn to the Portal so he can take Flynn's disc, go through the Portal himself, and impose his idea of perfection on the human world.

Against his father's wishes, Sam returns to Clu's territory to find Zuse, a program who can provide safe passage to the Portal. At the End of Line Club, the owner reveals himself to be Zuse, then betrays Sam to Clu's guards. In the resulting fight, Flynn rescues his son, but Quorra is injured and Zuse gains possession of Flynn's disc. Zuse attempts to bargain with Clu over the disc, but Clu betrays him and destroys the club along with Zuse. Flynn and Sam stow away aboard a "Solar Sailer" transport program, where Kevin restores Quorra and reveals her to be the last surviving ISO.

The transport is intercepted by Clu's warship. As a diversion, Quorra allows herself to be captured by Rinzler, whom Flynn recognizes as Tron, not killed by Clu but rather reprogrammed. Sam reclaims Flynn's disc and rescues Quorra, while Flynn takes control of a Light Fighter. Clu, Rinzler, and several guards pursue the trio in Light Jets. Rinzler remembers his past as Tron and deliberately collides with Clu's Light Jet, then falls into the Sea of Simulation below. Clu confronts the others at the Portal, where Flynn reintegrates with his digital duplicate, destroying Clu along with himself, while Quorra – having switched discs with Flynn – gives Flynn's disc to Sam and they escape together to the real world as the ensuing explosion from Flynn's sacrifice levels the Sea of Simulation. In Flynn's arcade, Sam backs up and deactivates the system. He then tells a waiting Alan that he plans to retake control of ENCOM, naming Alan chairman of the board. Sam departs on his motorcycle with Quorra, and she witnesses her first real sunrise.

####Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie####

On the planet Liaria, a wizard named Lerigot is being hunted down by Divatox; an intergalactic space pirate, who is seeking his golden key to traverse an inter-dimensional gateway and enter into matrimony with Maligore, an imprisoned demon who promises her great riches and power. Lerigot escapes Divatox's forces and travels to Earth in search of Zordon and his friend Alpha 5, but arrives in Africa by accident. Weakened by the sun's ultraviolet rays, Lerigot meets a tribe of chimpanzees and wanders off with them. Meanwhile, Divatox heads for Earth in pursuit.

In Angel Grove, Rocky DeSantos, Adam Park, and Tommy Oliver are training for a charity fighting competition to save the Youth Shelter, when Rocky accidentally injures his back. Katherine Hillard and Tanya Sloan arrive with Justin Stewart, a kid who admires Rocky and frequents the shelter. As Rocky is rushed to the hospital, Justin follows the group and learns they are Power Rangers. Zordon sends Tommy and Katherine to search for Lerigot. They manage to find him and return to the Power Chamber.

Searching for two human sacrifices to revive Maligore, Divatox's nephew Elgar, abducts Farkus "Bulk" Bulkmeier and Eugene "Skull" Skullovitch, but Divatox rejects them for not being pure of heart. Upon finding Kimberly Hart and Jason Lee Scott, who are scuba diving nearby, Divatox captures them. While recovering, Lerigot is contacted by Divatox, who has captured his family and demands he surrender himself. Divatox also uses Kimberly and Jason to pressure the Rangers. At the exchange site, Elgar tricks the Rangers and captures Lerigot.

Zordon and Alpha create new powers for the Rangers to defeat Divatox. With these new Turbo powers and new vehicular Turbo Zords, the Rangers travel across the desert to a ship called the Ghost Galleon. They are joined by Justin, who has received Rocky's Blue Ranger powers while Rocky is recovering in the hospital. On Divatox's submarine, Jason and Kimberly come up with a plan to escape, but though Bulk, Skull, and Kimberly escape the sub, Jason is trapped and left behind.

After Divatox and the Rangers traverse the Nemesis Triangle and reach the island where Maligore is, Divatox torpedoes the Ghost Galleon and the Rangers narrowly escape. Kimberly is recaptured and brought to Divatox by the tribal natives of the island who worship Maligore as their god. At the temple in the volcano, the Rangers fail to free Jason and Kimberly before they are possessed by Maligore and attack the Rangers mercilessly, but the Rangers succeed in freeing Lerigot and his wife Yara, who undo the possession.

Angered, Divatox sacrifices her nephew and successfully revives Maligore. The Rangers combined their Turbo Zords and form the Turbo Megazord to fight Maligore. They defeat him as Divatox and Rygog flee, vowing vengeance. The Rangers pick up Jason, Kimberly, Lerigot, Yara, Bulk and Skull and return to Angel Grove. At the competition, Jason takes Rocky's place, and they win the fight, earning the money to save the shelter.

####Two Lost Worlds####
The year is 1830. The American clipper ship, the "Hamilton Queen", is attacked by pirates in the New Hebrides (present day Vanuatu). The ship's mate Kirk Hamilton is wounded and heads to Queensland, Australia for medical treatment. While at the hospital, he meets and falls in love with Elaine Jeffries (Rogers), the fiancée of Martin Shannon a rancher. A romantic rivalry develops and the pirates, who attacked Kirk and his ship kidnap her along with her friend, Nancy Holden. Kirk and Shannon pursue the pirates and they soon wind up on a volcanic island inhabited by dinosaurs.

####Undersea Kingdom####
thu
The plot involves the main character "Crash" Corrigan trying to stop an evil tyrant ruler of Atlantis from conquering the lost continent and then the entire upper world.

Lieutenant Crash Corrigan, in his last year at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, is invited by Billy Norton to visit his father, Professor Norton, after a wrestling match. At their house, the professor is demonstrating his new invention, which can detect and prevent (at short range) earthquakes, to Diana Compton and his theory about regular tremours from the area where Atlantis used to be.

When Atlantean tyrant Unga Khan and his Black Robe army turn their Disintegrator beam on St Clair, Professor Norton leads an expedition to investigate. Along with him in his Rocket Submarine are Crash, Diana, three sailors (Briny Deep, Salty, Joe) and their pet parrot Sinbad. Unknown to the expedition until it is underway and in trouble, Billy has stowed away on the Rocket Sub as well.

Problems for the expedition begin when Joe, in charge of the engine room, is driven mad by the fear that the submarine cannot survive such depths. In order to prove this, he locks the engine room door and sends the sub into a fatal dive. As soon as this crisis is averted, Unga Khan and Captain Hakur detect their approach and bring them through a tunnel into the Inland Sea with a Magnetic Ray.

####Unknown World####
Dr. Jeremiah Morley is concerned about an imminent nuclear war. He organizes an expedition of scientists and has them use a large atomic-powered tank-like boring machine, called the Cyclotram, capable of drilling down deep through the Earth's surface in order to find an underground environment where humanity could escape and survive a future nuclear holocaust.

The expedition (Andy Ostergaard, Dr. Lindsey, Dr. Bauer, Dr. Paxton, and Dr. Coleman) begins after government funding has fallen through, and they are bailed out at the last minute by private funding from newspaper heir Wright Thompson, who insists on going with them as a lark. Romantic rivalry soon develops between Ostergaard and Thompson for Lindsey, and during the dangerous underground expedition two lives are lost to the perils of their adventure.

In the end the scientists accomplish their goal and find an enormous underground expanse with a plentiful air supply, its own large ocean, and phosphorescent light. However, all the lab rabbits brought with them give birth to dead offspring. Through autopsies, it is discovered that this strange underground world has somehow rendered the rabbits, and hence any other life form, sterile. Dr. Morley is deeply depressed by this news. When an underground volcano suddenly erupts, he fails to enter the safety of the Cyclotram and quickly perishes.

The Cyclotram, carrying the remaining survivors, enters the underground ocean to avoid the eruption. They soon find themselves rising toward the surface of the upper world, having been caught up in a strong, upward-moving ocean current. They eventually break the surface near an unknown tropical island.

####Untamed Women####
An American bomber pilot in World War II, Steve Holloway, is rescued by a U.S. Navy flying boat after drifting at sea in a liferaft. When he awakens from a coma at a military hospital, he tells his doctors how his copilot died when he and three of his crew members, Benny, Andy, and Ed, crashed following a bombing mission. The survivors use a liferaft to finally reach an unknown island after being adrift for eight days.

The island is inhabited by prehistoric dinosaurs and reptiles and a tribe of Amazons, who are cavewomen descended from Druids. The Amazons are being plagued by Neanderthal men intent on kidnapping and mating with them. The Neanderthals had previously killed all of the Amazon’s men, and they fear the aircrew to be in league with "the hairy men".

Steve tries to explain the aircrew’s predicament, but hearing that they were fighting a war further convinces the Amazon's leader, Sandra, of the aircrew's ill intent. However, Sandra, later frees the men from their cave cell without telling her followers.

The men follow Sandra's recommended escape route but encounter giant bison, prehistoric creatures, and flesh eating plants. Realizing their chances for survival are slim, they return to the Amazons. During their journey back, they are attacked by a giant armadillo (a Glyptodont), but the Amazons come to their aid just in time.  Myra, Valdra, Tennus, and Cleo reveal that the aircrew’s release was not a friendly act but Sandra's attempt for the indigenous animals and plants to dispose of the four men.

The Neanderthals attack, killing Ed, and the remainder of the aircrew use their pistols to kill them or drive them away. Steve recommends Benny and Andy leave the island in the liferaft. He takes the Amazons to their mountain temple from which they can better defend themselves. Benny and Andy refuse to leave Steve, knowing that the Neanderthals are preparing for another attack, while little of their ammunition remains. The mountain is actually a volcano which suddenly and violently erupts, killing Benny, Andy, and the Amazons. Steve barely makes it back to the liferaft before escaping as the eruption consumes the island.

Despite giving Holloway a serum to restore his speech, the doctors at the hospital find  his adventure incredulous. When they closely examine the medallion that Sandra gave Holloway, its design proves its Druidic origin, verifying his story.

####Untitled Alien film####
####Voyage to the Planet of Prehistoric Women####
Astronauts landing on Venus kill a flying creature that resembles a pterosaur, which is worshiped as a god by the local blonde Venusian women. They attempt to kill the astronauts by means of their superhuman powers, but ultimately fail. The astronauts eventually escape from Venus, and their abandoned robot, damaged in a flow of volcanic mud and ultimately shut down by the humans for their survival, becomes, in a surprise plot twist ending, the women's new god.

####War for the Planet of the Apes####

A ruthless colonel leads a paramilitary population in an attempt to find Caesar and his tribe of intelligent apes with help from traitorous apes the militia refer to as "donkeys".efn|As depicted in "Dawn of the Planet of the Apes" (2014) A platoon finds an ape outpost, but the apes kill most of them and capture the survivors before releasing them as a sign of peace. Caesar's eldest son, Blue Eyes, and friend Rocket return from an oasis while searching for a safer home. Caesar plans to relocate them at a later date due to the sheer size of the tribe, but later that night, the colonel leads a team in infiltrating the apes' home and kills Caesar's wife and Blue Eyes after mistaking him for Caesar.

Caesar, accompanied by Rocket, orangutan Maurice and gorilla Luca leave to serve as a decoy while the rest of the tribe leave for the oasis. While searching for information on the militia's movements, Caesar kills a paramilitary in self-defense and finds the man's mute daughter, whom Maurice befriends and later names Nova, giving her a rag doll. Some people who were also mute were killed by their fellow militiamen meanwhile Caesar's group encounter another intelligent ape named Bad Ape, who informs them that the militia is at a quarantine facility with an arsenal in the mountains. Joined by Bad Ape, Caesar's group find the humans, but Luca is killed and Caesar is captured. Inside the facility, Caesar discovers the rest of his tribe was also captured and being forced to build a wall without food or water.

Caesar learns that the paramilitaries are barricading the facility to fend off the United States army. The colonel tells that the simian flu has mutated, leaving the infected mute and primitive, so he have been ordering his people to kill the carriers to avoid a second flu pandemic. The United States army has been convinced that nature could be manipulated again to provide a cure and medicine. After sustaining punishment from the militia and a donkey named Red, Caesar eventually convinces the Colonel to give the other apes food and water while he starves in their place. Nova sneaks into the facility to give water and her doll, Rocket allows himself to be captured to prevent her from being seen. The next morning, the colonel discovers and confiscates the doll.

Upon discovering an underground tunnel leading out of the facility, Maurice, Bad Ape, and Nova coordinate with Rocket and Caesar to rescue the apes, but they get caught in the army's attack on the paramilitaries. Caesar sneaks into the colonel's quarters. The colonel had been infected by Nova's doll and, after being spared by Caesar, commits suicide. While escaping, Caesar attempts to destroy a fuel tank to take out the militia from behind but is shot by Preacher, one of the paramilitaries he set free. Seeing this, Red has a change of heart and kills Preacher before he is himself shot dead. Caesar detonates the tank, triggering an avalanche that buries the militia and the army while the apes and Nova climb nearby trees to safety.

The tribe eventually reaches the oasis, where Maurice discovers Caesar’s fatal wound. Maurice promises Caesar that he will tell his son who he was and what he did for the apes. Satisfied knowing his people are finally safe, Caesar dies peacefully.

####War of the Worlds (2005 film)####
<!-- Per WP:FILMPLOT, film plot summaries should be between 400 and 700 words.-->
A narrator opens the film stating that extraterrestrials with immense intelligence have grown envious of humanity's dominion of Earth, and are plotting against them.

Divorced longshoreman Ray Ferrier works as a crane operator at a dock in Brooklyn, New York, and is estranged from his children: 10-year-old daughter Rachel, and teenage son Robbie. Ray's pregnant former wife, Mary Ann, drops the two off at his house in Bayonne, New Jersey on her way to visit her parents in Boston. Later, a strange storm occurs during which lightning strikes multiple times into the middle of a nearby intersection, causing an EMP that instantly fries almost all electronic devices. Ray joins the crowd at the scene of the impacts, where a massive "tripod" war machine emerges from the ground and uses powerful energy weapons to destroy the area, disintegrating most of the witnesses into gray ash.

Ray collects his children, steals the only working van, and drives to Mary Ann's empty home in suburban New Jersey to take refuge. That night, they take shelter in the basement, but they soon hear a strange roaring noise followed by an explosion that destroys the house. At daybreak, they discover that a Boeing 747 had crashed into the neighborhood. Ray meets a wandering TV news team scavenging the wreckage for food, wherein a correspondent reveals that tripods have attacked major cities around the world, and that they have force shields that protect them from humanity's defenses. She adds that the tripods' pilots traveled to Earth within the lightning storms to enter their machines, which were apparently buried underground for thousands of years.

Ray decides to drive the kids to Boston to be with their mother, but a desperate mob swarms their vehicle, forcing them to abandon it. They eventually get to a Hudson River ferry, only to be surrounded by tripods, which either massacre or abduct many of the refugees, but Ray's family manages to escape. They witness US Marines engaging in a battle with some tripods. Much to Ray's dismay, Robbie joins the futile fight against the aliens out of hatred for the invaders, while Ray and Rachel quickly flee. The Marines are obliterated, with Robbie presumed to have been killed with them. Shortly afterward, the pair are offered shelter in a nearby house by a deranged former ambulance driver named Harlan Ogilvy.

The three remain undetected for several hours, even as a tripod's camera drone and a group of aliens explore the basement. They soon discover that the aliens have started cultivating a red-colored vegetation across the landscape that is quickly spreading. A few hours later, Harlan suffers a mental breakdown after witnessing the tripods harvesting human blood and tissue to fertilize the alien vegetation. Fearing his mad shouting will alert the aliens, Ray reluctantly kills him. A second tripod camera then catches the Ferriers sleeping, causing Rachel to flee outside and be abducted by the tripod. Chasing after the tripod, Ray grabs a belt of grenades from a destroyed military truck, then intentionally attracts the aliens' attention and is pulled into the tripod. With the other abductees' help, Ray destroys the tripod from within with the grenades.

A few days later, Ray and Rachel arrive in Boston, where they find the alien vegetation withering and the tripods inexplicably collapsing. When an active tripod appears, Ray notices birds landing on it, indicating that its force shields have been disabled. He alerts the soldiers escorting the fleeing crowd, who shoot it down with anti-tank missiles. As the soldiers advance on the downed tripod, a hatch opens and a pale, sickly alien struggles halfway out before dying. Ray and Rachel finally reach Mary Ann's parents' house, where they are reunited with Mary Ann and Robbie, who have somehow survived.

In closing, the narrator explains that the aliens died because they were vulnerable to the countless microbes that inhabit the Earth, which "God in His wisdom" placed on the planet.

####A Wrinkle in Time (2018 film)####

Thirteen-year-old Meg Murry struggles to adjust at school due to bullying and depression, four years after the disappearance of her father Alex, a renowned astrophysicist. Meg and her gifted younger brother Charles Wallace are sent to the principal after Charles scolds a pair of gossiping teachers, and Meg retaliates against Veronica, Meg's neighbor and longtime bully. Meg and her mother Kate discover Charles with an unusual visitor, Mrs. Whatsit, who claims that the tesseract – a method of space travel Alex was studying – is real.

Meg and Charles meet her classmate Calvin O'Keefe, who joins them at the house of Mrs. Who, another strange friend of Charles who speaks only in quotations. Calvin has dinner with the Murrys, and Kate remembers Alex's commitment to their research despite public ridicule. In the backyard, Mrs. Whatsit and Mrs. Who appear with Mrs. Which, revealing themselves as astral travelers. Explaining that they have come to help find Alex, who has transported himself across the universe, the Misses lead Meg, Calvin, and Charles through a tesseract to the distant planet Uriel.

The planet's sentient flowers confirm that Alex visited Uriel, and Mrs. Whatsit transforms into a flying creature, carrying the children into the sky. Calvin nearly falls to his death after noticing a dark planet that Mrs. Which identifies as Camazotz, home to an evil energy known as "the IT". They tesser to the planet Orion to seek the help of a seer named Happy Medium. Mrs. Which reveals that the IT spreads negativity throughout the universe, including on Earth: Charles' gossiping teachers were jealous of the principal's promotion; Veronica judges herself for her weight; the Murrys' kindly neighbor is mugged by severely insecure teens; and Calvin's father is an abusive perfectionist.

Happy Medium helps Meg overcome her self-doubt, and they learn that her father tessered to Uriel, then Ixchel, but was trapped on Camazotz. The Misses insist they regroup on Earth, but Meg's determination to save her father overrides the tesseract, unintentionally redirecting them to Camazotz. Unable to stay, as Camazotz's evil is stronger than their light, the Misses bestow gifts before departing: Mrs. Who gives Meg her glasses to see what is really there, Mrs. Whatsit gives Meg the knowledge of her faults, and Mrs. Which gives the children the command to never separate.

A forest appears, separating Meg and Calvin from Charles, and they are pursued by a tornado-like storm. Meg uses the storm's own force to slingshot her and Calvin atop a cliff wall, where they reunite with Charles. They find themselves in a neighborhood of look-alike homes, children, and mothers; one woman invites them inside but Meg declines, reminding Calvin and Charles not to trust anyone. Their surroundings transform into a crowded beach, where a man introduces himself as Red, assuring them Alex is safe, and offers them food. When Charles says it tastes like sand, Red possesses him through the IT, which Red is actually a puppet of.

Meg and Calvin chase after Red and Charles through the crowd, but are trapped in a seemingly empty, spherical room. Red deactivates while Charles taunts Meg and Calvin. Using Mrs. Who's glasses, Meg finds an invisible staircase to another room where her father is imprisoned. After a tearful reunion, they are dragged by Charles to meet his master. As Calvin and Meg fall under the IT's power, Alex opens a tesseract to escape with the two of them. Refusing to abandon Charles, Meg projects back to Camazotz and confronts the IT in its malevolent, neuron-like form.

Charles and the IT try to force Meg to give in to darkness, menacing her with an idealized version of herself, but Meg embraces her own imperfections and uses her love for her brother to free him. The IT dissipates as the Misses reappear, congratulating Meg and Charles on becoming "warriors of light", and Meg tessers them home. Alex is reunited with his family, and Calvin leaves to confront his father, as Meg looks to the sky, thanking the Misses.

####X-Men Origins: Wolverine####
In 1845, James Howlett, a boy living in the Northwest Territories, witnesses his father being killed by groundskeeper Thomas Logan. Anxiety activates the boy's mutation: Bone claws protrude from his knuckles, and he impales Thomas, who reveals that he is James' biological father before dying. James flees along with Thomas' other son, Victor Creed, who is James' half-brother and has a sharp claw-nails and healing factor mutation like James. They spend the next century as soldiers, fighting in the American Civil War, both World Wars and the Vietnam War in 1973. In Vietnam, the increasingly violent Victor attempts to rape a Vietnamese woman and kills a senior officer who tries to stop him. James returns to Victor, and ignorant of his brother's intent, rushes to defend him. The pair are sentenced to execution by firing squad, which they survive. Major William Stryker offers them membership in Team X, a group of mutants including marksman Agent Zero, katana-wielding mercenary Wade Wilson, teleporter John Wraith, super-strong and invulnerable Fred Dukes, and technopath Chris Bradley. They join the team for a few missions, with James using the alias Logan, but Victor and the group's lack of self-control and empathy causes Logan to leave.

Years later, Logan works as a logger in Canada, where he lives with his girlfriend Kayla Silverfox. Stryker and Zero approach Logan, reporting that Wade and Bradley have been killed; someone is targeting the team. Logan refuses to rejoin Stryker, but after finding Kayla's bloodied body in the woods, realizes that Victor is responsible. He finds Victor at a bar but loses the subsequent fight. Stryker explains that Victor has gone rogue and offers Logan a way to become strong enough to get his revenge. Logan undergoes a painful operation to reinforce his skeleton with adamantium, a virtually indestructible metal. Stryker orders that Logan's memory be erased so he can be used as Stryker's personal weapon, but Logan overhears and escapes to a nearby farm, where an elderly couple takes him in. Zero kills the couple the following morning and tries to kill Logan. Logan takes down Zero's helicopter and swears to kill both Stryker and Victor. He then blows up the helicopter, killing Zero.

Logan locates Wraith and Dukes at a boxing gym in Las Vegas. Dukes, who has ballooned in size due to a guilt-induced eating disorder, explains that Victor still works for Stryker, hunting down mutants for Stryker to experiment on at his new laboratory, located at a place called "The Island". Dukes also mentions Remy "Gambit" LeBeau, the only one who escaped from the island and therefore knows its location. Wraith and Logan find LeBeau in New Orleans, then both fight Victor, who kills Wraith and extracts his DNA. Agreeing to help release mutants that Stryker has captured, Gambit takes Logan to Stryker's facility on Three Mile Island. Logan learns that Kayla is alive, having been forced by Stryker into surveilling him in exchange for her sister's safety. However, Stryker refuses to release her sister and denies Victor the adamantium bonding promised for his service, claiming that test results revealed Victor would not survive the operation. Stryker activates Wade, now known as Weapon XI, a "mutant killer" with the powers of multiple mutants.

While Logan and Victor fight off Weapon XI, Kayla is mortally wounded leading the captive mutants to Professor Charles Xavier and safety. After Logan kills Weapon XI, Stryker arrives and shoots Logan in the head with adamantium bullets, rendering him unconscious. Before Stryker can shoot Kayla, she grabs him and uses her mutant power to persuade him to turn around and walk away until his feet bleed, then succumbs to her injuries. Logan regains consciousness but has lost his memory. He notices his dog tags read "Logan" on one side and "Wolverine" on the other. He pauses upon noticing Kayla's body, but does not recognize her.

In a mid-credits scene, Stryker is detained for questioning by MPs in connection with the death of General Munson, whom Stryker murdered to protect his experiment. In a post-credits scene, Weapon XI crawls out of the rocks and touches his head, which awakens and shushes the screen, revealing that he has survived being decapitated.

####X-Men: First Class####

In 1944, at the Auschwitz concentration camp, Nazi officer Klaus Schmidt witnesses young prisoner Erik Lehnsherr bend a metal gate with his mind upon being separated from his mother. In his office, Schmidt orders Erik to move a coin on his desk, and kills his mother when Erik can't. In grief and anger, Erik's magnetic power manifests, killing two guards and destroying the room. Separately, at a mansion in Westchester County, New York, child telepath Charles Xavier meets young shapeshifter Raven, whose natural form is blue-skinned and scaly. Overjoyed to meet someone "different", like himself, he invites her to live with his family as his foster sister.

In 1962, Erik is tracking down Schmidt to avenge his mother, while Xavier earns his doctorate from the University of Oxford as Professor of Genetics. In Las Vegas, CIA officer Moira MacTaggert follows U.S. Army Colonel Hendry into the Hellfire Club, where she sees Schmidt (now called Sebastian Shaw) with mutant telepath Emma Frost, cyclone-producing Riptide, and teleporter Azazel. Threatened by Shaw and teleported to the Joint War Room, Hendry advocates deploying nuclear missiles in Turkey. Shaw, an energy-absorbing mutant whose powers have kept him young, later kills Hendry.

Moira, seeking Xavier's advice on mutation, takes him and Raven to the CIA, where they convince Director <!-- He is only credited as McCone in the film -->McCone that mutants exist and Shaw is a threat. Another CIA officer sponsors the mutants and invites them to the secret "Division X" facility. Moira and Xavier find Shaw as Erik is attacking him, and rescue Erik from drowning. Shaw escapes. Xavier brings Erik to Division X, where they meet young scientist Hank McCoy, a mutant with prehensile feet, who believes Raven's DNA may provide a "cure" for their appearance. Xavier uses McCoy's mutant-locating device Cerebro to seek recruits against Shaw. Xavier and Erik recruit stripper Angel Salvadore, cabbie Armando Muñoz, Army prisoner Alex Summers, and drifter Sean Cassidy. They create nicknames, Raven dubbing herself "Mystique".

When Frost meets with a Soviet general in the USSR, and uses her telepathic powers to manipulate him, Xavier and Erik capture her and discover Shaw intends to start World War III, triggering mutant ascendency. Azazel, Riptide and Shaw attack Division X, killing everyone but the mutants, whom Shaw invites to join him. Salvadore accepts; when Alex and Muñoz retaliate, Shaw kills Muñoz. In Moscow, Shaw compels the general to have the USSR install missiles in Cuba. Wearing a helmet that blocks telepathy, Shaw follows the Soviet fleet in a submarine to ensure the missiles break a U.S. blockade.

McCoy uses the cure on himself but it backfires, giving him blue fur and leonine aspects. With McCoy piloting, the mutants and Moira take a jet to the blockade line, where Xavier uses his telepathy to influence a Soviet sailor to destroy the ship carrying the missiles, and Erik uses his magnetic power to lift Shaw's submarine from the water and deposit it on land. During the ensuing battle, Erik seizes Shaw's helmet, allowing Xavier to immobilize Shaw. While Shaw is helpless, Erik reveals he shares Shaw's exclusivist view of mutants but, to avenge his mother, uses his power to kill Shaw by slowly pushing a Nazi coin through Shaw's brain, killing him. Unable to risk releasing Shaw, Xavier begs Erik to stop, but is forced to experience the pain of Shaw's death.

Both fleets fire missiles at the mutants, which Erik turns back in mid-flight. Moira tries to stop Erik by shooting him but he deflects the bullets, one of which hits Xavier in the spine. Erik rushes to help Xavier and, distracted, allows the missiles to fall harmlessly into the ocean. Parting with Xavier over their differing views on the relationship between mutants and humans, Erik leaves with Salvadore, Azazel, Riptide and Mystique. Later, a wheelchair-using Xavier and his mutants are at the mansion, where he intends to open a school. Moira promises Xavier never to reveal his location, but Xavier makes sure of this by wiping her memories. Meanwhile, Erik, along with Mystique and the other Hellfire Club members, frees Frost from confinement and dubs himself "Magneto".

####List of Marvel Cinematic Universe film actors####
####List of Marvel Cinematic Universe film actors (The Infinity Saga)####
####List of Marvel Cinematic Universe films####
####Untitled Eternals sequel####
####Untitled Spider-Man: No Way Home sequel####
####A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to Thor's Hammer####
####The Avengers (2012 film)####

The Asgardian Loki encounters the Other, the leader of an extraterrestrial race known as the Chitauri. In exchange for retrieving the Tesseract,efn|Producer Kevin Feige stated that the Tesseract is based on the Cosmic Cube from the Marvel Comics.<ref name="movieline" /> After "Thor: The Dark World" (2013), he stated that it was also the Space Stone.<ref name="CraveOnline3" /> a powerful energy source of unknown potential, the Other promises Loki an army with which he can subjugate Earth. Nick Fury, director of the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D., arrives at a remote research facility, where physicist Dr. Erik Selvig is leading a team experimenting on the Tesseract. The Tesseract suddenly activates and opens a wormhole, allowing Loki to reach Earth. Loki steals the Tesseract and uses his scepter to enslave Selvig and other agents, including Clint Barton, to aid him.

In response, Fury reactivates the "Avengers Initiative". Agent Natasha Romanoff heads to Kolkata to recruit Dr. Bruce Banner to trace the Tesseract through its gamma radiation emissions. Fury approaches Steve Rogers to retrieve the Tesseract, and Agent Phil Coulson visits Tony Stark to have him check Selvig's research. Loki is in Stuttgart, where Barton steals the iridium needed to stabilize the Tesseract's power, leading to a confrontation with Rogers, Stark, and Romanoff that ends with Loki's surrender. While Loki gets escorted to S.H.I.E.L.D., his adoptive brother Thor arrives and frees him, hoping to convince him to abandon his plan and return to Asgard. Stark and Rogers intervene and Loki is taken to S.H.I.E.L.D.'s flying aircraft carrier, the Helicarrier, where he is imprisoned.

The Avengers become divided over how to approach Loki and the revelation that S.H.I.E.L.D. plans to harness the Tesseract to develop powerful weapons as a deterrent against hostile extraterrestrials. As they argue, Loki's agents attack the Helicarrier, and the stress causes Banner to transform into the Hulk. Stark and Rogers work to restart the damaged engine, and Thor attempts to stop the Hulk's rampage. Romanoff knocks Barton unconscious, breaking Loki's mind control. Loki escapes after killing Coulson and Fury uses Coulson's death to motivate the Avengers into working as a team. Loki uses the Tesseract and a wormhole generator Selvig built to open a wormhole above Stark Tower to the Chitauri fleet in space, launching his invasion.

Rogers, Stark, Romanoff, Barton, Thor, and the Hulk rally in defense of New York City, and together the Avengers battle the Chitauri. The Hulk beats Loki into submission. Romanoff makes her way to the generator, where Selvig, freed from Loki's mind control, reveals that Loki's scepter can shut down the generator. Fury's superiors from the World Security Council attempt to end the invasion by launching a nuclear missile at Midtown Manhattan. Stark intercepts the missile and takes it through the wormhole toward the Chitauri fleet. The missile detonates, destroying the Chitauri mothership and disabling their forces on Earth. Stark's suit loses power and he goes into freefall, but the Hulk saves him, while Romanoff uses Loki's scepter to close the wormhole. In the aftermath, Thor returns with Loki and the Tesseract to Asgard, where Loki will face their justice.

In a mid-credits scene, the Other confers with his masterefn|Feige confirmed that the "master" in the post-credits scene is Thanos.<ref name="EmpirePodcast" /><!-- NOTE! Per WP:EASTEREGG, Please see that this footnote DOES INDICATE THIS IS THANOS, as he is not identified in the film --> about the failed attack on Earth. <!-- Please do NOT add the Shawarma post-credit scene here per WP:FILMPLOT on the talk page. Please see the talk page discussion for more, or to voice your opinion on the matter. -->

####Captain America: The First Avenger####


In the present day, scientists in the Arctic uncover an old, frozen aircraft. In March 1942, Nazi lieutenant general Johann Schmidt and his men steal a mysterious relic called the Tesseract,efn|Producer Kevin Feige stated that the Tesseract of the films is based on the Cosmic Cube of the comics.<ref name="MLCC" /> After "Thor: The Dark World" (2013), he further stated it was also the Space Stone.<ref name="SpaceStone" /> which possesses untold godly powers, from the town of Tønsberg in German-occupied Norway.

In New York City, Steve Rogers is rejected for World War II military recruitment due to his various health and physical problems. While attending an exhibition of future technologies with his best friend, Sgt. James "Bucky" Barnes, Rogers again attempts to enlist. Overhearing Rogers' conversation with Barnes about representing his country in the war, Dr. Abraham Erskine allows Rogers to enlist. He is recruited into the Strategic Scientific Reserve as part of a "super-soldier" experiment under Erskine, Colonel Chester Phillips, and British MI6 agent Peggy Carter. Phillips is unconvinced by Erskine's claims that Rogers is the right person for the procedure but relents after seeing Rogers jump on a grenade to save his comrades, unaware that it is a test. The night before the treatment, Erskine reveals to Rogers that Schmidt underwent the procedure prematurely and suffered permanent side-effects.

Schmidt and Dr. Arnim Zola harness the energies of the Tesseract, intending to use the power to fuel Zola's inventions, mounting an offensive that will change the world. Schmidt discovers Erskine's location and sends assassin Heinz Kruger to kill him. Erskine subjects Rogers to the super-soldier treatment, injecting him with a special serum and dosing him with "vita-rays". After Rogers emerges from the experiment taller and more muscular, an undercover Kruger kills Erskine and flees with a vial of the serum. Rogers pursues and captures Kruger, but the assassin avoids interrogation by committing suicide with a cyanide capsule. With Erskine dead and his super-soldier formula lost, U.S. Senator Brandt has Rogers tour the nation in a colorful costume as "Captain America" to promote war bonds while scientists study him and attempt to reverse-engineer the formula. In 1943, while on tour in Italy performing for active servicemen, Rogers learns that Barnes' unit was MIA in a battle against Schmidt's forces. Refusing to believe that Barnes is dead, Rogers has Carter and engineer Howard Stark fly him behind enemy lines to mount a solo rescue attempt. Rogers infiltrates the fortress of Schmidt's Hydra division, freeing Barnes and the other prisoners. Rogers confronts Schmidt, who removes a mask to reveal a red, skull-like visage that earned him the sobriquet "the Red Skull". Schmidt escapes and Rogers returns to base with the freed soldiers.

Rogers recruits Barnes, Dum Dum Dugan, Gabe Jones, Jim Morita, James Montgomery Falsworth, and Jacques Dernier to attack other known Hydra bases. Stark outfits Rogers with advanced equipment, most notably a circular shield made of vibranium, a rare, nearly indestructible metal. Rogers and his team sabotage various Hydra operations, while he and Carter begin to fall in love. In 1945, the team assaults a train carrying Zola. Rogers and Jones succeed in capturing Zola, but Barnes falls from the train to his apparent death.efn|Speaking together, with some crosstalk, Joe Johnston, Shelly Johnson, and Jeffrey Ford said on the audio commentary that the experiments performed by Zola enabled Barnes to survive the fall shown in the film.<ref name="DVD" /> Using information extracted from Zola, the final Hydra stronghold is located, and Rogers leads an attack to stop Schmidt from using weapons of mass destruction on major American cities. Rogers climbs aboard Schmidt's aircraft as it takes off. During the subsequent fight, the Tesseract's container is damaged. Schmidt physically handles the Tesseract, causing him to be sucked into a portal into space. The Tesseract burns through the plane and is lost in the ocean. Seeing no way to land the plane without the risk of detonating its weapons, Rogers radios Carter and says goodbye to her before crashing in the Arctic. Stark later recovers the Tesseract from the ocean floor but is unable to locate Rogers or the aircraft, presuming him dead.

Rogers awakens in a 1940s-styled hospital room. Hearing a radio broadcast of a baseball game that he attended in 1941, Rogers grows suspicious, flees outside and finds himself in present-day Times Square, where S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury informs him that he has been "asleep" for nearly 70 years. In a post-credits scene, Fury approaches Rogers and proposes a mission with worldwide ramifications.efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012)

####The Incredible Hulk (film)####

At Culver University in Virginia, General Thaddeus "Thunderbolt" Ross meets with Dr. Bruce Banner, the colleague and boyfriend of his daughter Betty, regarding an experiment that Ross claims is meant to make humans immune to gamma radiation. The experiment—part of a World War II-era "super soldier" program that Ross hopes to re-create—fails. The exposure to gamma radiation causes Banner to transform into the Hulk for brief periods of time, whenever his heart rate rises above 200 beats per minute. The Hulk destroys the lab and surrounding area, killing several people inside and injuring the General and Betty, and others outside. Banner becomes a fugitive from the U.S. military and Ross, who wants to weaponize the Hulk.

Five years later,efn|According to Leterrier, the film takes place about five years since Banner first transformed.<ref name="Timeline" /> The events of the film also take place simultaneously with the events of "Iron Man 2" (2010) and "Thor" (2011),<ref name="Phase1Timeline" /> the former of which is set six months after the events of "Iron Man" (2008).<ref name="IM2Timeline" /> Banner works at a bottling factory in Rocinha, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, while searching for a cure for his condition. On the internet, he anonymously collaborates with a colleague known only as "Mr. Blue." He is learning Yoga techniques to help keep control and has not transformed in five months. After Banner cuts his finger, a drop of his blood falls into a bottle, which is eventually ingested by an elderly consumer in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, giving him gamma sickness. Using the bottle to track down Banner, Ross sends a special forces team, led by Emil Blonsky, to capture him. Banner transforms into the Hulk and defeats Blonsky's team, with Blonsky surviving. After Ross explains how Banner became the Hulk, Blonsky agrees to be injected with a small amount of a similar serum, which gives him enhanced speed, strength, agility, and healing powers but also begins to deform his skeleton and impairs his judgment.

Banner returns to Culver University and reunites with Betty. Banner is attacked a second time by Ross and Blonsky's forces, tipped off by Betty's suspicious boyfriend, Leonard Samson, causing Banner to again transform into the Hulk. The ensuing battle outside the university proves futile for Ross's forces, and they retreat, though Blonsky, whose sanity is faltering, attacks and mocks the Hulk. The Hulk severely injures Blonsky and flees with Betty. After the Hulk reverts to Banner, he and Betty go on the run, and Banner contacts Mr. Blue, who urges them to meet him in New York City. Mr. Blue is actually cellular biologist Dr. Samuel Sterns, who tells Banner he has developed a possible antidote to Banner's condition. After a successful test, he warns Banner that the antidote may only reverse each transformation. Sterns reveals he has synthesized Banner's blood samples, which Banner sent from Brazil, into a large supply, to apply its "limitless potential" to medicine. Fearful of the Hulk's power falling into the military's hands, Banner wishes to destroy the blood supply.

A recovered Blonsky joins Ross's forces for a third attempt to take Banner into custody. They succeed, and Banner and Betty are taken away in a helicopter. Blonsky stays behind and orders Sterns to inject him with Banner's blood, as he covets the Hulk's power. The experiment mutates Blonsky into the Abomination, a creature with size and strength surpassing that of the Hulk. He attacks Sterns, who gets some of Banner's blood in a cut on his forehead, causing him to begin mutating as well. The Abomination rampages through Harlem. Realizing that the Hulk is the only one who can stop the Abomination, Banner convinces Ross to release him. He jumps from Ross's helicopter and transforms after hitting the ground. After a battle throughout Harlem, the Hulk defeats the Abomination by nearly strangling him to death with a chain, but spares his life upon hearing Betty's plea and leaves the Abomination for Ross and his forces to arrest. After having a peaceful moment with Betty, the Hulk flees New York.

A month later, Banner is in Bella Coola, British Columbia. Instead of suppressing his transformation, he begins to transform in a controlled manner with a slight smirk. Later, Tony Stark approaches Ross at a local bar and informs him that a team is being put together.efn|The team is identified offscreen as the Avengers.

####Iron Man (2008 film)####
Tony Stark, who has inherited the defense contractor Stark Industries from his late father Howard Stark, is in war-torn Afghanistan with his friend and military liaison, Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes, to demonstrate the new "Jericho" missile. After the demonstration, his convoy is ambushed and Stark is critically wounded by a missile used by the attackers—one of his company's own. He is captured and imprisoned in a cave by a terrorist group called the Ten Rings. Yinsen, a fellow captive and doctor, implants an electromagnet into Stark's chest to keep the shrapnel shards that wounded him from reaching his heart and killing him. Ten Rings leader Raza offers Stark freedom in exchange for building a Jericho missile for the group, but he and Yinsen believe that Raza will not keep his word.

Stark and Yinsen secretly build a small, powerful electric generator called an arc reactor to power Stark's electromagnet and a prototype suit of powered armor to aid in their escape. Although they keep the suit hidden almost to completion, the Ten Rings discover their hostages' intentions and attack the workshop. Yinsen sacrifices himself to divert them while the suit powers up. The armored Stark battles his way out of the cave to find the dying Yinsen, then burns the Ten Rings' weapons and flies away, crashing in the desert and destroying the suit. After being rescued by Rhodes, Stark returns home and announces that his company will cease manufacturing weapons. Obadiah Stane, his father's old partner and the company's manager, advises Stark that this may ruin Stark Industries and his father's legacy. In his home workshop, Stark builds a sleeker, more powerful version of his improvised armor suit as well as a more powerful arc reactor for it and his chest. Personal assistant Pepper Potts places the original reactor inside a small glass showcase. Though Stane requests details, a suspicious Stark decides to keep his work to himself.

At a charity event held by Stark Industries, reporter Christine Everhart informs Stark that his company's weapons were recently delivered to the Ten Rings and are being used to attack Yinsen's home village, Gulmira. Stark dons his new armor and flies to Afghanistan, where he saves the villagers. While flying home, Stark is attacked by two F-22 Raptors. He reveals his secret identity to Rhodes over the phone in an attempt to end the attack. Meanwhile, the Ten Rings gather the pieces of Stark's prototype suit and meet with Stane, who has been trafficking arms to the Ten Rings and has staged a coup to replace Stark as Stark Industries' CEO by hiring the Ten Rings to kill him. He subdues Raza and has the rest of the group killed. Stane has a massive new suit reverse-engineered from the wreckage. Seeking to track his company's illegal shipments, Stark sends Potts to hack into its database. She discovers that Stane hired the Ten Rings to kill Stark, but the group reneged when they realized they had a direct route to Stark's weapons. Potts meets with Agent Phil Coulson of S.H.I.E.L.D., an intelligence agency, to inform him of Stane's activities.

Stane's scientists cannot duplicate Stark's miniaturized arc reactor, so Stane ambushes Stark at his home and steals the one from his chest. Stark manages to replace it with his original reactor. Potts and several S.H.I.E.L.D. agents attempt to arrest Stane, but he dons his suit and attacks them. Stark fights Stane but is outmatched without his new reactor to run his suit at full capacity. The fight carries Stark and Stane to the top of the Stark Industries building, where Stark instructs Potts to overload the large arc reactor powering the building. This unleashes a massive electrical surge that causes Stane and his armor to fall into the exploding reactor, killing him. The next day, at a press conference, Stark publicly admits to being the superhero the press has dubbed "Iron Man".

In a post-credits scene, S.H.I.E.L.D. director Nick Fury visits Stark at home, telling him that Iron Man is not "the only superhero in the world", and explaining that he wants to discuss the "Avenger Initiative".

####Iron Man 2####
####The Consultant (film)####
####Thor (film)####

In 965 AD, Odin, king of Asgard, wages war against the Frost Giants of Jotunheim and their leader Laufey, to prevent them from conquering the Nine Realms, starting with Earth. The Asgardian warriors defeat the Frost Giants in Tønsberg, Norway, and seize the source of their power, the Casket of Ancient Winters.

In the present,efn|The events of the film also take place simultaneously with the events of "The Incredible Hulk" (2008) and "Iron Man 2" (2010),<ref name="Phase1Timeline" /> the latter of which is set six months after the events of "Iron Man" (2008).<ref name="IM2Timeline" /> Odin's son Thor prepares to ascend to the throne of Asgard, but is interrupted when Frost Giants, secretly allowed in by his brother Loki, attempt to retrieve the Casket. Against Odin's order, Thor travels to Jotunheim to confront Laufey, accompanied by Loki, childhood friend Sif and the Warriors Three: Volstagg, Fandral, and Hogun. A battle ensues until Odin intervenes to save the Asgardians, destroying the fragile truce between the two races. For Thor's arrogance, Odin strips his son of his godly power and exiles him to Earth as a mortal, accompanied by his hammer Mjölnir, now protected by an enchantment that allows only the worthy to wield it.

Thor lands in New Mexico, where astrophysicist Dr. Jane Foster, her assistant Darcy Lewis, and mentor Dr. Erik Selvig find him. The local populace finds Mjolnir, which S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Phil Coulson soon commandeers before forcibly acquiring Foster's data about the wormhole that delivered Thor to Earth. Thor, having discovered Mjölnir's nearby location, seeks to retrieve it from the facility that S.H.I.E.L.D. has constructed, but he finds himself unable to lift it and is captured. With Selvig's help, he is freed and resigns himself to exile on Earth as he develops a romance with Foster.

Loki discovers that he is Laufey's biological son, adopted by Odin after the war ended. Loki confronts Odin, who wearily falls into the deep "Odinsleep" to recover his strength. Loki takes the throne in Odin's stead and offers Laufey the chance to kill Odin and retrieve the Casket. Sif and the Warriors Three, unhappy with Loki's rule, attempt to return Thor from exile, convincing Heimdall, gatekeeper of the Bifröst—the means of traveling between worlds—to allow them passage to Earth. Aware of their plan, Loki sends the Destroyer, a seemingly indestructible automaton, to pursue them and kill Thor. The warriors find Thor, but the Destroyer attacks and defeats them, prompting Thor to offer himself instead. Struck by the Destroyer and near death, Thor proves himself worthy by his sacrifice to wield Mjölnir. The hammer returns to him, restoring his powers and enabling him to defeat the Destroyer. Kissing Foster goodbye and vowing to return, he leaves with his fellow Asgardians to confront Loki.

In Asgard, Loki betrays and kills Laufey. Thor arrives and Loki reveals his plan to destroy Jotunheim with the Bifröst Bridge. Thor fights Loki before destroying the Bifröst Bridge to stop Loki's plan, stranding himself in Asgard. Odin awakens and prevents the brothers from falling into the abyss created in the wake of the bridge's destruction, but Loki allows himself to fall when Odin rejects his pleas for approval. Loki ends up falling into a wormhole and arrives at Earth. Thor makes amends with Odin, admitting he is not ready to be king; meanwhile, on Earth, Foster and her team search for a way to open a portal to Asgard.

In a post-credits scene, Selvig is taken to a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility, where Nick Fury opens a briefcase and asks him to study a mysterious cube-shaped object,efn|Identified off-screen as the Tesseract.<ref name="Tesseract" /><ref name="Tesseract2" /> which Fury says may hold untold power. An invisible Loki prompts Selvig to agree.

####The Incredible Hulk (film)####

At Culver University in Virginia, General Thaddeus "Thunderbolt" Ross meets with Dr. Bruce Banner, the colleague and boyfriend of his daughter Betty, regarding an experiment that Ross claims is meant to make humans immune to gamma radiation. The experiment—part of a World War II-era "super soldier" program that Ross hopes to re-create—fails. The exposure to gamma radiation causes Banner to transform into the Hulk for brief periods of time, whenever his heart rate rises above 200 beats per minute. The Hulk destroys the lab and surrounding area, killing several people inside and injuring the General and Betty, and others outside. Banner becomes a fugitive from the U.S. military and Ross, who wants to weaponize the Hulk.

Five years later,efn|According to Leterrier, the film takes place about five years since Banner first transformed.<ref name="Timeline" /> The events of the film also take place simultaneously with the events of "Iron Man 2" (2010) and "Thor" (2011),<ref name="Phase1Timeline" /> the former of which is set six months after the events of "Iron Man" (2008).<ref name="IM2Timeline" /> Banner works at a bottling factory in Rocinha, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, while searching for a cure for his condition. On the internet, he anonymously collaborates with a colleague known only as "Mr. Blue." He is learning Yoga techniques to help keep control and has not transformed in five months. After Banner cuts his finger, a drop of his blood falls into a bottle, which is eventually ingested by an elderly consumer in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, giving him gamma sickness. Using the bottle to track down Banner, Ross sends a special forces team, led by Emil Blonsky, to capture him. Banner transforms into the Hulk and defeats Blonsky's team, with Blonsky surviving. After Ross explains how Banner became the Hulk, Blonsky agrees to be injected with a small amount of a similar serum, which gives him enhanced speed, strength, agility, and healing powers but also begins to deform his skeleton and impairs his judgment.

Banner returns to Culver University and reunites with Betty. Banner is attacked a second time by Ross and Blonsky's forces, tipped off by Betty's suspicious boyfriend, Leonard Samson, causing Banner to again transform into the Hulk. The ensuing battle outside the university proves futile for Ross's forces, and they retreat, though Blonsky, whose sanity is faltering, attacks and mocks the Hulk. The Hulk severely injures Blonsky and flees with Betty. After the Hulk reverts to Banner, he and Betty go on the run, and Banner contacts Mr. Blue, who urges them to meet him in New York City. Mr. Blue is actually cellular biologist Dr. Samuel Sterns, who tells Banner he has developed a possible antidote to Banner's condition. After a successful test, he warns Banner that the antidote may only reverse each transformation. Sterns reveals he has synthesized Banner's blood samples, which Banner sent from Brazil, into a large supply, to apply its "limitless potential" to medicine. Fearful of the Hulk's power falling into the military's hands, Banner wishes to destroy the blood supply.

A recovered Blonsky joins Ross's forces for a third attempt to take Banner into custody. They succeed, and Banner and Betty are taken away in a helicopter. Blonsky stays behind and orders Sterns to inject him with Banner's blood, as he covets the Hulk's power. The experiment mutates Blonsky into the Abomination, a creature with size and strength surpassing that of the Hulk. He attacks Sterns, who gets some of Banner's blood in a cut on his forehead, causing him to begin mutating as well. The Abomination rampages through Harlem. Realizing that the Hulk is the only one who can stop the Abomination, Banner convinces Ross to release him. He jumps from Ross's helicopter and transforms after hitting the ground. After a battle throughout Harlem, the Hulk defeats the Abomination by nearly strangling him to death with a chain, but spares his life upon hearing Betty's plea and leaves the Abomination for Ross and his forces to arrest. After having a peaceful moment with Betty, the Hulk flees New York.

A month later, Banner is in Bella Coola, British Columbia. Instead of suppressing his transformation, he begins to transform in a controlled manner with a slight smirk. Later, Tony Stark approaches Ross at a local bar and informs him that a team is being put together.efn|The team is identified offscreen as the Avengers.

####Bruce Banner (Marvel Cinematic Universe)####
####The Incredible Hulk (soundtrack)####
####The Incredible Hulk (2008 video game)####
####The Incredible Hulk (Nintendo DS video game)####
####Marvel's Thor: Ragnarok Prelude####
####The Incredible Hulk: The Fury Files####
####File:Abomination in The Incredible Hulk.jpg####
####File:Edward Norton and Mark Ruffalo as Bruce Banner Hulk.jpg####
####File:Hulk in film.jpg####
####File:The Incredible Hulk (film) poster.jpg####
####File:The Incredible Hulk film and TV series scene comparison.jpg####
####File:The Incredible Hulk Nintendo DS cover art.png####
####File:The Incredible Hulk Nintendo DS gameplay screenshot.png####
####File:The Incredible Hulk soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:The Incredible Hulk video game cover art.png####
####File:The Incredible Hulk Windows gameplay screenshot.png####
####Ant-Man (film)####

In 1989, scientist Hank Pym resigns from S.H.I.E.L.D. after discovering their attempt to replicate his Ant-Man shrinking technology. Believing the technology would be dangerous if replicated, Pym vows to hide it for as long as he lives. In the present day,efn|The events of the film are set a few months after the events of "Avengers: Age of Ultron" (2015).<ref name="/Film65Things1" /> Pym's estranged daughter, Hope van Dyne, and former protégé, Darren Cross, have forced him out of his company, Pym Technologies. Cross is close to perfecting a shrinking suit of his own, the Yellowjacket, which horrifies Pym.

Upon his release from prison, well-meaning thief Scott Lang moves in with his old cellmate, Luis. Lang visits his daughter Cassie unannounced and is chastised by his former wife Maggie and her police-detective fiancé, Paxton, for not providing child support. Unable to hold down a job because of his criminal record, Lang agrees to join Luis' crew and commit a burglary. Lang breaks into a house and cracks its safe, but only finds what he believes to be an old motorcycle suit, which he takes home. After trying the suit on, Lang accidentally shrinks himself to the size of an insect. Terrified by the experience, he returns the suit to the house, but is arrested on the way out. Pym, the homeowner, visits Lang in jail and smuggles the suit into his cell to help him break out.

Pym, who manipulated Lang through an unknowing Luis into stealing the suit as a test, wants Lang to become the new Ant-Man to steal the Yellowjacket from Cross. Having been spying on Cross after discovering his intentions, Hope and Pym train Lang to fight and to control ants. While Hope harbors resentment towards Pym about her mother Janet's death, he reveals that Janet, known as the Wasp, disappeared into a subatomic Quantum Realm while disabling a Soviet nuclear missile in 1987. Pym warns Lang that he could suffer a similar fate if he overrides his suit's regulator. They send him to steal a device that will aid their heist from the Avengers' headquarters, where he briefly fights Sam Wilson.

Cross perfects the Yellowjacket and hosts an unveiling ceremony at Pym Technologies' headquarters. Lang, along with his crew and a swarm of flying ants, infiltrates the building during the event, sabotages the company's servers, and plants explosives. When he attempts to steal the Yellowjacket, he, along with Pym and Hope, are captured by Cross, who intends to sell both the Yellowjacket and Ant-Man suits to Hydra. Lang breaks free and he and Hope dispatch most of the Hydra agents, though one flees with a vial of Cross' particles and Pym is shot. Lang pursues Cross, while the explosives detonate, imploding the building as Pym and Hope escape.

Cross dons the Yellowjacket and attacks Lang before Lang is arrested by Paxton. Cross takes Cassie hostage to lure Lang into another fight. Lang overrides the regulator and shrinks to subatomic size to penetrate Cross' suit and sabotage it to shrink uncontrollably, seemingly killing Cross. Lang disappears into the Quantum Realm but manages to reverse the effects and returns to the macroscopic world. Out of gratitude for Lang's heroism, Paxton covers for Lang to keep him out of prison. Seeing that Lang survived and returned from the Quantum Realm, Pym wonders if his wife is alive as well. Later, Lang meets up with Luis, who tells him that Wilson is looking for him.

In a mid-credits scene, Pym shows Hope a new Wasp prototype suit and offers it to her. In a post-credits scene, Steve Rogers and Wilson have Bucky Barnes in their custody. Unable to contact Tony Stark because of "the accords",efn|As depicted in "Captain America: Civil War" (2016) Wilson mentions that he knows someone who can help.

####Avengers: Age of Ultron####

In the Eastern European country of Sokovia, the Avengers—Tony Stark, Thor, Bruce Banner, Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, and Clint Barton—raid a Hydra facility commanded by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker, who has experimented on humans using the scepter previously wielded by Loki. They meet two of Strucker's test subjects—twins Pietro (who has superhuman speed) and Wanda Maximoff (who has telepathic and telekinetic abilities)—and apprehend Strucker, while Stark retrieves Loki's scepter.

Stark and Banner discover an artificial intelligence within the scepter's gem, and secretly decide to use it to complete Stark's "Ultron" global defense program. The unexpectedly sentient Ultron, believing he must eradicate humanity to save Earth, eliminates Stark's A.I. J.A.R.V.I.S. and attacks the Avengers at their headquarters. Escaping with the scepter, Ultron uses the resources in Strucker's Sokovia base to upgrade his rudimentary body and build an army of robot drones. Having killed Strucker, he recruits the Maximoffs, who hold Stark responsible for their parents' deaths by his company's weapons, and goes to the base of arms dealer Ulysses Klaue in Johannesburg to get vibranium. The Avengers attack Ultron and the Maximoffs, but Wanda subdues them with haunting visions, causing Banner to turn into the Hulk and rampage until Stark stops him with his anti-Hulk armor.<!-- Please note the term "Hulkbuster" is not used in the film -->efn|While the name of the anti-Hulk armor, usually referred to as the "Hulkbuster" in comic books, is not spoken in the film, its deployment system and containment cell are code-named "Veronica".<ref name=HulkbusterOfficial /><ref name="Veronica" /> Director Joss Whedon said the name alludes to the character Veronica Lodge from Archie Comics: "I just decided to call it Veronica because [Bruce Banner] used to be in love with a girl named Betty and Veronica is the opposite of that," making the connection to Archie's love interest, Betty Cooper.<ref name="Veronica" />

A worldwide backlash over the resulting destruction, and the fears Wanda's hallucinations incited, send the team into hiding at Barton's farmhouse. Thor departs to consult with Dr. Erik Selvig on the apocalyptic future he saw in his hallucination, while Nick Fury arrives and encourages the team to form a plan to stop Ultron. In Seoul, Ultron uses Loki's scepter to enslave the team's friend Helen Cho. They use her synthetic-tissue technology, vibranium, and the scepter's gem to craft a new body. As Ultron uploads himself into the body, Wanda is able to read his mind; discovering his plan for human extinction, the Maximoffs turn against Ultron. Rogers, Romanoff, and Barton fight Ultron and retrieve the synthetic body, but Ultron captures Romanoff. The Avengers fight among themselves when Stark and Banner secretly upload J.A.R.V.I.S.—who is still working after hiding from Ultron inside the Internet—into the synthetic body.

Thor returns to help activate the body, based on his vision that the gem on its brow is the Mind Stone, one of the six Infinity Stones, the most powerful objects in existence. This "Vision" earns their trust by being worthy of lifting Thor's hammer, Mjölnir. Vision and the Maximoffs go with the Avengers to Sokovia, where Ultron has used the remaining vibranium to build a machine to lift a large part of the capital city skyward, intending to crash it into the ground to cause global extinction. Banner rescues Romanoff, who awakens the Hulk for the battle. The Avengers fight Ultron's army while Fury arrives in a Helicarrier with Maria Hill, James Rhodes, and S.H.I.E.L.D. agents to evacuate civilians.

Pietro dies when he shields Barton from gunfire, and a vengeful Wanda abandons her post to destroy Ultron's primary body, which allows one of his drones to activate the machine. The city plummets, but Stark and Thor overload the machine and shatter the landmass. In the aftermath, the Hulk, unwilling to endanger Romanoff by being with her, departs in a Quinjet, while Vision confronts and destroys Ultron's last remaining body. Later, with the Avengers having established a new base run by Fury, Hill, Cho, and Selvig, Thor returns to Asgard to learn more about the forces he suspects have manipulated recent events. As Stark leaves and Barton retires, Rogers and Romanoff prepare to train new Avengers: Rhodes, Vision, Sam Wilson, and Wanda.

In a mid-credits scene, Thanos dons a gauntlet<!-- Note: the gauntlet is not named in the film -->efn|The Infinity Gauntlet seen at the end of the film is not the same as the one seen in Odin's vault in Asgard in "Thor" (2011).<ref name="Gauntlet" /> The Asgard Gauntlet is revealed to be a fake in "Thor: Ragnarok" (2017).<ref name="FakeGauntlet" /> and vows to retrieve the Infinity Stones himself.

####Captain America: The Winter Soldier####

Two years after the Battle of New York,efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012)<ref name="CapTWSSynopsis1" /> Steve Rogers works in Washington, D.C., for the espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D., while adjusting to contemporary society. During a mission alongside Agent Natasha Romanoff and S.H.I.E.L.D.'s counter-terrorism S.T.R.I.K.E. team led by Agent Brock Rumlow to free hostages aboard a S.H.I.E.L.D. vessel from pirates led by Georges Batroc, Rogers discovers Romanoff has another agenda: to extract data from the ship's computers.

Returning to the Triskelion, S.H.I.E.L.D.'s headquarters, Rogers confronts Director Nick Fury and is briefed about Project Insight: three Helicarriers linked to spy satellites, designed to preemptively eliminate threats. Unable to decrypt Romanoff's data, Fury becomes suspicious about Insight and asks senior S.H.I.E.L.D. official and Secretary of Internal Security Alexander Pierce to delay the project. On his way to rendezvous with Maria Hill, Fury is ambushed by assailants led by an assassin called the Winter Soldier. Escaping to Rogers' apartment, Fury warns him that S.H.I.E.L.D. is compromised, but is wounded by the Winter Soldier, before handing Rogers a flash drive containing the ship's data. Fury is pronounced dead during surgery, and Hill recovers the body. The next day, Pierce summons Rogers to the Triskelion.

When Rogers withholds Fury's information, Pierce brands him a fugitive. Hunted by S.T.R.I.K.E., Rogers meets with Romanoff. Using the data, they discover a secret S.H.I.E.L.D. bunker in New Jersey, where they activate a supercomputer containing the preserved consciousness of Arnim Zola. Zola informs them that after being captured by Rogers during World War II,efn|As depicted in "Captain America: The First Avenger" (2011) he was recruited to S.H.I.E.L.D., where he secretly reformed Hydra within its ranks, sowing global chaos to make humanity surrender its freedom in exchange for security, using the Winter Soldier as their primary assassin. The pair narrowly escape death when a S.H.I.E.L.D. missile destroys the bunker, and realize that Pierce is Hydra's leader within S.H.I.E.L.D. Rogers and Romanoff enlist the help of VA employee and former USAF pararescueman Sam Wilson, whom Rogers befriended, and acquire a powered "Falcon" wingpack used by Wilson while he was in the Air Force.

They capture S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Jasper Sitwell, a Hydra mole, forcing him to divulge that Zola developed a data-mining algorithm that can identify individuals becoming threats to Hydra. The Insight Helicarriers will sweep the globe, using satellite-guided guns to eliminate them. Sitwell is killed in an ambush by the Winter Soldier, whom Rogers recognizes as Bucky Barnes, his longtime best friend previously thought dead; he had survived due to Zola's experimentation and has been repeatedly brainwashed and cryogenically frozen to perform Hydra's missions. Hill manages to extract the trio to a safehouse where Fury, who had faked his death, plans to sabotage the Helicarriers by replacing their controller chips.

After the World Security Council members arrive for the Helicarriers' launch, Rogers broadcasts Hydra's plot to everyone at the Triskelion. Romanoff, disguised as one of the Council members, disarms Pierce. Fury arrives and forces Pierce to unlock S.H.I.E.L.D.'s database so that Romanoff can leak classified information, exposing Hydra to the public. Following a struggle, Fury fatally shoots Pierce. Rogers and Wilson storm two Helicarriers and replace the controller chips, but Barnes destroys Wilson's suit and fights Rogers on the third. Rogers fends him off and replaces the final chip, allowing Hill to take control and have the vessels destroy each other.

Rogers refuses to fight Barnes in an attempt to reach his friend, but as the ship collides with the Triskelion, Rogers falls into the Potomac River. Barnes rescues the unconscious Rogers before disappearing into the woods. With S.H.I.E.L.D. in disarray, Romanoff appears before a Senate subcommittee to defend her and Rogers' actions, while Fury, under the cover of his apparent death, heads to Eastern Europe in pursuit of Hydra's remaining cells. Rogers and Wilson decide to find Barnes, while Rumlow, who was a Hydra agent, is hospitalized following the Triskelion's destruction.

In a mid-credits scene, Baron Wolfgang von Strucker, at a Hydra lab, proclaims that the "age of miracles" has begun as scientists examine an energy-filled scepterefn|Identified off-screen as the scepter used by Loki in "The Avengers".<ref name="CraveLoki" /><!-- NOTE! Please see that this footnote DOES INDICATE THIS IS LOKI'S SCEPTER, as it is not identified in the film --> and two test subjects: one with superhuman speed, the other with telekinetic powers.efn|Identified off-screen as Pietro and Wanda Maximoff.<ref name="OlsenTaylorJohnson" /> In a post-credits scene, Barnes visits his own memorial at the Smithsonian Institution.

####Guardians of the Galaxy (film)####


In 1988, following his mother's death, a young Peter Quill is abducted from Earth by a group of alien thieves and smugglers called the Ravagers led by Yondu Udonta. In 2014, on the abandoned planet Morag, Quill steals a mysterious Orb, but is attacked by forces of the fanatical Kree renegade Ronan the Accuser led by Korath. Although Quill escapes with the Orb, Yondu discovers his theft and issues a bounty for his capture, while Ronan sends the assassin Gamora after the Orb.

When Quill attempts to sell the Orb on Xandar, capital of the Nova Empire, Gamora ambushes him and steals it. A fight ensues, drawing in a pair of bounty hunters: the genetically and cybernetically modified raccoon Rocket, and the tree-like humanoid Groot. Nova Corps officers capture the four, detaining them in the Kyln prison. An inmate there, Drax the Destroyer, attempts to kill Gamora due to her association with Ronan, who killed his wife and daughter. Quill convinces Drax that Gamora can bring Ronan to him, though Gamora reveals that she has betrayed Ronan, unwilling to let him use the Orb's power. Learning that Gamora intends to sell the Orb to the Collector Taneleer Tivan, Quill, Rocket, Groot, and Drax work with her to escape the Kyln in Quill's ship, the "Milano".

Ronan meets with Gamora's adoptive father, Thanos, to discuss her betrayal. Quill's group flees to Knowhere, a remote lawless outpost in space built in the giant severed head of a Celestial. A drunken Drax summons Ronan while the rest of the group meets Tivan. Tivan opens the Orb, revealing the Power Stone, an item of immeasurable power that destroys all but the most powerful beings who wield it. Tivan's slave Carina grabs the Stone, triggering an explosion that engulfs Tivan's collection. Ronan arrives and easily defeats Drax, while the others flee by ship, pursued by Ronan's followers and Gamora's adoptive sister Nebula. Nebula destroys Gamora's ship, leaving her floating in space, and Ronan's fighters capture the Orb.

Quill contacts Yondu before following Gamora into space, giving her his helmet to survive; Yondu arrives and retrieves the pair. Rocket, Drax, and Groot threaten to attack Yondu's ship to rescue them, but Quill negotiates a truce, promising the Orb to Yondu. Quill's group agrees that facing Ronan means certain death, but that they cannot let him use the Infinity Stone to destroy the galaxy. On Ronan's flagship, the "Dark Aster", Ronan embeds the Stone in his warhammer, taking its power for himself. He contacts Thanos, threatening to kill him after first destroying Xandar. Hateful of her adoptive father, Nebula allies with Ronan.

The Ravagers and Quill's group join with the Nova Corps to confront the "Dark Aster" at Xandar, with Quill's group breaching the warship with the "Milano". Ronan uses his empowered warhammer to destroy the Nova Corps fleet. Drax kills Korath and Gamora defeats Nebula, who escapes, but the group finds themselves outmatched by Ronan's power until Rocket crashes a Ravager ship through the "Dark Aster". The damaged "Dark Aster" crash-lands on Xandar, with Groot sacrificing himself to shield the group. Ronan emerges from the wreck and prepares to destroy Xandar, but Quill distracts him, allowing Drax and Rocket to destroy Ronan's warhammer. Quill grabs the freed Stone, and with Gamora, Drax, and Rocket sharing its burden, uses it to vaporize Ronan.

In the aftermath, Quill tricks Yondu into taking a container supposedly containing the Stone, and gives the real one to the Nova Corps. As the Ravagers leave Xandar, Yondu remarks that it turned out well that they did not deliver Quill to his father per their contract. Quill's group, now known as the Guardians of the Galaxy, has their criminal records expunged, and Quill learns that he is only half-human, his father being part of an ancient, unknown species. Quill finally opens the last present he received from his mother, a cassette tape filled with her favorite songs. The Guardians leave in the rebuilt "Milano" along with a potted sapling cut from Groot, which grows into a baby version of him.

In a post-credits scene, Tivan sits in his destroyed archive with two of his living exhibits: a canine cosmonaut and an anthropomorphic duck.efn|Identified outside the film's narrative as Cosmo the Spacedog and Howard the Duck.<ref name="StitchKingdom2" /><ref name="Green" />

####Iron Man 3####

At a New Year's Eve party in 1999, Tony Stark meets scientist Maya Hansen, the inventor of Extremis, an experimental regenerative treatment that allows recovery from crippling injuries. Disabled scientist Aldrich Killian offers them a place in his company Advanced Idea Mechanics, but Stark rejects him. Thirteen years later, Stark is suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and has frequent panic attacks due to his experiences during the alien invasion of New York.efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012)<ref name="CapTWSSynopsis1" /> He has built dozens of new Iron Man suits to cope with his insomnia, creating friction with his girlfriend Pepper Potts.

Meanwhile, a string of bombings is claimed by a terrorist known as the Mandarin. Stark's security chief Happy Hogan is badly injured in one such attack and is put into a coma, prompting Stark to issue a televised threat to the Mandarin, revealing his home address in the process. The Mandarin sends gunship helicopters to destroy Stark's home. Hansen, who came to warn Stark, survives the attack with Potts. Stark escapes in an experimental new Iron Man suit, which his artificial intelligence J.A.R.V.I.S. pilots to rural Tennessee, following a flight plan from Stark's investigation into the Mandarin. Stark's new armor is not fully functional and lacks sufficient power to return to Malibu, leaving the world to believe that he died.

With the help of Harley Keener, a local boy, Stark investigates the remains of a local explosion bearing the hallmarks of a Mandarin attack, although it occurred years before any known attack by the terrorist. He discovers the "bombings" were triggered by soldiers subjected to Extremis whose bodies explosively rejected the treatment. These explosions were falsely attributed to a terrorist plot to cover up Extremis' flaws. Stark witnesses Extremis firsthand when Mandarin agents Savin and Brandt attack him: Stark kills Brandt and incapacitates Savin. Meanwhile, Killian resurfaces and kidnaps Potts with assistance from Hansen. American intelligence agencies continue to search for the Mandarin, with James Rhodes—the former War Machine, now re-branded as the Iron Patriot—lured into a trap to steal his armor.

Tracing the Mandarin to Miami, Stark infiltrates his headquarters using improvised weapons. Inside, he discovers the Mandarin is an English actor named Trevor Slattery, who is oblivious to the actions carried out in his image. Killian then captures Stark. He reveals he has subjected Potts to Extremis in the hope Stark will help fix Extremis' flaws while trying to save her. When Hansen betrays Killian by threatening to jeopardize his operations, Killian fatally shoots her.

Stark escapes and reunites with Rhodes, discovering that Killian intends to attack President Ellis aboard Air Force One, using the Iron Patriot armor, controlled by Savin. Stark kills Savin, saving the passengers and crew, but cannot stop Killian from abducting Ellis. At an impounded damaged oil tanker, Killian intends to kill Ellis on live television. The Vice President would then become a puppet leader, following Killian's orders, in exchange for Extremis to cure his young daughter's<!--credited as "Vice President's daughter"--> disability. Stark and Rhodes infiltrate the platform, aided by the remaining Iron Man suits, controlled remotely by J.A.R.V.I.S.. Rhodes secures the President and takes him to safety, while Stark discovers Potts has survived the Extremis procedure. Before he can save her, a rig collapses around them, and she falls to the platform below, causing Stark to believe her dead. Stark fights Killian but finds himself cornered. Killian, who appropriated Hansen's Extremis research as a cure for his own disability and expanded the program to include injured war veterans, reveals he is the real Mandarin behind Slattery's cover. Potts, whose Extremis powers allowed her to survive the fall, kills Killian to save Stark.

As a gesture of his devotion to Potts, Stark orders J.A.R.V.I.S. to destroy all the Iron Man suits. The Vice President and Slattery are arrested, and Happy awakens from his coma. With Stark's help, Potts's Extremis effects are stabilized; and Stark promises to scale back his life as Iron Man, undergoing surgery to remove the shrapnel near his heart and throwing his obsolete chest arc reactor into the sea. He muses that, even without the technology, he will always be Iron Man.<!--

Per MOS:FILMPLOT, please do not include the post-credit scene here. See the MOS and the talk page for more. -->

####Thor: The Dark World####

Eons ago, Bor, father of Odin, clashes with the Dark Elf Malekith, who seeks to unleash a weapon known as the Aether on the nine realms. After conquering Malekith's forces, including enhanced warriors called the Kursed, on their home world of Svartalfheim, Bor safeguards the Aether within a stone column. Unknown to Bor, Malekith, his lieutenant, Algrim and a handful of Dark Elves escape into suspended animation.

In present-day Asgard, Loki stands imprisoned for his war crimes on Earth.efn|As depicted in "The Avengers" (2012). The events of "Thor: The Dark World" are set a year after the events of "The Avengers"<ref name="Timeline" /> Meanwhile, Thor, alongside warriors Fandral, Volstagg, and Sif, repels marauders on Vanaheim, home of their comrade Hogun; it is the final battle in a war to pacify the Nine Realms following the reconstruction of the Bifröst, the "Rainbow Bridge" between realms, which had been destroyed two years earlier.efn|As depicted in "Thor" (2011) The Asgardians soon learn that the Convergence, a rare alignment of the Nine Realms, is imminent; as the event approaches, portals linking the worlds appear at random.

In London, astrophysicist Dr. Jane Foster and her intern Darcy Lewis travel to an abandoned factory where such portals have appeared, disrupting the laws of physics around them. Separating from the group, Foster is teleported to another world, where, beyond Heimdall's near all-seeing vision, she absorbs the Aether. Heimdall alerts Thor, leading him to Earth. When Thor finds Foster, she inadvertently releases an unearthly force, and Thor returns with her to Asgard. Odin, recognizing the Aether, warns that the Aether will not only kill Foster but that its return heralds a catastrophic prophecy.

Malekith, awakened by the Aether's release, attacks Asgard. During the battle, Malekith and Algrim search for Foster, sensing that she contains the Aether. Thor's mother Frigga is fatally stabbed protecting Foster, and Malekith and Algrim are forced to flee without Foster. Despite Odin's orders not to leave Asgard, Thor reluctantly enlists the help of Loki, who knows of a secret portal to Svartalfheim, where they will use Foster to lure and confront Malekith, away from Asgard. In return, Thor promises Loki vengeance on Malekith for killing their mother. With Volstagg and Sif stalling Asgardian soldiers and Fandral assisting their escape, Thor, Loki, and Foster head to Svartalfheim.

There, Loki tricks Malekith into drawing the Aether out of Foster, but Thor's attempt to destroy the exposed substance fails. Malekith merges with the Aether and leaves in his ship as Loki is impaled while killing Algrim. Thor, cradling Loki in his arms, promises to tell their father of his sacrifice. Afterward, Thor and Foster discover another portal in a nearby cave and reunite in London with Lewis and Foster's mentor Dr. Erik Selvig—who was briefly institutionalized due to the mental trauma he suffered during Loki's attack on Earth. They learn that Malekith plans to restore the Dark Elves to dominance by unleashing the Aether at the center of the Convergence in Greenwich. Thor battles Malekith through various portals and across multiple worlds until one portal separates them, leaving Malekith unopposed on Earth. Thor returns in time to help his mortal comrades use their scientific equipment to transport Malekith to Svartalfheim, where he is crushed by his own damaged ship.

Thor returns to Asgard, where he declines Odin's offer to take the throne and tells him of Loki's sacrifice. As he leaves, Odin transforms into Loki, who is alive and impersonating Odin.

In a mid-credits scene, Volstagg and Sif visit the Collector and entrust the Aether to his care, commenting that with the Tesseract already in Asgard, having two Infinity Stones so close together would be unwise. As they leave, the Collector states his desire to acquire the other five Stones. In a post-credits scene, Foster and Thor reunite on Earth, while somewhere in London, a frost monster from Jotunheim—accidentally transported to Earth during the final battle—continues to run amok.

####Ant-Man and the Wasp####
####Avengers: Endgame####
####Avengers: Infinity War####
####Black Panther (film)####
####Captain America: Civil War####
####Captain Marvel (film)####
####Doctor Strange (2016 film)####

In Kathmandu, the sorcerer Kaecilius and his zealots enter the secret compound Kamar-Taj and behead its librarian. They steal several pages from a book belonging to the Ancient One, a long-lived sorcerer who has taught every student at Kamar-Taj, including Kaecilius, in the mystic arts. The Ancient One pursues the traitors, but Kaecilius and his followers escape.

In New York City, Dr. Stephen Strange, a wealthy and acclaimed, yet arrogant neurosurgeon, severely injures his hands in a car crash while en route to a speaking conference, leaving him permanently unable to operate. Fellow surgeon Christine Palmer tries to help him move on, but Strange vainly pursues experimental surgeries to heal his hands. Strange learns about Jonathan Pangborn, a paraplegic who mysteriously regained use of his legs. Pangborn directs Strange to Kamar-Taj, where he is taken in by Mordo, a sorcerer under the Ancient One. The Ancient One demonstrates her power to Strange, revealing the astral plane and other dimensions such as the Mirror Dimension. She reluctantly agrees to train Strange, whose arrogance and ambition remind her of Kaecilius.

Strange studies under the Ancient One and Mordo, and from ancient texts in the library that are now guarded by Master Wong. Strange learns that Earth is protected from threats from other dimensions by a shield generated from three Sanctums in New York City, London, and Hong Kong, which are all directly accessible from Kamar-Taj. The sorcerers' task is to protect the Sanctums, though Pangborn instead chose to channel mystical energy only to heal his paralysis. Strange progresses quickly, and secretly reads the book from which Kaecilius stole pages, learning to bend time with the Eye of Agamotto. Mordo and Wong warn Strange against breaking the laws of nature, drawing a comparison to Kaecilius' desire for eternal life.

Kaecilius uses the stolen pages to contact Dormammu of the Dark Dimension, where time is non-existent and destroys the London Sanctum to weaken Earth's protection. The zealots then attack the New York Sanctum, killing its guardian, but Strange holds them off with the help of the Cloak of Levitation, only to be critically injured during a skirmish. He teleports himself back to the hospital where Palmer saves him. Upon returning to the Sanctum, Strange reveals to Mordo that the Ancient One has been drawing power from the Dark Dimension to sustain long life, and Mordo becomes disillusioned with her. After a fight in the Mirror Dimension of New York, Kaecilius mortally wounds the Ancient One and escapes to Hong Kong. Before dying, she tells Strange that he and Mordo will have to work together to defeat Kaecilius, balancing Mordo's steadfast nature against Strange's willingness to bend the rules. Strange and Mordo arrive in Hong Kong to find Wong dead, the Sanctum destroyed, and the Dark Dimension engulfing Earth. Strange uses the Eye to reverse time and save Wong, then enters the Dark Dimension and creates an endless time loop around himself and Dormammu. After repeatedly killing Strange to no avail, Dormammu finally accepts his bargain, leaving Earth permanently and taking Kaecilius and the zealots with him in exchange for Strange breaking the loop.

Disgusted by Strange and the Ancient One defying nature's laws, Mordo renounces his sorcerer career and departs. Strange returns the Eye, which is revealed to hold an Infinity Stone, back to Kamar-Taj and takes up residence in the New York Sanctum to continue his studies with Wong. In a mid-credits scene, Strange decides to help Thor, who has brought his brother Loki to Earth to search for their father, Odin.efn|As depicted in "Thor: Ragnarok" (2017) In a post-credits scene, Mordo confronts Pangborn and steals the mystical energy he uses, telling him that Earth has "too many sorcerers".

####Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2####
####Spider-Man: Far From Home####
####Spider-Man: Homecoming####
####Thor: Ragnarok####
####Black Panther: Wakanda Forever####
####Black Widow (2021 film)####
####Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness####
####Eternals (film)####
####Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings####
####Spider-Man: No Way Home####
####Thor: Love and Thunder####
####Black Widow (2021 film)####
####Black Widow (soundtrack)####
####The Making of Black Widow####
####Marvel's Black Widow Prelude####
####Natasha Romanoff (Marvel Cinematic Universe)####
####File:Black Widow (2021 film) poster.jpg####
####File:Black Widow soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Free fall VFX sequence in Black Widow (2021 film).jpg####
####Eternals (film)####
####Eternals (soundtrack)####
####Eternals: The 500 Year War####
####File:Eternals (film) poster.jpeg####
####File:Eternals soundtrack cover.jpg####
####Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings####
####Every Summertime####
####In the Dark (Swae Lee song)####
####Lazy Susan (song)####
####The Making of Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings####
####Run It (DJ Snake song)####
####Shang-Chi (Marvel Cinematic Universe)####
####Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings (Original Score)####
####Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings (soundtrack)####
####Ten Rings (organization)####
####Wenwu####
####File:Bus VFX sequence in Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings.jpg####
####File:Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings poster.jpeg####
####File:Simu Liu as Shang-Chi.jpg####
####File:Tony Leung as Wenwu.jpeg####
####Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania####
####Blade (2024 film)####
####Captain America: New World Order####
####Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3####
####The Marvels####
####Thunderbolts (film)####
####Avengers: Secret Wars####
####Avengers: The Kang Dynasty####
####Deadpool 3####
####Fantastic Four (2025 film)####
####File:Ant-Man (film) poster.jpg####
####File:Ant-Man and the Wasp poster.jpg####
####File:Ant-Man and the Wasp Quantumania poster.jpg####
####File:Ant-Man and the Wasp soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Ant-Man soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Evangeline Lilly as Wasp.jpeg####
####File:Hayley Lovitt as the Wasp.png####
####File:Michelle Pfeiffer as Janet van Dyne in Ant-Man and the Wasp poster.jpg####
####File:Michelle Pfeiffer de-aging VFX in Ant-Man and the Wasp.jpg####
####File:Paul Rudd as Ant-Man.jpg####
####File:Quantumania the wasp suit.png####
####File:Yellowjacket in Ant-Man (film).jpg####
####File:Yellowjacket VFX in Ant-Man (film).jpg####
####File:Andy Serkis as Ulysses Klaue.jpg####
####File:Avengers 3 and 4 logos.jpg####
####File:The Avengers (2012 film) poster.jpg####
####File:Avengers Age of Ultron poster.jpg####
####File:Avengers Age of Ultron soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Avengers Assemble - Music From And Inspired By The Motion Picture cover.jpg####
####File:Avengers Endgame final battle.jpeg####
####File:Avengers Endgame poster.jpg####
####File:Avengers Endgame soundtrack cover.png####
####File:Avengers Infinity War poster.jpg####
####File:Avengers Infinity War soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Avengers team in The Avengers (2012 film).jpg####
####File:Avengers Tower in Avengers Age of Ultron.jpg####
####File:Avengers training facility VFX in Avengers Age of Ultron.jpg####
####File:The Avengers soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Chris Evans as Steve Rogers Captain America.jpg####
####File:Chris Hemsworth as 'Fat Thor'.jpeg####
####File:Cobie Smulders as Maria Hill.jpg####
####File:Edward Norton and Mark Ruffalo as Bruce Banner Hulk.jpg####
####File:Helicarrier in The Avengers (2012 film).jpg####
####File:Hulk in film.jpg####
####File:Hulkbuster armor in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.webp####
####File:Infinity War - Doctor Strange After Thanos Snaps.jpeg####
####File:Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye.jpg####
####File:Josh Brolin as Thanos.jpeg####
####File:Live To Rise single cover.jpg####
####File:Mark Ruffalo as "Professor Hulk".jpeg####
####File:Masquerade VFX test footage of Josh Brolin as Thanos for Avengers Infinity War.jpg####
####File:Paul Bettany as Vision.jpg####
####File:Robert Downey Jr. as Tony Stark in Avengers Infinity War.jpg####
####File:Rocket in Avengers Endgame.jpeg####
####File:Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow.jpg####
####File:Thanos adds the last Infinity Stone.gif####
####File:Thanos' MCU Physical Appearances (cropped).jpg####
####File:Thanos's snap from Avengers Infinity War.gif####
####File:The Avengers Hulk motion capture.jpg####
####File:The Infinity Stones.jpg####
####File:Zoe Saldana as Gamora.jpeg####
####File:All the Stars single cover.jpg####
####File:Black Panther - The Album cover.png####
####File:Black Panther (film) poster.jpg####
####File:Black Panther score cover.jpg####
####File:Black Panther Wakanda Forever poster.jpg####
####File:Black Panther Wakanda Forever Prologue.jpg####
####File:Black Panther Wakanda Forever soundtrack.jpg####
####File:Black Panther Wakanda Remixed cover.jpg####
####File:Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa.jpg####
####File:Dora Milaje in film.jpg####
####File:Letitia Wright as Shuri in Black Panther poster.jpeg####
####File:Lupita Nyong'o as Nakia in Black Panther poster.jpg####
####File:Martin Freeman as Everett K. Ross in Black Panther poster.jpeg####
####File:Pray for Me by The Weeknd and Kendrick Lamar single cover.jpg####
####File:Wakanda Forever score.jpg####
####File:Wakanda in Black Panther (film).jpg####
####File:Wakanda VFX in Black Panther (film).jpg####
####File:Agent Carter (film) poster.jpg####
####File:Captain America Civil War poster.jpg####
####File:Captain America Civil War soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Captain America New World Order logo.jpg####
####File:Captain America The First Avenger poster.jpg####
####File:Captain America The First Avenger soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Captain America The Winter Soldier poster.jpg####
####File:Captain America The Winter Soldier soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Chris Evans body reduction VFX in Captain America The First Avenger.jpg####
####File:Dominic Cooper as Howard Stark.jpg####
####File:Emily VanCamp as Sharon Carter in Captain America The Winter Soldier poster.jpg####
####File:Hayley Atwell aging VFX in Captain America The Winter Soldier.jpg####
####File:Hayley Atwell as Peggy Carter.jpg####
####File:Howling Commandos in Captain America The First Avenger.jpg####
####File:Hugo Weaving as Red Skull.jpg####
####File:Leipzig-Halle Airport VFX in Captain America Civil War.jpg####
####File:Neal McDonough as Dum Dum Dugan.jpg####
####File:Paul Rudd as Scott Lang Giant-Man.jpg####
####File:Sebastian Stan as Bucky Barnes.jpg####
####File:Toby Jones as Arnim Zola.jpg####
####File:Brie Larson as Carol Danvers.jpeg####
####File:Captain Marvel (film) poster.jpg####
####File:Captain Marvel soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Jude Law as Yon-Rogg.jpg####
####File:Samuel L. Jackson de-aging VFX in Captain Marvel (film).jpg####
####File:Starforce team in Captain Marvel (film).jpg####
####File:The Marvels poster.jpg####
####File:Benedict Cumberbatch as Doctor Strange.jpeg####
####File:Benedict Wong as Wong.jpg####
####File:Chiwetel Ejiofor as Karl Mordo.jpg####
####File:Doctor Strange (2016 film) poster.jpg####
####File:Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness poster.jpg####
####File:Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Doctor Strange soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Dormammu in Doctor Strange (2016 film).png####
####File:Mirror Dimension VFX in Doctor Strange (2016 film).jpg####
####File:Tilda Swinton as the Ancient One.jpg####
####File:Chris Pratt as Peter Quill.jpeg####
####File:Dave Bautista as Drax.jpg####
####File:Ego's planet in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2.jpg####
####File:Elizabeth Debicki as Ayesha.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy (film) poster.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy Awesome Mix Vol 1 cover.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy Deluxe soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:The Guardians of the Galaxy Holiday Special poster.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2 Awesome Mix Vol 2 cover.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 2 poster.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 3 poster.jpg####
####File:Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 score cover.png####
####File:Karen Gillan as Nebula.png####
####File:Kurt Russell as Ego.jpg####
####File:Pom Klementieff as Mantis 2.jpg####
####File:Sylvester Stallone as Stakar Ogord.jpg####
####File:Vin Diesel as Groot.jpeg####
####File:Vin Diesel as teenage Groot.jpeg####
####File:Xandar in Guardians of the Galaxy (film).jpg####
####File:All Hail the King poster.jpg####
####File:Ben Kingsley as Trevor Slattery.jpeg####
####File:Fin Fang Foom by Adi Granov.jpg####
####File:Gwyneth Paltrow as Pepper Potts.jpg####
####File:Iron Man (2008 film) poster.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 2 ACDC soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 2 poster.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 2 score cover.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 2 video game cover art.png####
####File:Iron Man 2 video game gameplay screenshot.png####
####File:Iron Man 3 - Heroes Fall (Music Inspired by the Motion Picture) cover.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 3 poster.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 3 soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Iron Man 3 The Official Game logo.jpg####
####File:Iron Man and War Machine suits VFX in Iron Man 2.jpg####
####File:Iron Man Hall of Armor.jpg####
####File:Iron Man Mark 42 armor VFX in Iron Man 3.jpg####
####File:Iron Man Mark III armor from Iron Man (2008 film).jpg####
####File:Iron Man soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Iron Man video game cover art.jpg####
####File:Iron Monger in Iron Man (2008 film).jpg####
####File:Robert Downey Jr. as Tony Stark in Iron Man 3.jpg####
####File:Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury.jpg####
####File:Terrence Howard and Don Cheadle as James Rhodes.jpg####
####File:War Machine armor in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.webp####
####File:Grand Central Terminal VFX in Spider-Man Homecoming.jpg####
####File:J. K. Simmons as J. Jonah Jameson in Spider-Man Far From Home.png####
####File:Spider-Man actors.jpg####
####File:Spider-Man Far From Home poster.jpg####
####File:Spider-Man Far From Home soundtrack cover.jpg####
####File:Spider-Man Far From Home suit.jpg####
####File:Spider-Man Homecoming poster.jpg####
