####5 Against the House####
Four friends enrolled at Midwestern University (which was fictional at the time of the film but became a reality in the mid-1990s) - Brick (Keith), Al (Madison), Ronnie (Kerwin Mathews) and Roy (Alvy Moore) - visit the Harold's Club casino in Reno, Nevada during a weekend trip.

After an hour spent gambling and socializing, the group prepares to leave. Ronnie, however, has lost money playing roulette and must cash a check at the cashier's window. He is accompanied there by Roy, but unbeknownst to either of them, the cashier is being threatened by a man with a gun. Using a concealed security alarm, the cashier alerts casino officials, who apprehend not only the would-be robber, but Roy and Ronnie as well. Al persuades the police to release Roy and Ronnie, but the inquisitive Ronnie has become obsessed with the idea of a spectacular casino robbery, and he begins forming his own plans to rob Harold's Club after he overhears one of the police officers say "There's no way it [robbing Harold's Club] can be done."

Back at college, the incident is seemingly forgotten, though Ronnie begins developing his plans in earnest. Al also re-establishes his relationship with his girlfriend, Kay (Kim Novak), who recently has become a singer at a local nightclub. Al takes Brick, Roy and Ronnie to see one of her shows. After the performance, Brick, a veteran of the Korean war, is provoked into fighting a fellow student over a former girlfriend, and afterward, he suffers from the effects of a dissociative psychotic episode due to an ongoing battle with post-traumatic stress disorder. Later that night, Al encourages a distraught Brick to return to a veteran's hospital for treatment, but he refuses.

Later, Ronnie finalizes his plan to rob Harold's Club. Claiming that the robbery would be an adventurous "first" in their otherwise ordinary lives, Ronnie reveals the plan to Brick and Roy, maintaining that all the money would be returned, thereby ensuring that no one involved would be guilty of a prosecutable crime. Though initially skeptical, Brick and Roy gradually abandon their misgivings. The wealthy Ronnie then uses his personal inheritance to purchase an untraceable trailer and car and fabricate a wooden cart that is identical to the cash carts used at Harold's — the most important component of the heist.

Ronnie determines that the robbery only can proceed if Al participates, maintaining that at least four people will be needed for the dangerously complex operation. But Brick, Roy and Ronnie agree that Al will not go along with the robbery if he is made aware of it. Coincidentally, the day before the robbery, Al proposes to Kay, and they decide to go to Reno with the others to get married right away.

On the 11-hour drive to Reno, Al recognizes the cart's design while riding in the trailer and inadvertently turns on a small reel-to-reel recorder hidden inside the cart and listens to a threatening recording. Ronnie reveals his robbery plans to Kay and Al. Shocked, they refuse to participate.

Brick then pulls out a revolver and seizes control. Fearing a life of destitution and confinement, the increasingly volatile and disturbed Brick explains that the robbery will go ahead as intended, but with one difference: The money will not be returned. Brick threatens to kill Al if anyone attempts to sabotage the plan.

Once they arrive at the casino, the robbery is carried out efficiently as Reno's casino district is filled with costumed partiers celebrating a cowboy-themed fête. In the chaotic festivities, the disguised Brick, Ronnie and Al blend into the crowd and convince a cart operator (William Conrad) to retrieve cash from the money room, using the pre-recorded message to make him believe that there is a desperate man with a gun in the cart who will shoot him if he does not cooperate.

After the robbery, Brick leaves the others behind and escapes with the money, but Al pursues him into a casino parking structure. Kay, having alerted police, follows them, and a tense standoff ensues. Ultimately, Al convinces Brick to give up peacefully. No one else is arrested, and Al and Kay embrace on a crowded street.

####40 Pounds of Trouble####
A casino manager (played by Tony Curtis) and his club singer, Chris Lockwood (played by Suzanne Pleshette), find their hands full when they agree to take in a troublesome young girl named Penny Piper (played by Claire Wilcox), left behind in the casino by her gambling father. The little girl hinders the manager's plans to keep his gaming licence. Penny thinks that Steve needs to get married and settle down, so she starts trying to match make, trying to set him up with Chris. Steve is still reeling from his failed first marriage and is apprehensive about another trip to the altar. The movie's culmination involves a slapstick pursuit through Disneyland.

####711 Ocean Drive####
Telephone technician Mal Granger, with knowledge of telephones and electronics, is hired by gangster Vince Walters to expand Walters' legitimate business that is a front for an illegal bookmaking operation. The expansion is a great success, and Granger also develops a better system for gathering information at racetracks. Granger wants a cut of the action and threatens to leave unless Walters makes him a 20% partner. Walters accedes to the demand.

When Walters tries to collect from a bookie, the bookie kills first Walters, then himself. Granger takes control of the wire service and the racket, making him a target for Lieutenant Wright of the Los Angeles police.

East Coast mobster Larry Mason is sent by boss Carl Stephans to persuade Granger to join his syndicate. Granger and Mason's wife Gail are attracted to each other.

Granger decides to accept a 50/50 split with his new partners. Some of the independent bookies do not like the new arrangement (and the extra 20% "protection" fee) and refuse to go along. They are roughed up by Syndicate goons.

Granger's assistant Trudy discovers that he is being shortchanged. Granger complains and is told that the shortfall is the result of "necessary expenses." He vows to get his money.

Granger and Gail pursue their attraction. After Mason beats Gail, Granger hires a hitman named Gizzi to kill Mason with a rifle. After the hit, Gizzi decides to blackmail Granger, who agrees to pay $25,000 at a rendezvous at the Malibu Pier, but there Gizzi announces he intends to become Granger's silent partner. Granger uses his car to crush Gizzi to death against the pier's railing, then sends the man's body over the side.

Using his telephone know-how, Granger places a call to Wright that makes it appear he is in Palm Springs and thus has an alibi for the murder. Wright tapes the call and hears a streetcar whistle; there are no streetcars in Palm Springs, so the police deduce he was actually in town. The police eventually match the paint from Granger's damaged car to Gizzi's murder.

Granger decides to retire and escape to Guatemala with Gail, but first he sets out to collect what is owed to him. With the help of Gail and Chippie, he taps into a phone line at a mob betting parlor in Las Vegas and pulls off a pass-post swindle, intercepting and taping race results to be rebroadcast after a two-minute delay, giving Gail and Chippie time to place substantial bets on the foregone winning horses. Chippie, however, is recognized by a man who bears a grudge against Granger. He tells Stephans, who has Chippie brought to him, and learns where Granger can be found. Stephans passes the information along to Wright, content to let the police rid him of a troublesome colleague.

With the police closing in, Granger and Gail flee to Boulder Dam, trying to cross the state line to get out of Wright's jurisdiction, but encounter a roadblock. They join a tour group and descend into the dam. Gail collapses from fatigue while running, Granger is shot and apparently killed before he can find his way to the Arizona side.

####Back to the Future Part II####
On October 26, 1985, Dr. Emmett "Doc" Brown arrives unexpectedly in the DeLorean time machine. He persuades Marty McFly and his girlfriend, Jennifer Parker, to travel to the future with himrefn|group=N|As depicted at the end of "Back to the Future". and help their future children, with Biff Tannen witnessing their departure. They arrive on October 21, 2015, where Doc incapacitates Jennifer electronically leaving her asleep in an alley, explaining that she should not have too much knowledge of future events. He has Marty pose as his son and lookalike Marty Jr. to refuse an offer to participate in a robbery with Biff's grandson Griff, thus saving Marty Jr. from prison.

Marty switches places with Marty Jr. and refuses Griff's offer, but Griff goads Marty into a fight, and a subsequent hoverboard chase ensues. Griff and his gang are arrested, saving Marty's future children. Before rejoining Doc, Marty purchases an almanac containing the results of major sporting events from 1950 to 2000. Doc discovers it and warns Marty about profiting from time travel. Before Doc can adequately dispose of it, they are interrupted by the police, who have found Jennifer incapacitated and are taking her to her 2015 home. They pursue, as does the elderly Biff, who has overheard their conversation and retrieved the discarded almanac.

Jennifer wakes up in her 2015 home and hides from the McFly family. She overhears that her future self's life with Marty is not what she expected, due to his involvement in an automobile accident. She witnesses Marty being goaded by his co-worker, Douglas Needles, into a shady business deal, resulting in Marty's firing. Jennifer tries to escape the house but faints after encountering her 2015 self. While Marty and Doc attend to her, Biff steals the time machine to give the almanac to his younger self, then returns to 2015. Marty, Doc, and an unconscious Jennifer return to 1985, unaware of Biff's actions. They leave Jennifer on her front porch.

The 1985 they return to has changed dramatically, with Biff now one of the country's wealthiest and most corrupt men. He has turned Hill Valley into a chaotic dystopia, secretly killed Marty's father, George, in 1973, and forced Marty's mother, Lorraine, to marry him. He also helped Richard Nixon remain President of the United States. Biff's effects on history affected the whole world. In this version of history, the Vietnam War was also still ongoing by May 1983. Doc has been committed to a mental hospital. Doc deduces that old Biff took the time machine to give his younger self the almanac, and Marty learns from the alternate 1985 Biff that he received it on November 12, 1955. Biff tries to kill Marty, but Marty flees and travels to 1955 with Doc.

Marty secretly follows the 1955 Biff and watches him receive the almanac from his 2015 self. Marty then follows him to the high school dance, carefully avoiding interrupting the events from his previous visit. After several fruitless attempts, Marty finally gets the almanac, leaving Biff to crash into a manure truck.

Marty burns the almanac, nullifying the changes to the timeline that it had caused, as Doc hovers above in the time machine. Before Marty can join him, the DeLorean is struck by lightning and disappears. A Western Union courier arrives immediately after and delivers a letter to Marty; it is from Doc, who tells him that the lightning strike transported him 70 years in the past to 1885.refn|group=N|The letter's contents are later explored further in "Back to the Future Part III". Marty races back into town to find the 1955 Doc, who had just helped Marty to return to 1985. Shocked by Marty's sudden reappearance, Doc faints.

####The Big Town####
In 1957, J. C. Cullen is a small-town crapshooter who heads to Chicago, Illinois, to seek his fortune. There he becomes the pawn of two high-rolling professional gamblers, Mr. and Mrs. Edwards. He later gets mixed-up in a revenge scheme cooked up by Lorry Dane, the embittered stripper wife of strip-joint owner George Cole. Before he knows what's happened, Cullen is embroiled in two torrid romances: one with Dane and the other with nice girl Aggie Donaldson. He also nearly loses his life by ending up in the middle of a deadly feud between Edwards, Cole, and Phil Carpenter, the man Mr. Edwards accuses of causing him to lose his eyesight.

####Early to Bet####
The narrator introduces the Gambling Bug, demanding he stand up so everyone can get a look at him. Three examples are then offered, showing what happens should this Gambling Bug "bite" someone, giving them "gambling fever". First, a restaurant customer is seen coaxing a frustrated waiter (named Luigi) to allow another in what has clearly been a series of coin flips to determine payment for a meal.  Next, two men at a bar bet five dollars ("five bucks") that a buzzing fly will land on one or another glass of beer first. Then, another man puts a coin in a casino slot machine and watches the wheels spin around until three oranges appear. He jumps for joy until he sees the payout is three actual oranges instead of a money jackpot. Enraged, he begins punching the slot machine.

After that introductory segment closes with a somber warning for "folks" (the audience) to watch out for the Gambling Bug, the bug chooses to leave his victims alone for a day, and goes on vacation. Out walking, the bug is surprised by a dog who strides by and pulls a black and white cat from beneath a farm building. The dog, apparently a card sharp, suggests the cat might like to play cards for penalties. The cat adamantly refuses, says he is through playing cards with the dog and, somewhat irritated, goes to sit on a nearby log. The Gambling Bug immediately sees this as an irresistible opportunity and bites the cat's ear.

Now the cat, wound-up and anxious to bet, dashes back to the dog repeating, "Gimme the cards, deal 'em out, let's go, come on!" They play gin rummy for penalties and the cat promptly loses. After he briefly transforms into a "sucker" (a lollipop), he dejectedly heads over to and spins the Penalty Wheel. He lands on Number 14: "The Gesundheit", which he finds out when picking the appropriate file out of a nearby file drawer. He begs not to be punished with Raymond Scott's Powerhouse (section B) music as background, still he is forced to blow bubble gum as the dog shakes "sneeze powder" (pepper) on his nose; the resulting huge sneeze causes the bubble gum to completely cover the cat. After the dog says 'Gesundheit', the cat becomes enraged and tries to break free from the gum.

The cat refuses to play cards any longer and sits back down on the log.  The Gambling Bug speaks into his ear, "We gotta play percentage.  We'll try again," and bites the cat's ear again.  Excitedly looking to get even, he sits down with the dog once more and, in spite of trying to play smart, instantly loses again. This time the Penalty Wheel lands on Number 75: "The William Tell". This entails the dog using a bow to fire, Robin Hood-like, a toilet plunger at an apple on the cat's head.  The cat ensures the biggest apple possible is poised so the dog will not miss, but the plunger is aimed, successfully, into the cat's face. The cat pulls the plunger off his face and starts jumping on it in anger.

Before biting the ear a third time, the Gambling Bug suggests the cat is due for a winning streak. But, as the bug is saying to himself, "He can't lose all the time," we hear the dog announce, "Gin again." The bug replies "Or can he?". The Penalty Wheel stops at Number 36: "Roll Out the Barrel". The dog fires a starter pistol and the cat rolls a barrel, trailing gunpowder, along a hilly road into the distance. The dog puts a match to the powder, which burns exceptionally quickly and blows the cat back to where he started.

Hobbling up with a broken leg, influenced yet again by the Gambling Bug's bite, the cat tries to play but the dog refuses, declaring the cat too unlucky and walks out. The bug steps in and suggests he and the cat cut the deck for the highest card. The cat draws a three of hearts. The Gambling Bug says, "Not so good, cat. Watch!" and is shocked when he ends up drawing a two of diamonds. The cat decides the penalty will be "The Post", which means the cat will attempt to whack the Gambling Bug with a "Post" newspaper.

####Easy Come, Easy Go####
Martin Donovan's compulsive gambling leaves him constantly broke and under arrest from a gambling-house raid. He also places bets for tenants of his boardinghouse, who lose their money and ability to pay the rent.

Martin's daughter, Connie, is courted by cabbie Kevin O'Connor and cop Dale Whipple while her dad fears losing her. Kevin wins her heart, but loses every cent due to taking Martin's betting advice. When the two men are arrested, a disgusted Connie bails them out but leaves Kevin for the more responsible Dale.

Tim Donovan, brother of Martin, has a job with the police as a diver. He and Martin come upon a sunken treasure, but Martin, whose philosophy is "easy come, easy go," promptly squanders all the loot. Not knowing what else to do, Connie tries to solve her dad's debts by taking bets on a horse race. Dale ends up arresting her. The horse wins, but it takes a car accident for Martin to finally see the light and the error of his ways.

####Gambling Lady####
Mike Lee raises his daughter Lady Lee to be as honest a gambler as he is. When he gets too much in debt to the underworld syndicate headed by Jim Fallin, he commits suicide rather than be pressured into running a crooked game. Lady initially goes to work for Fallin, then quits and sets out on her own when he tries to "help" her by providing a crooked dealer.

Longtime admirer and bookie Charlie Lang proposes to her, but it is persistent young Garry Madison who wins her heart, despite unknowingly bringing two policemen in disguise to the illegal gambling den where she is playing. She resists marrying him, fearing the reaction of his high society father, Peter, but Garry is pleased to learn that she already knows and likes his father, a fellow gambler. However, Peter does disapprove of the union, offering to buy her off. When she rejects his money, but meekly gives up Garry, Peter realizes he has mistaken her motives. Being a sporting man, he offers to cut cards for his son. He draws a jack, but Lady picks a queen, and the young couple get married.

They are happy at first, but then both feel the pangs of jealousy. When Garry's old girlfriend, Sheila Aiken, returns from Europe, he makes the mistake of greeting her too warmly. Lady challenges her to a game of cards, and wins her jewelry. When Charlie Lang is arrested, Garry refuses his wife's request for $10,000 to bail him out, so she pawns Sheila's jewels to raise the money. Charlie offers to reimburse her, telling her that he intends to pressure the syndicate into paying for his silence about what he knows. Garry becomes incensed when Lady's involvement with Charlie is reported in the newspapers. He goes out to recover the pawn ticket, now in Charlie's hands. Garry does not return that night.

The next day, two policemen inform Lady that Garry has been arrested for Charlie's murder, having been seen arguing with him and later being found in possession of the pawn ticket. Lady figures out that Garry spent the night with Sheila, but is unwilling to use that as an alibi. Lady sees Sheila, who is willing to testify, but only if Lady divorces her husband and insists on $250,000 alimony. Lady agrees to her terms.

Garry is released and the divorce is granted. Both Garry and Peter believe at first that Lady was in it for the money all along, but when Peter sees her tear up the check, he realizes they were wrong. Garry tricks Sheila into admitting the truth, then reconciles with Lady.

####Jinxed!####
Bonita Friml is a Las Vegas lounge singer whose husband Harold Benson is a cigar-smoking recreational gambler with a long winning streak. It seems that he cannot lose to one blackjack dealer in particular, a man named Willie Brodax. When the casino notices Willie's losing streak, they fire him, figuring that he must be jinxed. Willie then lands another blackjack-dealing job in Reno, Nevada and Harold follows him there, forcing Bonita to abandon her lucrative singing gig to accompany him.

When Willie sees that Harold is now in Reno, Willie reports Harold to security, but they find no evidence of cheating. Milt Hawkins, who works with Willie at the casino, suggests that Willie  "get a piece of" Harold the way that Harold "got a piece of" him. Willie follows Harold and eventually finds Harold's mobile home. Willie then encounters Bonita, and the two fall in love. She tells Willie that she is tired of living with her domineering husband and wants to have Harold murdered. She tries to convince Willie to help with the murder plot, but he is hesitant. When she insists, he agrees to help her, but on one condition: if he can break the jinx, the murder plans will be canceled.

When the fateful day arrives, Harold shows up to play blackjack against Willie as usual. Harold's winning streak continues, but just when he has wagered all of his money on one final hand, a woman sitting next to him becomes annoyed by the cigar that he has been smoking for good luck. She yanks the cigar away from him and extinguishes it. When he hits on his blackjack hand, he makes 20, but a surprisingly calm Willie manages to get 21, thus finally beating Harold. Willie has broken the jinx, and Harold is now flat broke. But when Willie phones Bonita to call off the murder plot, she doesn't answer the phone.

When Harold arrives home, he pretends that he had won big so that Bonita will not know that they are broke. When Harold in the shower, he is so distraught that he commits suicide by sticking his finger in an open light-bulb socket. Willie arrives, sees Bonita hovering over the dead body, and assumes that she had killed her husband. She assures Willie that it was a suicide, which makes him regret having beaten Harold. When Bonita hears this and learns that Harold had lost everything, she begins to panic. Willie reminds her of the life insurance money that she is sure to receive, but she points out that the insurance policy had a suicide clause that prevents her from collecting. She and Willie decide to make Harold's death look like an accident.

Willie drives off towing Bonita's trailer behind him and, while stopped in a remote location, places Harold's corpse behind the wheel of the truck. Willie rolls the truck and trailer into a ravine, then heads back into town. When police discover the crashed vehicle, they conclude that Harold must have died in an accident, meaning that Bonita can now receive the insurance money. But when she goes to file the claim, she learns that Harold had allowed the policy to lapse, thus dashing any hope that she may receive benefits. However, Harold did leave her a letter that sends her on a scavenger hunt for clues that will instruct her how to get the money that she will need. The clues spell "J-O-N-A-H," as in Jonah, the Biblical prophet who was infamously jinxed in the Old Testament.

Knowing what this means, Bonita heads to the casino, sits down at Willie's table, and begins to play blackjack. During her gameplay, she smokes the same kind of cigar that Harold always smoked for good luck. She embarks on a winning streak of her own, upsetting Willie and his supervisors, who fear that his jinx has returned. After he is fired from this job, he drives away in his car, only to find Bonita hiding in the back seat waiting for him. She wants him to join her in a new scheme in which he will go from casino to casino working as a dealer, and they will split the money that they will make when she wins the casinos' money by playing against him.

####Lady from Louisiana####
Yankee lawyer John Reynolds and Southern Belle Julie Mirbeau meet and fall in love on a riverboat going to New Orleans in the Gay Nineties. Upon arrival they are met by Julie's father who runs the popular Louisiana State Lottery Company and Reynold's Aunt Blanche who is a key figure in the anti-lottery forces hoping Reynolds, as State's Attorney, will end the lottery.

Reynolds is invited to the Mirbeau mansion, where Julie and her father explain that not only are the people of New Orleans fun-loving gamblers, but the lottery funds many charitable institutions such as hospitals and levees for the river.

Unknown to General Mirbeau is his assistant Blackie's protection rackets and murders of lottery winners through his army of thugs led by Cuffy Brown. The lottery forces also have information sources in the State's Attorney's office that reveals every move Reynolds has planned to raid illegal activities as well as corrupting judges and other officials through their brothels.

The battle between the two forces escalates, leading to a climax of lightning striking and destroying a courthouse where a trial is going on and a break in the levees during torrential rains that flood the city.

####Win It All####
Eddie Garrett is a gambling addict working as a parking attendant outside Wrigley Field. One morning Eddie finds Michael, a local thug, sitting in his kitchen. Michael asks Eddie to store a mysterious duffel bag, without opening it or asking questions, while he is in prison for six months, promising to pay Eddie $10,000. Eddie agrees, but a few days later gives in to temptation and opens the bag, finding several odd objects and a large sum of cash.

Although advised by his addiction recovery sponsor Gene not to touch the money, Eddie eventually takes $500 from the bag and gambles it. He wins money, returns the $500 to the bag, and invites his friends to celebrate at the local bar. While there, Eddie meets Eva, a local nurse. They hit it off and Eddie makes plans to see her again.

Feeling good, Eddie again gambles and loses all his profit. He begins a downward spiral of gambling that ends with him owing the bag over twenty-one thousand dollars. Desperate, he calls Gene for help and confesses his gambling. At first he mocks him, but finally decides to help.

Eddie begins attending addiction counseling regularly and approaches his brother Ron for a job. Ron agrees to give him a job for six months, and if Eddie works hard and meets his obligations then Ron will loan him the money to pay the bag back. He shows up to work on time the next day and begins sorting his life out.  He regularly pays the bag back and grows closer to Eva, even introducing her to his family.

After six weeks of hard work Eddie gets an unexpected phone call from Michael in prison. He's being released early and will be over to retrieve his bag in a week. Panicked, Eddie approaches Ron and begs him for the money to repay the bag but Ron refuses, believing he wants to gamble. Eddie gets drunk and loses even more money from the bag before the casino bans him. Bottoming out, he goes to Gene's in the middle of the night for help. He convinces Eddie to come to the meeting the next day.

After the meeting, Gene and Eddie stop at a diner. Eddie begs him to help and he finally relents.  Seeing no other way out, Gene agrees to get Eddie into a high stakes poker game with the condition that if Eddie goes broke he will leave town.  Eddie and a friend drive to the game with the bag and Eddie buys in for $15,000.  After losing double that, Eddie takes a break and panics, deciding that he has to run. He calms down and decides to put the rest of the money in the game at once.

After playing awhile he wins a huge pot and is back up with a profit. He wants to continue playing but his friend insists he cash out. Beginning to argue, he then clutches his chest and collapses. He is cashed out and driven to the hospital where he wakes the next day, late for dinner with Eva's family.  He talks Ron into driving him to Eva's, and the movie ends with Eddie happily eating dinner with Eva and her family. Meanwhile, Michael is confused as to why he has $400 more than he started with.

####Yours for the Asking####
Johnny Lamb runs a secret casino in Miami. He meets impoverished socialite Lucille Sutton and decides to open a casino at her mansion. His friends worry Lucille will ruin Johnny so they hire con artists Gertie Malloy and Dictionary McKinney to impersonate socialites to seduce Johnny. Johnny falls for Gertie and asks for Lucille's help in wooing her.

