####Batman: Year One####
Billionaire Bruce Wayne returns home to Gotham City after 12 years abroad, training for his eventual one-man war against crime to avenge his dead parents. James Gordon moves to Gotham City with his wife, Barbara Gordon, after a transfer from Chicago. Both are swiftly acquainted with the corruption and violent atmosphere of the city. Gordon tries to focus on purging corruption from the Gotham City Police Department after witnessing his partner, Detective Arnold John Flass, abuse his power as a cop. Unfortunately, several officers led by Flass beat him on the orders from his corrupt superior, Commissioner Gillian Loeb. In revenge, Gordon tracks Flass down, beats him, and leaves him naked and handcuffed in the snow.

Bruce believes he is still unprepared to fight against crime despite having the skills he learned from abroad. He goes in disguise on a surveillance mission in Gotham's red-light district, but is reluctantly drawn into a brawl with several prostitutes, Holly Robinson and Selina Kyle. Two police officers shoot Bruce on sight and take him away in their patrol car. Bruce breaks free, flees from the scene and returns to Wayne Manor barely alive. He sits before his father's bust, requesting guidance in his war against crime. A bat suddenly crashes through a window and settles on the bust, inspiring him to save Gotham as Batman.

Crimes significantly decline after weeks of Bruce acting as Batman. He even goes after Flass, who is in the middle of accepting a bribe from Jefferson Skeevers, a drug dealer of Carmine "The Roman" Falcone. Batman interrupts a dinner party held at the mansion of Gotham's mayor and announces that everyone in the party shall be brought to justice for their crimes someday. Infuriated by Batman's threats, Loeb orders Gordon and GCPD Detective Sarah Essen to arrest him. The two cops later come across a runaway truck that nearly hits an old lady. Batman manages to save the lady's life while Gordon stops the truck. Batman then flees into an abandoned building where Loeb immediately orders a bomb dropped on. He also sends in a SWAT team led by a trigger-happy commander, Branden, to kill any survivors left in the building. Batman uses a signal device to attract a swarm of bats from the Batcave as his only route to escape. After witnessing Batman in action, Selina is inspired to don a costume of her own and begin a life of crime.

Gordon and Essen have a brief affair together and spend two months dating. She, however, chooses to leave Gotham upon learning he is going to be the father of Barbara's unborn child. Gordon is left alone to investigate Bruce's connection to Batman. He travels to Wayne Manor with Barbara to interrogate Bruce, who uses his playboy charms to divert suspicion. While leaving the manor, Gordon confesses his affair with Essen to Barbara. Skeevers gets bailed with the help of a hired lawyer, but is attacked by Batman shortly after who convinces him to testify against Flass. Skeevers is drugged with rat poison as an assassination attempt, so that he remains silent about the ties between the police force and the mafia, although Skeevers survives after all.

Bruce sneaks into Falcone's manor as Batman and overhears the private conversation between the Roman and his nephew, Johnny Viti. He predicts their intentions to target Gordon's family, so he disguises himself as a motorcyclist to help Gordon. Gordon leaves home on Loeb's orders, but becomes suspicious and turns back only to discover Viti and his men already holding his family hostage. Viti flees the scene with Gordon's infant son. Gordon chases after him on Bruce's motorcycle. The two men end up fighting on a bridge until the baby falls. Bruce catches up on time and leaps over the bridge's railing to save the baby while Viti dies from the fall. Gordon thanks Bruce for saving his infant son's life and lets him go. Flass supplies Assistant District Attorney Harvey Dent with the evidence and testimony needed to implicate Loeb, who resigns in disgrace. Gordon is promoted to captain and prepares to meet with Batman in order to investigate a potential plot orchestrated by a criminal calling himself the Joker.

####Catwoman: Hunted####
Catwoman infiltrates a gangster costume party hosted by Barbara Minerva in Spain, which is also attended by Gotham City mobster Black Mask who is seeking to join Leviathan, the crime cartel which Minerva leads. As his entrance fee, Black Mask delivers the Cat's Eye Emerald. Catwoman promptly steals the gem and shakes off most of the pursuing gangsters in a furious car chase. Just then, Batwoman blocks her way, causing Catwoman to crash her car, and Minerva's aide Tobias Whale recovers the emerald. In revenge for this theft, Minerva has Catwoman marked for liquidation.

Catwoman regains consciousness aboard a jet plane bound for Shanghai in the custody of Batwoman and Interpol agents Julia Pennyworth and King Faraday. Batwoman and the agents explain that the emerald was rigged as a tracking beacon to find and take down Leviathan's entire leadership cadre in one strike. In exchange for Catwoman's cooperation in this case, they offer her complete amnesty for her past crimes. Catwoman agrees, but in between she makes telephonic contact with her friend Holly asking about the status of a group of girls in her care. After the exact location is found, Catwoman and Batwoman infiltrate the meeting place, but are forced to battle hired assassins Cheshire and Nosferataefn|Nosferata is a vampiric enemy of Kon-El, the second Superboy, who debuted in "Superboy" Vol. 4 #50, April 1998. which results in the Leviathan bosses Black Mask, Doctor Tzin-Tzin, Mister Yakuza, La Dama, her demonic auxiliaries Abbadon and Morax, and Moxie Mannheim joining the fight. The cartel bosses and Whale are defeated and arrested, but Minerva manages to get away. Catwoman receives her pardon and walks away, seemingly shrugging off the threat Minerva still poses to her life.

Some time later, Catwoman is still active, but constantly harried by ninjas from the League of Assassins sent by Minerva's associate Talia al Ghul, Leviathan's true leader. After Batwoman helps her defeat the latest assassin detachment in Paris, Minverva unleashes Solomon Grundy on them. Batwoman is knocked out, but Catwoman defeats Grundy by stuffing his mouth with lit dynamite sticks from a construction site. Forced to take matters into her own hands, Minerva appears before Catwoman, changes into her werecheetah form, and chases after her quarry. Catwoman retreats onto the boom of a construction crane, where she taunts Cheetah by revealing that she was responsible for recently breaking up one of Leviathan's human trafficking operations in Sochi, freeing a group of girls slated for underage prostitution and taking them under her care. When Cheetah attacks, Catwoman outdodges her and strangles her into submission. A subsequent lightning strike throws Cheetah off the crane and into the steel bars of a reinforced concrete column, impaling her, although her superhuman physiology enables her to survive.

As Interpol takes Cheetah and Grundy into custody, Catwoman takes her leave after warning Faraday that Leviathan is far from being finished and revealing that she had deliberately targeted the cartel with the theft of the Cat's Eye Emerald, in vengeance for the trafficked girls' plight. After secretly nabbing the jewel from the jet's safe as well, she next travels to London to "pick up a few things at the Tower".

####Chase Me####
Bruce Wayne gazes out the window of the Wayne Enterprises building during a party, before being pulled to the dance floor by three lovely young ladies. Each has a turn before Alfred rescues Bruce, who dives into a nearby elevator. When he reaches his office, he discovers Catwoman looting the safe. Catwoman pins Bruce to the wall while she finishes robbing the safe, and makes her escape. Bruce frees himself and gives chase as Batman.

Batman pursues Catwoman across the rooftops, and the chase begins. She dives off a roof and falls several stories below into busy traffic, breaking her fall with an overhanging banner and swinging onto a tour bus. She poses for some pictures until Batman lands on the tour bus, prompting Catwoman to flee once again.



They jump on a milk truck tanker and Catwoman blows the tires out. The truck spins off, and Batman pursues after her, ignoring the truck dumping gallons of milk onto a couple of stray cats, as well as Harvey Bullock.

They jump on a train, where Batman loses track of Catwoman after going through a tunnel, only to see her trail leading into a zoo. Detouring through the Large Cats exhibit, she distracts Batman by freeing the lions and setting a panther on him. He escapes through the sunroof while Catwoman runs into an aviary, only to be chased out by a colony of bats. She is then cornered by Batman against the gates of the zoo. She notices he was scratched earlier, and leans in to kiss him. Batman pushes her away, and she appears hurt. Batman then sweeps her into his arms and kisses her.

The police arrive, and Catwoman looks around, concerned. She pushes at Batman to leave. Batman then slowly smiles at her before taking the bag of money and leaving. Catwoman smiles, thinking she has been let off easy, only to find herself handcuffed to the fence. She falls to the ground, despondent.

A remorseful Bruce Wayne looks through the window at the party, again, watching police cars fly past below, before a woman grabs his arm and pulls him back to the party.

####The Exigency####
At his place of work, Kyle Burton receives a promotion as two alien spaceships begin wreaking havoc on Earth. After managing to destroy one of the spaceships, he drives home and picks up his wife Melissa. The pair then chase the school bus carrying their two kids, Timmy and Becky, and have the children jump into their car. A resulting car accident knocks most of the family unconscious as a different, larger spaceship approaches and abducts Kyle and his family.

After gaining consciousness, Kyle is told by Nyklus, Assistant General in the Space Force Division, that the spaceship was sent by King Sargon, ruler of the planet Gallesha, to rescue and retrieve Kyle as a final attempt to help end a war with the neighboring planet of Anumbis, ruled by an alien tyrant named Diederick. Kyle reveals to his family that he is a retired human war hero from Gallesha, where he served as a commanding general. A curious Timmy visits Captain Keon and learns that they have traveled outside the Milky Way. Through the use of a warp drive, the crew travels across dozens of lightyears before arriving in the solar system containing Gallesha.

Kyle meets with Sargon and tells him that he does not want to participate in the war against Anumbis. Sargon responds by telling Kyle that Diederick wants to take over the Universe and could potentially target Earth. After talking with Diederick over a video call, Kyle agrees to visit a banquet hosted by Sargon to announce his decision to the public. During a train ride, Kyle tells Melissa that when he was a child, his family was murdered during a surprise attack from a nearby planet, leaving him and his brother, Nell, as the only survivors. After running away, a man named Mangular offered to give Kyle and Nell a place to hide until the battle was over and would later go on to raise them into disciplined, strong men. After becoming a soldier for Gallesha, and being promoted to commanding general, Kyle gained a mindset that without any wars, he would have no one to fight. As a result, he fought Diederick for apparently no reason to create tension between Gallesha and Anumbis, which eventually escalated into war.

In the present, Kyle meets with Nell and tells him that instead of fighting in the war against Anumbis, he wants to help them come up with a strategy. This initially disappoints Nell, who believes Kyle is the only one who can help end the war. At the banquet, Kyle restates his decision and is told that a spaceship will take him back to Earth in half an hour. Meanwhile, Timmy is given a toy that can produce "musical bubbles" by Vayana, Kyle's ex-lover. After taking the toy away, Kyle notices that it contains a tracking device. Before he can throw it away, several explosions detonate at the banquet, knocking him out for a few seconds. Diederick and his army arrive and capture Kyle's family in the process.

After sustaining multiple shot wounds, Kyle watches as Diederick's army deploys a four-armed alien cyborg. He manages to escape and is ordered to lead the cyborg towards Gallesha's army. After doing so, Kyle sees that the cyborg has managed to overpower and kill dozens of soldiers. Kyle battles the cyborg by throwing a grenade at it and shooting it several times. The cyborg overpowers him, but Kyle manages to destroy it with a second grenade. Soon after, Kyle visits and confronts Sargon about the recent attack, believing there to be an inside job. He later receives a video call from Diederick, who reassures him that his family is safe but that he will only see them again if Gallesha surrenders. As a result, Kyle decides to lead Gallesha's army into battle as commanding general.

####Green Lantern: First Flight####
A long time ago, the Guardians of the Universe, the first race of sentient beings to ever exist, harnessed the power of the "green element", the greatest power imaginable, to create the Green Lantern battery. However, the battery was vulnerable to the color yellow, the one part of the light spectrum that could resist green. The Guardians hid the most concentrated source of yellow energy, the "yellow element", to prevent others from using it against them.

After the death of Abin Sur, several Green Lanterns arrive to take Ferris Aircraft's test pilot Hal Jordan (Christopher Meloni) to the Green Lantern Corps on Oa. He is placed under the supervision of respected senior officer Sinestro (Victor Garber), who is investigating Abin's murder. While undercover on the ship of Kanjar Ro (Kurtwood Smith) searching for the whereabouts of the stolen yellow element, Abin had come under attack. Fleeing to Earth, he had his ring find his successor and died of his injury shortly after. Unbeknownst to the other Green Lanterns, Sinestro had provided Kanjar with the location of the element in order to have it fashioned into a weapon of comparable power to the Green Lantern battery.

Jordan quickly comes to understand that Sinestro's beliefs are not in line with those of the Guardians: Sinestro believes that the Guardians have reduced the Corps to merely picking up the messes criminals create as opposed to proactively dealing with the problem. During a mission to capture Kanjar Ro, Jordan is knocked unconscious by Kanjar's energy staff. Sinestro comes in and kills Kanjar, pinning the blame on Jordan. As punishment, the Guardians strip Jordan of his ring.

While Jordan waits to be taken home, Sinestro uses his ring to temporarily animate Kanjar's corpse, allowing him to learn the location of Qward where the yellow element weapon is being fashioned. Jordan convinces fellow Lanterns Boodikka (Tricia Helfer) and Kilowog (Michael Madsen) that Sinestro is not what he seems. When they catch Sinestro enacting his plot, Boodikka reveals her true allegiance and incapacitates Kilowog, allowing Sinestro to escape. Jordan tricks her into destroying Kanjar's unstable energy staff, the explosion launching her into the tools hanging from the ceiling and killing her.

On Qward, the Weaponers bestow Sinestro with the yellow ring and battery, the latter of which resembles Ranx the Sentient City. Using its power, he lays waste to Oa, the yellow light easily overpowering the Green Lantern rings. The yellow battery destroys the green battery, rendering all the Green Lantern Corps' power rings inert and causing death by asphyxiation of countless Green Lanterns who were in space at the time of their rings' failure. Jordan, having recovered his ring moments too late, finds the battery and pounds on the inert green element. He places his ring on the small crack that appears, absorbing the whole of its power. Imbued with the full might of the green energy, he destroys the yellow battery by crushing it between two moons.

Having exhausted most of the green power to destroy the yellow battery, Jordan is left to fight against Sinestro under his own power. After an intense hand-to-hand battle without constructs, Jordan uses the last of his power to knock Sinestro to the surface of Oa where Kilowog crushes the yellow ring (as well as Sinestro's hand) with his foot. Having regained partial power to his ring earlier, Kilowog takes to the air and saves Jordan from a fatal fall to the planet's surface.

Once Oa is rebuilt and the Green Lantern battery restored, the Guardians give the privilege of leading the Corps in reciting the Green Lantern oath to Jordan. Jordan then leaves for Earth to check in with his other boss, Carol Ferris (Olivia d'Abo), remarking on the long "commute".

####Batman & Mr. Freeze: SubZero####
Since his last encounter against Batman, Victor Fries has made a home for himself in an Arctic cave with a newly adopted Inuit son, Koonak, and polar bears Notchka and Shaka. His wife, Nora, remains in her cryogenic chamber while he seeks a cure for her illness. A research submarine surfaces through the frozen floor of the cave, shattering Nora's containment vessel and causing her to rapidly deteriorate. Fries freezes the submarine crew and returns to Gotham City, enlisting his old colleague Dr. Gregory Belson to help find a cure.

Belson determines that Nora's only chance at survival is an organ transplant, but due to her rare blood type there are no suitable donors. Fries declares they will use a live donor, even if it means killing an innocent person, and bribes a reluctant Belson into compliance with a promise of gold that will end his financial problems. After learning that Barbara Gordon (Batgirl) is a perfect match, Fries kidnaps her while she is on a date with Dick Grayson (Robin). Barbara is taken to an abandoned oil platform, where Fries and Belson falsely tell her they need her for a blood transfusion to save Nora. Barbara reluctantly agrees to help.

Back in Gotham, Bruce Wayne (Batman) and Dick investigate Barbara's kidnapping, which leads them on the trail of Belson, whose wrecked car Bruce had discovered earlier in a deep puddle on the night of his disappearance despite no rain. They investigate Belson's home and track Belson's broker, Dean Arbagast, who explains Belson's debts to them. In the process, Belson calls Arbagast from the oil platform and a passing ship sounds its horn, leading them to learn where Fries has taken Belson and Barbara. They also deduce Fries's plan from a list of supplies used for an organ transplant that Belson left behind. As they head for the oil rig, Barbara realizes Fries and Belson have been lying to her and escapes with the help of Koonak, who Fries had falsely promised that Barbara would not be harmed. Batman and Robin arrive in the Batwing and they confront Fries and Belson, who accidentally starts a fire by shooting at the fuel tanks. Fries traps Batman and Robin and orders Belson to perform the operation despite the fire spreading rapidly across the rig, but Belson pushes Fries under some falling debris and attempts to escape. Fries survives with a broken leg, while Belson is crushed by the falling helipad while escaping in a speedboat.

Batman and Robin escape and free Fries with Barbara's help. He begs them to save Nora and Koonak first, who Barbara helps get on the Batwing. Despite his efforts, Batman is unable to save Fries, who plummets to his apparent death. Batman makes it back to the Batwing and they fly away just as the rig finally explodes. Fries, however, is revealed to have survived, and swims to safety with the bears.

Sometime later, Fries has returned to the Arctic, and sees on a television in a research station that while the world believes him dead, Nora has been revived after an organ transplant funded by Wayne Enterprises, moving him to tears of joy.

####Batman: Mask of the Phantasm####
A young Bruce Wayne and Andrea Beaumont begin a relationship after meeting while visiting their respective parents' graves. During this time, Bruce makes his first attempts at crime-fighting. While he succeeds in foiling robberies, he is discouraged that the criminals do not fear him. Bruce becomes conflicted about whether to commit to his relationship with Andrea or defend Gotham City to avenge his parents, but eventually he proposes marriage. Andrea accepts, only to mysteriously leave Gotham with her father, businessman Carl Beaumont, ending the engagement in a Dear John letter. Heartbroken, Bruce assumes the mantle of Batman.

Ten years later, Batman breaks up a meeting of Gotham crime bosses led by Chuckie Sol. When Sol tries to escape in his car, a cloaked figure, the Phantasm, causes him to speed out of control and fatally crash into a building. Witnesses see Batman at the scene, and believe him to have killed Sol. City councilman Arthur Reeves, who is corrupt and on the mob's payroll, vows to have Batman arrested.

The Phantasm murders another gangster, Buzz Bronski, in the Gotham Cemetery. Bronski's bodyguards see Phantasm and mistakenly believe them to be Batman. Batman investigates the scene of Bronski's death and encounters Andrea, inadvertently revealing his identity to her. Batman finds evidence linking Carl Beaumont with Sol, Bronski, and a third gangster, Salvatore Valestra, later finding a photograph of the four together in Valestra's home. Paranoid that Batman will come for him next, the now-elderly Valestra asks Reeves for help but is refused. In desperation, he turns to the Joker.

The Phantasm goes to kill Valestra at his mansion, only to find him dead from exposure to Joker venom. Seeing the Phantasm through a camera, Joker realizes Batman is not the murderer and detonates a bomb he planted in the mansion. The Phantasm escapes the blast and is pursued by Batman but disappears, leaving Batman ambushed by the police but saved from arrest by Andrea. She later explains to Bruce that her father embezzled money from Valestra and was forced to repay it; Valestra then demanded he pay more and put a hit on Carl, prompting him to go into hiding with Andrea. While Bruce considers resuming his relationship with Andrea, he concludes that Carl Beaumont is the Phantasm. However, Bruce takes another look at the photo of Carl and Valestra, and recognizes one of Valestra's men as the Joker.

Joker presses Reeves for information, believing him to be behind the Phantasm in an attempt to erase his mob connections, before poisoning him with venom which drives him insane. Reeves is taken to the hospital, where Batman interrogates him, and he confesses that while previously working as Carl's accountant, he helped the Beaumonts escape, but revealed their location to Valestra in exchange for funding his first city council campaign. Both Batman and Joker deduce that the Phantasm is Andrea, who intends to wipe out the Valestra mob for killing her father and robbing her of a future with Bruce.

Andrea tracks down Joker, her father's killer, to his hideout in Gotham's abandoned World's Fair. They fight but are interrupted by Batman, who begs Andrea to stop, to no avail. Joker prepares to destroy the fair but is seized by Andrea, who bids Batman goodbye as the explosives detonate. Batman survives the blast but finds no trace of either Andrea or the Joker.

Alfred later consoles Bruce in the Batcave, assuring him that Andrea could not have been helped, before finding Andrea's locket containing a picture of them together. A sorrowful Andrea departs Gotham and a saddened Batman, cleared of accusations against him, resumes crimefighting.

####Batman: Mystery of the Batwoman####
After the events of "The New Batman Adventures", the Joker and Harley Quinn have been married and are on their honeymoon out of Gotham City, leaving Batman and Robin to face a brand new mystery; a new heroine, Batwoman, has arrived in the city, whose identity is a mystery. While she claims to fight for justice, Batwoman forsakes Batman's code to never take a life. Batman must figure out who she is, while stopping the Penguin and Rupert Thorne from selling illegal weapons to the fictional nation of Kasnia. The two villains employ gangster Carlton Duquesne to provide protection.

Batman, with Robin, sets out to stop Batwoman from making mistakes as she tries to take out the villains and as he encounters numerous twists, setbacks, and apparent false leads in determining her true identity. Bruce Wayne, Batman's alter ego, also becomes romantically involved with Kathy Duquesne, the crime boss' daughter.

In addition to Kathy, Bruce is introduced to two other women who, as his investigation into the Batwoman's true identity continues, seem to fall well into suspicion: Dr. Roxanne "Rocky" Ballantine, a new employee of Wayne Tech, who seemingly but briefly forms a bond with Tim Drake and whose technology development Batwoman uses against Penguin; and Detective Harvey Bullock's new partner Sonia Alcana, who seems to know too much about the weapons being smuggled by the Penguin and Carlton Duquesne. With Carlton unable to stop Batwoman's raids on the facilities used to hold the various weapons, the Penguin calls Bane for additional support to ensure that there are no more losses as a result of the Batwoman.

Not long after Bane's arrival in Gotham, it is revealed that there is not one, but three Batwomen, all of whom were the women suspected by Batman. Kathy and Sonia met taking art classes at college, and Sonia and Rocky were roommates; and they all harbor grudges against the Penguin, Thorne, and Carleton Duquesne: the Penguin had framed Rocky's fiancé Kevin, Thorne had bankrupted Sonia's family, and Carlton Duquesne's war with a rival gang got Kathy's mother (his wife) killed. They had taken turns posing as Batwoman to remove suspicion on any one of the three: Rocky invented Batwoman's gadgetry with Kathy's funding; and Sonia invented the Batwoman persona as a tribute to Batman, who had saved her life nine years earlier and inspired her to become a police officer.

Kathy plants a bomb in the ship taking the weapons into international waters for the exchange – but not before Bane unmasks her. Kathy and Batman narrowly escape as the bomb goes off, while Carlton forsakes his ties to Thorne and the Penguin to save his daughter's life, and Bane falls into the Gotham River. Sonia takes the fall for the Batwoman operation, resigns from the GCPD, and decides to leave Gotham. Batman gives Sonia evidence that he discovered which helps clear Rocky's fiancé. Carlton agrees to testify against Thorne and the Penguin. After reconciling with her father, Kathy drives off with Bruce.

####Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens####
Ben, Gwen, and their paternal grandpa Maxwell Tennyson spend their evenings battling aliens on Bellwood's streets. During a battle that involves chasing and fighting a robotic tank, Ben as Upgrade and Gwen argue about the best way to defeat it, resulting in Gwen utilizing her extraordinarily strong magic to cast a dismantling spell on the tank while Ben is still attached to it. Though this does defeat the tank, unknown to the group, it leads to a malfunction in the Omnitrix.

Later, after a mishap in school where J.T. and Cash lock Ben in his locker, and the Omnitrix accidentally teleports his homework away in a sudden flash of green-pink energy, Ben is grounded by his parents, Carl and Sandra, and forced to stay at home to do a history report. Ben attempts to work on the report before the Omnitrix teleports his laptop away as well. Shortly afterwards, Ben's alien friend Tetrax Shard arrives and tells Ben that Azmuth has asked to meet with him. They go to meet Azmuth, but end up attacked by a To'kustar (Way Big's species). Tetrax and Ben start to fight the alien, who is teleported into the Omnitrix, though neither of them is aware of it. Tetrax decides to take Ben to search for Azmuth and activates a new function on the Omnitrix. Before he can explain this new ability, the ship is attacked and Ben is sucked out into the atmosphere, falling to the ground as Diamondhead.

It is later revealed that the new ability prevents Ben from returning to human form when the Omnitrix times out, simply switching into another one of his alien forms. Ben as Four Arms arrives at Stonehenge, but is confronted and attacked by a Galvanic Mechamorph (Upgrade's species), with abilities of forming weapons and armor from its body and teleportation, who demands to know about the To'kustar that had attacked Ben. Ben explains to the Mechamorph that he knows nothing, but it only continues to attack, and its teleportation ability causes the pair to carry the rest of their battle across the globe: after destroying part of Stonehenge, they nearly damage Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro and fight at the Great Pyramids in Egypt before arriving back in Bellwood. Ben transforms into Grey Matter and manages to escape the Mechamorph.

Meanwhile, Gwen and Grandpa Max receive a call from Ben's parents informing them that Ben is missing. They go in search of him only to find Tetrax. The three discover Azmuth's ship, but with no sign of Azmuth. Looking at the ship's log, they discover that Azmuth disguised it as a truck to track down and fix the malfunctioning Omnitrix, but crashed and was destroyed by the To'kustar. After escaping the Mechamorph, Ben as Grey Matter is mistaken as a small creature by his parents before Gwen, Grandpa Max and Tetrax soon encounter him back at his house. Tetrax restores Ben's Omnitrix to normal just as the Mechamorph catches up to them. Gwen deduces how the Omnitrix reacts after Ben returns to his human form and realize what has happened just as she, Ben, Tetrax and the Mechamorph are transported into the Omnitrix itself.

Inside, Ben and the Mechamorph continue to battle before being attacked by a swarm of Lepidopterrans (Stinkfly's species) just as Gwen and Tetrax are ambushed by a pack of Vulpimancers (Wildmutt's species). The four catch up with each other and they realize that the To'kustar is inside with them just as he resurfaces. The Mechamorph reveals himself as Azmuth's father, who attacks the To'kustar to avenge the death of his beloved son, while Gwen explains to Ben about the malfunction that she accidentally caused to the Omnitrix when she cast the dismantling spell on the robotic tank while Ben was attached to it. She uses Azmuth's father to reverse the transportation and return them all to Earth.

Azmuth's father pursues and fights the To'kustar, but the Omnitrix malfunctions again and transforms Ben's parents into a mindless Vulpimancer and a pyronite (Heatblast's species), causing Gwen to realize that the Omnitrix had transformed Azmuth into the very To'kustar they are fighting. Leaving Grandpa Max and Tetrax to fight his mutated parents, Ben and Gwen follow Azmuth's father and Azmuth to the city where Ben transforms into Way Big to battle Azmuth and hold off his father while he and Gwen try and reverse the accidental transformation, although the three-way battle causes massive damage (yet apparently without causing any civilian deaths) to the city in the process. Ben and Gwen finally convince Azmuth's father that his son is the To'kustar, and the three work together to help Azmuth regain control of himself via Gwen casting a nonverbal mind-based spell to bring back Azmuth's consciousness.

Now regaining his senses, Azmuth proceeds to use his father's Mechamorph abilities to fix the Omnitrix and subsequently allow it to return himself to normal. Azmuth reprimands Ben and Gwen for their errors and reveals that his father is actually a Galvan like him, wearing a Mechamorph-type enhanced armor that, as Azmuth reprimands him for as well, amplifies any anger of the user explaining his behavior. Hearing Azmuth explaining of how the Omnitrix was so filled with pink mana, Gwen wonders just what he is referring to, with Azmuth telling her that she will find out eventually. Returning to Ben's house, Azmuth restores Ben's parents to normal, albeit unconscious and their memories of grounding their son lost due to the effects of the transformation, and repairs the Rust Bucket, previously destroyed in the battle, before leaving to reconcile with his own father.

After Azmuth, his father and Tetrax are out of sight, Ben's parents regain consciousness and telling him to enjoy his fishing trip with Grandpa Max and Gwen. Ben declines, having learned to be more responsible then before and stays home to finish his history report for school. It ends with Ben, Gwen, and Grandpa Max on another road trip where they encounter Doctor Animo and the three prepare for another exciting battle of extraterrestrial, mystical, and highly advanced technological might yet again.

####Bling####
In a future where robots are commonplace, Sam is a lowly theme park mechanic in a robot theme park called RoboWorld in New York. He is in love with his girlfriend and childhood sweetheart Sue Widdington (who works as a reporter for channel six news) and wants to propose to her in a spectacular way with a bling ring on the upcoming Valentine's Day. He lives with 3 robots he built namely Kit, Okra and Wilmer who all want to be popular superheroes. After buying an expensive engagement ring for Sue, Sam and the trio witness the robbery of another expensive ring by famous supervillain Oscar and his robot henchman Victor. Apparently Oscar is madly in love with the mayor Catherine who is Sue's aunt who doesn't love him. He forces her to accept his proposal in her office but when it doesn't work he escapes with the help of Victor. Sam makes another spectacular plan to propose to Sue during the Valentine's Day parade. Oscar makes plans to force Catherine to accept his proposal by creating a giant robot (that has a head that resembles his) made from smaller robots disguised as ATMs that would destroy the city if she doesn't accept his proposal. He remakes the ring he stole into a remote control for all his robots including Victor. After planting the robots as ATMs in RoboWorld, he and Oscar bump into Sam and Sam mistakes Oscar's ring as his and tries to take it not knowing that his own ring is in his pocket. Victor takes the ring and the two supervillains drive off. Sam and his friends chase after them still convinced that Oscar took Sue's ring.

The chase leads into a dangerous confrontation with Victor and ends with the robot henchman endangering a school bus in a Cloud Road and running off with the ring. Sam and friends save the bus and get praised as heroes. They track Victor to Oscar's lair and steal the ring only for them to face Victor and Oscar's robots in a deadly confrontation. During the fight, Sam's friends realize that the ring belongs to Oscar but decides to help Sam escape so that he could propose to Sue. Sam escapes to propose to sue only to find out the ring is Oscar's. He stops and Sue becomes disappointed in him for not being able to propose and walks off. Dejected, Sam walks off sadly. meanwhile, Victor finds Sam's ring and gives it to Oscar and they both head off to the Valentine's Day parade with an army of robots. En route, Victor discovers that Oscar never really cared about him and only became a villain because of Catherine, so he rebels against him only to be fired and kicked out by Oscar. Feeling betrayed, Victor pledges revenge and meets Sam who gives him Oscar's ring sadly. At the Parade, Catherine is interviewed by Sue and Oscar appears and assembles his giant robot and discovers that the ring given to him by Victor is Sam's. Victor appears and declares he will destroy the city and that he no longer works for Oscar. He ascends into the giant robot and uses Oscar's ring to control it. Sue inspires Sam on TV to save the city and he and his friends rush off to defeat Victor. After a great battle, Sam tells Sue how much he loves her and creates a large plan to defeat Victor and the giant robot. With the help of the robots at RoboWorld and his friends Victor and the giant robot are finally defeated. Oscar is sent to jail but not before he tells Catherine he became a villain to impress her. Catherine who never really liked Sam tells him that he had finally become a great man worthy of Sue. Finally, Sam proposes to Sue with his own handmade ring to which she says yes, giving the movie a happy ending.

####Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie####
In Piqua, Ohio, George Beard and Harold Hutchins are two fourth-grade friends and next-door neighbors who often bring joy to their school, Jerome Horwitz Elementary School, by excessively pranking the staff at the school, especially their cruel principal, Mr. Benjamin "Benny" Krupp, which puts them at odds with him. The duo also creates comic books about a superhero named Captain Underpants, a character who has superpowers yet merely wears underwear and a cape. They sell these to their schoolmates through a comic company called "Treehouse Comix Inc.", located in their treehouse. George and Harold's pranks come to an apparent end when they are caught on camera tampering with a toilet invention, the Turbo Toilet 2000, made by their tattletale classmate, Melvin Sneedly. Mr. Krupp decides to put the boys in separate classes, believing that he can end their friendship with it.

To prevent this, George hypnotizes Mr. Krupp with a "3-D Hypno-Ring" he received out of a cereal box. As the boys have noticed that Mr. Krupp bears a resemblance to Captain Underpants, they command him to be so. The boys soon learn the severity of this when Captain Underpants begins causing trouble around Piqua and thus decide to take him to their treehouse. There, they discover that they can turn Captain Underpants back into Mr. Krupp by splashing water on him and back into Captain Underpants by snapping their fingers. Realizing that Mr. Krupp will continue trying to separate them, they decide to settle with Captain Underpants yet insist that he be dressed up as Mr. Krupp under the pretense of a "secret identity", to which Captain Underpants reluctantly agrees. Subsequently, his sudden personality change manages to attract the attention and affection of the school's shy lunch lady, Edith.

Just when George and Harold believe that their troubles have ended, an odd scientist named Professor Pee-Pee Diarrheastein Poopypants Esq. (Esquire) applies to become the new science teacher at the school, whom Captain Underpants (still disguised as Mr. Krupp) hires. This makes George and Harold suspicious of him due to his short-tempered and violent behavior. It soon turns out that Poopypants is seeking to get rid of laughter altogether due to people never taking him seriously because of his name.

With Captain Underpants as the principal, the school is a more lively place, with a fair being set up in the yard. However, a rainstorm occurs and Captain Underpants turns back into Mr. Krupp, who finally finishes the paperwork to put George and Harold into separate classes. Meanwhile, Poopypants recruits Melvin into his plan, as he has no sense of humor and does not find his name funny. Soon, Poopypants tries to take over the town with a giant version of Melvin's Turbo Toilet 2000, fueled by the school cafeteria's toxic leftovers left out by Edith, and uses Melvin's brain as the power source to a zombie-ray to turn the children into dull and humorless zombies. Captain Underpants tries to stop them, but due to having no actual superpowers, he's effortlessly defeated and thrown into the toxic pool. George and Harold are captured and turned into zombies but are able to escape when their laughter from a joke that made them friends in kindergarten overloads the zombie-ray, which damages the Turbo Toilet 2000's computer and returns the kids to normal. Upon consuming the toxic leftovers, Captain Underpants acquires superpowers and, with George and Harold's help, defeats and shrinks Poopypants, who escapes on a bee shortly thereafter.

Knowing that they can't control Captain Underpants forever, George and Harold destroy the Hypno Ring in order to permanently change him back into Mr. Krupp. Also realizing that they can still be best friends while being in separate classes, the boys take an oath to declare themselves as friends forever. Feeling that Mr. Krupp would be a lot nicer if he had friends, the boys set him and Edith up on a date, making Mr. Krupp have a change of heart and return the comics he confiscated from George and Harold. However, the toxic waste from the Turbo Toilet 2000 transforms all the toilets at a scrap yard into an army of Talking Toilets, which attack the restaurant where Mr. Krupp and Edith are dining. Upon snapping his fingers accidentally, Mr. Krupp once again becomes Captain Underpants, carrying George and Harold away to help them fight the Toilets to Edith's surprise and admiration.

####DC League of Super-Pets####
Superman grows up with a Kryptonian Labrador Retriever named Krypto, who goes by the name Bark Kent in everyday life. Krypto feels jealous when Superman starts dating Lois Lane, so Superman goes to an animal shelter to find Krypto a friend. A Boxer named Ace tries to escape the shelter, but Krypto stops him. Later, Superman and Krypto spot their archenemy, LexCorp CEO Lex Luthor, reeling in a meteor strapped with orange kryptonite with a tractor beam, intending to gain superpowers. He is easily defeated as the two are aided by the Justice League.

Meanwhile, Lulu, a guinea pig test subject from LexCorp sent to the shelter, reels in a piece of orange kryptonite with her own tractor beam, which gives her flight and telekinesis. Unbeknownst to her, everyone else in the shelter also gains superpowers. Ace is now super-strong and indestructible; PB, a potbellied pig, can change size; Merton, a nearsighted turtle, becomes super-fast; and Chip, a paranoid squirrel, gains electrokinesis. While at home, Superman and Krypto have an argument when the former plans to propose marriage to Lois. However, Clark is captured by Lulu. Krypto tries to save him, but loses his powers after eating some green kryptonite hidden inside a piece of Jarlsberg cheese. Later, Krypto comes across the shelter pets, who agree to help him.

Meanwhile, Lulu recruits a group of guinea pigs, captures the Justice League, and heads to Stryker's Island to free Luthor. The shelter pets try to stop her, but fail miserably. They regroup in the Hall of Justice, where Ace tells a distraught Krypto he used to be the puppy of a family with a toddler. One day, the toddler nearly fell down the stairs when Ace bit her arm and pulled her to safety. Upon seeing the bite-marks, the parents assumed Ace attacked her and sent him to the shelter. However, Ace stands by his actions and ideals. Encouraged, Krypto leads the pets to LexCorp. While there, a kitten named Whiskers, who Lulu rescued from the shelter and can now create weapons at will, attacks them, but the team traps her. At Stryker's Island, the shelter pets confront Lulu, but put themselves in prison cells when she threatens to kill Krypto. Lulu frees Luthor, who betrays her and locks her in his cell while freeing Mercy Graves. Lulu breaks out easily and decides to destroy the Justice League and Luthor herself.

The Kryptonite passes through Krypto's system, restoring his powers. He breaks himself and the other super pets out of prison, and attempts to free the Justice League, but Lulu launches them into space, along with Luthor. In order to stall Krypto, she attempts to kill Lois. However, the other super pets rescue the Justice League while Krypto saves Lois and defeats Lulu, but she absorbs the orange kryptonite, becoming a mutated "kaiju"-sized version of herself. The League and the pets team up to stop her. Realizing she has become too powerful, Krypto decides to use the "Solar Paw Punch", a move that can defeat any supervillain, but will likely kill the user. The attack causes a massive explosion that removes the kryptonite from Lulu's brain and, shortly thereafter, her redeemed henchmen, Mark and Keith, trap her in a hot dog stand. Krypto accepts his fate, but Ace uses his invulnerability to save him.

In the aftermath, Krypto allows Clark to marry Lois. The shelter pets, Mark, and Keith get adopted by the rest of the Justice League, with Ace being adopted by Batman. Sometime later, the pets have formed their own superhero team called the "League of Super-Pets".

In a mid-credits scene, Luthor is still trapped in his prison asking any passing super-animals to free him. Meanwhile, Lulu is freed by Mercy, who adopts her.

In a post-credits scene, Krypto and Superman encounter Black Adam and his dog, Anubis. Krypto tricks them into flying to Pluto.

####FernGully: The Last Rainforest####
Crysta is a fairy of curious nature who lives in FernGully, a picturesque rainforest free from human pollution. The fairies of FernGully once lived in harmony with humans, but believe them to have gone extinct after having been driven away by a dark spirit named Hexxus. Crysta is the apprentice of Magi, a fairy who imprisoned Hexxus in a tree. One day, Crysta explores a new part of the forest and meets Batty Koda, a bat who claims to have been experimented on by humans, giving him a manic and deluded personality. However, fairies refuse to believe him except for Crysta who volunteers to investigate the situation. She meets Zak, a young lumberjack whom Crysta accidentally shrinks when she tries to save him from being crushed by a falling tree, though does not know how to restore him to normal size. Zak initially believes Crysta to be hostile, but gains trust in her when she saves him from a hungry goanna.

The tree that Hexxus is imprisoned in is cut down by Zak's supervisors Tony and Ralph. Hexxus quickly begins to regain his powers by feeding on pollution. He manipulates Tony and Ralph to drive to FernGully. In FernGully, Zak meets Pips, a fairy jealous of Zak's relationship with Crysta. Zak begins to fall in love with Crysta, but hides the true reason that the humans had returned. When the signs of Hexxus's resurrection begin to manifest themselves in poisoned trees and rivers, Zak finally admits that humans are destroying the forest. The fairies mount an attempt to defend their homes. Knowing their fight is hopeless, Zak convinces Batty to aid him in stopping the machine before it destroys them. When Zak makes his presence known to Tony and Ralph, Hexxus takes over the machine and begins to wildly destroy the forest.

Magi sacrifices herself to give the fairies a chance, and she tells Crysta to remember everything she's learned. Zak manages to stop the machine, depriving Hexxus the source of his power, but he manifests himself within the oil in the machine and begins to ignite the forest ablaze. Crysta sacrifices herself by allowing herself to be devoured by Hexxus and all seems lost until he begins to sprout limbs and leaves like a tree. Pips and the rest of the fairies rally to the powers they have been given, which causes the seed that Crysta fed Hexxus to start growing wildly. Hexxus and the machine are both simultaneously imprisoned by the newly grown tree at the very border of FernGully which bursts into bloom.

Crysta appears after the fight, having survived, and succeeds Magi as a magical fairy. She gives Zak a seed, begging him to remember everything that has transpired, and she forlornly restores him to his human size. Remembering the seed in his hand, Zak promises to remember his adventure, and buries the seed in the soil before telling Tony and Ralph that things need to change as they leave the forest behind. The seed sprouts new growth for FernGully as Crysta playfully chases Pips with Batty following.

####Hercules####
In Ancient Greece, the gods Zeus and Hera have a son named Hercules. While the other gods are joyful, Zeus' wicked brother Hades plots to overthrow Zeus and rule Mount Olympus. Through the Fates, Hades learns that in eighteen years, a planetary alignment will allow him to free the Titans to conquer Olympus, but only if Hercules does not interfere. Hades sends his imp minions, Pain and Panic, to murder Hercules, providing them with a potion that can strip a god of immortality. The two kidnap the baby, take him down to the valley and feed him the potion. However, before Hercules drinks the last drop, two farmers pass nearby and startle the demons, causing them to drop the bottle. Hercules is stripped of immortality but retains his god-like strength. Pain and Panic attempt to murder the baby by turning into snakes, but Hercules easily overpowers them. The pair decide not to report their failure to Hades.

Years later, the teenage Hercules becomes an outcast for his inability to control his strength. Wondering about his origins, he decides to visit the Temple of Zeus for answers. Once there, a statue of Zeus comes to life and reveals all to Hercules, telling him that he can earn back his godhood (and return to Olympus, to his family) by becoming a "true hero." Zeus sends Hercules and his forgotten childhood friend Pegasus to the satyr Philoctetes ("Phil") who is known for training heroes. Phil has retired in frustration after none of his past students managed to earn a constellation in the sky. Phil agrees to train Hercules after seeing his strength, and with persuasion from Zeus. After completing the training, Phil and Hercules head towards Thebes. On the way, they meet Megara ("Meg"), a sarcastic damsel with whom Hercules falls in love after saving her from the centaur Nessus. Unbeknownst to Hercules, Meg is Hades' slave and was actually trying to recruit Nessus. She had sold her soul to Hades previously to save a lover who then left her. When Meg mentions what happened, Hades realizes that Pain and Panic failed him and plots to finish off Hercules properly.

Arriving in Thebes, Hercules is met with skepticism by the locals, but then Meg appears, saying that two boys are trapped under a large rock in a gorge. Hercules lifts the rock and rescues the boys, unaware that they are Pain and Panic in disguise, and unwittingly releases the Hydra. Much to Hades's chagrin, Hercules defeats the monster and becomes a celebrated hero. Hercules defeats many other monsters, many of which are sent by Hades, and his popularity and fortune grow. However, Zeus tells him that he is not yet a "true" hero and refuses to explain what that means. Saddened and frustrated, Hercules spends a day out with Meg, and they start falling in love. Hades learns of this, and on the eve of his takeover, he holds Meg hostage and offers her freedom in exchange for Hercules surrendering his powers for a day. On the condition that Meg will be unharmed, Hercules accepts and is heartbroken after learning that Meg was working for Hades all along.

Hades unleashes the Titans, who climb Olympus and defeat the gods, while the Cyclops goes to Thebes to kill Hercules. Hercules uses his wits to defeat the Cyclops. Unfortunately, during the battle, Meg is mortally injured (while saving Hercules from a falling building). This breaks Hades's promise that Meg would not be harmed, so Hercules regains his strength. Hercules and Pegasus fly to Olympus, free the gods and vanquish the Titans, but Meg dies before he can return to her.

To recover Meg's soul, Hercules goes to the underworld and risks his life by leaping into the River Styx. Thanks to his heroic act, Hercules's godhood/immortality is restored while in the river, and he is able to reach Meg's soul and save her. Hercules knocks Hades into the river, where he is trapped by other spirits. After reviving Meg, she and Hercules are summoned to Olympus, where Zeus and Hera welcome their son home, saying that he has proved himself a "true hero" through the "strength of his heart." However, rather than join the gods there, Hercules chooses to forgo his godhood and remain on Earth with Meg. The heroes then return to Thebes, where they watch Zeus form a constellation in Hercules' honor.

####Koala Kid####
In Australia, a white koala named Johnny is teased about his color, so he joins a traveling circus with the help of Hamish, a Tasmanian Devil, and Higgens, a spider monkey photographer. He is disappointed that he is part of the freak show instead of the main acts in the big tent. The top act is "Wild Bushman" who takes all the audience from the freak show. Johnny checks out the show and accidentally becomes part of it, and The Wild Bushman saves him.

While traveling to a new location, their wagon train car becomes unattached and crashes in the desert of "The Outback". On their quest to go to the next location of the traveling circus, "Precipice Lake", they come upon a billabong. They witness from their cliff location a pack of dingos, Blacktooth, Loki, Cutter, and Butch, as well as their thylacine ally Hex, chasing a bilby but is rescued by a kangaroo named Mac, a wombat army, and Miranda, a vine-swinging female koala talented at throwing a boomerang. A vulture named Boris reveals that a Saltwater crocodile named Bog intends to take over the billabong. When their rescue goes wrong, and the dingos threaten to take over, the rock Johnny is on breaks free, and he slides down the cliff and ends up rolling on top of a boulder, chasing the dingos away. Hamish introduces the now-famous white koala as "Koala Kid". Miranda is unimpressed, but Johnny watches her from a tree as she practices. When noticed, Miranda breaks the branch he is on with her boomerang and complains about him watching in secret. He tries to lie out of that accusation but ends up suggesting he is an expert at the boomerang and is proven wrong when offered to try it himself.

Hamish plans to take photos of Johnny doing heroic stuff and make him famous as Koala Kid, so when they get back to the circus, they can get in the main act rather than the freak show and earn Hamish more money. Bog is not impressed with his gang getting chased by a koala, so he orders them to capture Koala Kid. In the chase, Miranda's younger sister Charlotte gets covered with cosmetic powder and mistaken for the Koala Kid resulting in her getting kidnapped. The billabong residents plan to rescue Charlotte but must cross the dangerous "Bungle Bungles" on their way to Precipice Lake. This convinces Hamish to go along with Johnny's conscience and join the team to rescue Charlotte.

Johnny accidentally saves the day a few times during the trip, but Miranda is still not impressed. The two fall into a sinkhole and tell the rest of them to go on ahead. A giant goanna named Bull with a thorn in its foot hunts them. Johnny saves Miranda but soon realizes the lizard is suffering and pulls out the thorn. Bull becomes friends with Johnny, and the two koalas ride it out of the caves. Just as Miranda starts to take a liking to Johnny, Boris, the vulture, reveals that Johnny is just a freak show act and the "Koala Kid" thing is just a lie. Miranda tells him to leave but finds out that the gang will need to bring a koala to Bog instead of the real Koala Kid, and Charlotte will have to do. Miranda offers to take her place. Charlotte goes to find Johnny while the kangaroo and the wombat army manage to distract and capture all the gang but the vulture.

Charlotte finds Johnny along with Hamish, Higgens, and a prophetic peg-leg wombat named Quint, and they decide to help Johnny get what he really wants: Miranda. Johnny calls Bull and rides off, saving Miranda. Bog shows up and gives chase, so they head to the circus hoping the Wild Bushman will be able to tame Bog. Bog proves too powerful until Johnny uses the boomerang to bring down the big top on top of Bog (and himself).

Johnny, Miranda, and Bull become the main attraction, and the bad guys get sold as pets. Johnny asks Miranda if she likes her new life, but she is unsure. Plan B is they ride off into the sunset together.

####Megamind####
Supervillain Megamind and his arch-nemesis, the superhero Metro Man, are both aliens who were sent to Earth as infants before their planets were sucked into a black hole. Though both land in Metro City at the same time, Metro Man is raised in a mansion, while Megamind is raised in a prison. He goes to the same school as Metro Man, who is well-liked by his classmates. Megamind is bullied by everyone until he concludes his purpose is to be a supervillain, setting off a rivalry between him and Metro Man. As an adult, Megamind, aided by his fish-like companion Minion, frequently and unsuccessfully battles Metro Man for control of the city.

At the grand opening of the new Metro Man Museum, Megamind escapes prison, kidnaps reporter Roxanne Ritchi, and lures Metro Man to an abandoned observatory to rescue her. Once there, Metro Man collapses, claiming the copper-lined observatory roof weakens his powers; Megamind then blasts Metro Man with a sun-powered death ray, apparently killing him. Overjoyed that he has finally won, Megamind takes over the city and goes on a crime spree. However, he eventually becomes depressed and purposeless with no hero to fight.

Megamind decides to blow up the Metro Man museum to forget the hero, but sees Roxanne there and dehydrates the museum's curator, Bernard, into a small cube. Disguised as Bernard using hologram technology, Megamind talks to Roxanne, whose remarks inspire him to use Metro Man's DNA to create a new superhero to fight. Megamind perfects the formula, but accidentally injects it into Hal Stewart, Roxanne's dimwitted cameraman who is infatuated with her.

Disguising himself via hologram as Hal's "Space Dad", Megamind offers to train Hal to become a superhero. Hal, seeing this as a chance to get with Roxanne, accepts and takes on the name "Titan", though he misspells it as "Tighten". Megamind begins to date Roxanne in the guise of Bernard, and he and Minion have a falling out over Megamind's apparent lack of interest in committing further crimes. Roxanne rejects Tighten when he comes to court her, and Tighten later witnesses her on a date with "Bernard". After a heartbroken Tighten leaves, Megamind's "Bernard" disguise fails, and Roxanne rejects him as well.

Megamind arranges to fight Tighten the next day, but Tighten does not show up. Megamind learns that Tighten is now using his powers on a crime spree. Tighten offers to ally with Megamind, but the latter deliberately reveals his disguises and deceptions, hoping to goad Tighten into fighting. Angered, Tighten savagely beats Megamind in the fight. Realizing that Tighten has no interest in justice and means to kill him, Megamind traps Tighten in a ball of copper. However, Tighten easily breaks out. Megamind and Roxanne escape to Metro Man's old hideout, and discover that Metro Man is still alive, having faked his weakness and death to pursue his dream as a musician. Megamind and Roxanne attempt to enlist his help against Tighten, but he refuses to help. Metro Man tries to encourage Megamind to become the new hero by telling him that a hero will always rise to defeat evil.

Dejected, Megamind willingly returns to prison. Tighten goes on a rampage, and kidnaps Roxanne when she tries to reason with him. On a televised message, Tighten holds Roxanne hostage and demands that Megamind fight him. With Minion's help, Megamind escapes prison, where he goes to confront Tighten, using holographic disguises to make himself appear as Metro Man, and Minion as Megamind, to frighten Tighten away and rescue Roxanne. However, Megamind's speech patterns give him away, and Tighten attacks Megamind, throwing him into the stratosphere. Dehydrating himself into a cube and landing safely in a fountain, Megamind rehydrates next to Tighten and extracts the DNA from him, removing his powers. After Hal is arrested, Megamind and Roxanne rekindle their relationship, while the city celebrates Megamind as their new hero. The museum is rebuilt in Megamind's honor, and a disguised Metro Man cheers for him at the grand opening ceremony.

In a mid-credits scene, Minion discovers the real Bernard has been rehydrated in the washing machine. Bernard complains it has been the worst day of his life, before Minion knocks him out with his forget-me stick.

####Mickey, Donald, Goofy: The Three Musketeers####
Troubadour, a French-accented turtle, inadvertently injures the storyteller just before a live broadcast. Troubadour is hastily made to take the storyteller’s place, takes out his comic book, and tells the audience his favored version of The Three Musketeers.

In 17th century France, street urchins Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, Goofy, and Pluto, are one day harassed by the Beagle Boys; but are saved by royal musketeers. Mickey is gifted one of their hats, inspiring him and his friends to follow their example and become musketeers themselves. Years later, the trio are employed as janitors at the musketeers' headquarters, headed by Captain Pete. Pete mocks the trio’s desire to become musketeers, deeming them all too unfit for the job in addition to that, the three of them don’t do any of the janitorial jobs correctly without messing it up and always end up destroying parts the headquarters. They are ordered to work in the laundry dungeon as punishment.

Meanwhile, Princess Minnie narrowly avoids a large safe being dropped on her by the Beagle Boys. Captain Pete, revealed to be their boss, chastises them for attempting to assassinate her, as he wants her kidnapped so that he can take over the kingdom on the night of the Opera. In response to the attempt on her life, Minnie summons Pete, demanding he produce musketeer bodyguards to protect her. Pete realises that with experienced musketeers his plan will thwart but after witnessing yet another disaster, he decides to falsely recruit the incompetent Mickey, Donald, and Goofy as musketeers, elating the trio. Minnie falls in love with Mickey at first sight.

While on a carriage ride, the Beagle Boys ambush Mickey, Donald, and Goofy, easily defeat them, and kidnap Minnie and her lady-in-waiting, Daisy. Mickey encourages his friends to not lose hope, and they all hurry to rescue Minnie and Daisy from an abandoned tower. Goofy rushes in first, running up all the stairs and out a window into a series of events that catapults him back into the tower. The musketeers then engage the Beagle Boys in another fight. Donald hides, leaving Mickey and Goofy cornered, but Goofy manages to come up with an idea to jump out the window with Mickey to engage the same events as before in order to force the bandits out of the tower and into the river. Minnie and Daisy are rescued, and Minnie and Mickey spend time together and fall deeper in love.

Pete realizes that the trio is more of a threat than he originally anticipated, so he plans to get rid of them individually. While on night patrol, Goofy is lured away from the palace by Pete’s lieutenant, Clarabelle. Donald is chased by the Beagle Boys and delivered to Pete, who reveals his true nature after trapping him in a guillotine, though Donald manages to escape. Donald returns to the palace to inform Mickey what happened. While Mickey chooses to remain and stop Pete, Donald is too frightened and abandons him. Pete then ambushes Mickey, locks him in a dungeon at Mont Saint-Michel, and leaves him to die when the tide comes in to flood the cell.

Meanwhile, Clarabelle is about to kill Goofy by throwing him into the Seine. However, the two instantly become smitten with one another, and Clarabelle has a change of heart. Clarabelle informs Goofy that Mickey is in danger. Pluto leads Goofy to Mickey’s location, with Donald being dragged along. When Donald refuses to help save Mickey, Troubadour musically berates Donald for his cowardice, angering him into going with Goofy. The duo narrowly saves Mickey. When Mickey despairs that their status as musketeers was a lie, Goofy encourages him by stating that despite their flaws, there is nothing they can't accomplish while together. Rejuvenated, Mickey leads his friends to stop Pete and save the princess.

At the theater, Pete and the Beagle Boys then capture Minnie and Daisy, imprisoning them in a chest. One of the Beagle Boys impersonates Minnie and announces Pete as the new king of France to the public. Mickey, Donald, and Goofy arrive and battle Pete and the Beagle Boys onstage. Mickey, Donald, and Goofy come together and overpower Pete, allowing them to rescue Minnie and Daisy, who profess their love for Mickey and Donald, respectively. Minnie later officially dubs Mickey, Donald, and Goofy as royal musketeers, fulfilling their dream.

####PAW Patrol: The Movie####
In Adventure Bay, a truck driver named Gus crashes while trying to avoid a baby sea turtle and hangs over the town's suspension bridge. Cap'n Turbot comes across the scene while preparing to move the "Flounder" to another spot and calls Ryder, who sends the PAW Patrol pups, Marshall, Rubble, Chase, Rocky, Zuma, and Skye, into action. Chase manages to save Gus, revealing his truck is leaking maple syrup. He and Ryder bring the baby sea turtle back to its family.

Meanwhile in Adventure City, the PAW Patrol's arch-nemesis Mayor Humdinger has recently been elected mayor (although it pointed out that he was the only candidate on the ballot after the leading candidate suddenly dropped out). Knowing of Humdinger's infamous wrongdoings from Foggy Bottom, a dachshund named Liberty calls and begs the team to come to Adventure City to help keep the people safe from Mayor Humdinger. When the team is ready to go, but Chase refuses to go due to having a "history" in Adventure City when he was a young pup after he was abandoned by his previous owners, and the city was so big and he was so small. Ryder convinces him to go back while Chase reluctantly gives him his trust. The team is heading on a road trip to Adventure City, they arrived and get settled into their new satellite headquarters.

Meanwhile, Humdinger uses a Cloud Catcher device to clear up the weather after convincing its creator Kendra Wilson, so he can do his firework show. The show goes haywire and the team is alerted. They suited up and grab their vehicles to rush straight into a traffic jam, but Liberty arrives and guides them through alleyways and back streets to get to City Hall. They manage to take care of the situation, but Chase fails to save some people who are then rescued by Marshall instead. An infuriated Humdinger tells his henchmen Butch and Ruben to get rid of the PAW Patrol by any means necessary. That night, Chase keeps dwelling over his mistake while the next morning, Liberty reveals her first time helping her heroes like she's an honorary member of the team.

The next day, Humdinger builds an extension to the subway line with several inversions similar to a roller coaster  loop-de-loop section called the "Humdinger Hyperloop". It breaks and traps the passengers upside-down. The pups race to rescue them, but Chase freezes when his fear gets the best of him. Marshall manages to get the people down with his ladder while Skye goes to pick up Chase from the rooftop. Ryder suggests Chase should take a break from his duties, but this greatly hurts him and causes him to run away out of heartbreak after accusing Ryder of breaking his trust and giving up on him when things get difficult, hurting Ryder's feelings in response. Chase gets captured by Butch and Ruben and is taken to Fuzzy Buddies obedience school (which was turned into a dog pound) where he meets his fellow inmates Delores, Barney, Harris, and Rocket. While searching for Chase, Liberty and Ryder discover that numerous dogs have gone missing and he links them to Humdinger. Liberty gets captured on purpose and is taken to the obedience school where she comforts and rescues Chase while the other dogs who then chase off Butch and Ruben. The team is heading away from the obedience school and decides to split up.

While the others are on return to the Adventure City HQ, Ryder takes Chase to the street crossing intersection where he saved his life. Explaining that he chose to save him, not out of pity, but because he was the bravest pup he ever met. Chase's collar and pup tag is returned to him, as Ryder asks him to go to work and Chase agrees that he will resume his duties and rejoins the team. Meanwhile, the Cloud Catcher has gone critical and Kendra confronts Humdinger. He destroys the remote and reveals his building called Humdinger Heights. The Cloud Catcher unleashes weeks’ worth of bad weather into the sky, causing a massive hurricane over Adventure City. When Kendra calls the team for help, they deployed and grab their vehicles to be ready for launch, and Liberty then deployed and receives her own vehicle from Ryder, a three-wheeled scooter with a speed-booster (which was replaced by her wagon as a vehicle with a busted wheel) and her uniform (minus her collar and pup tag), temporarily joining the team. The team race to Humdinger Heights and forces them to improvise. Chase managed to save the citizens from the flying vehicles, while Marshall, Rocky, and Rubble work to keep the citizens inside Humdinger Heights, Zuma and Liberty go to the canals to save a family from a drowning car, and Skye flies into the air to stop the Cloud Catcher.

Ryder takes the elevator to the top office of the skyscraper tower and saves Humdinger by forcing him on an elevator and dropping him faster to the ground floor. He resorts to rappelling down the elevator shaft, but the storm destroys the tower and he is trapped in the building when it falls down. A horrified Chase notices that Ryder's in danger, he racing to drive up to save him and sees Ryder's light from the other side of the building. When he runs towards the other side, Chase realizes that there is a large gap between him and Ryder. Chase initially hesitates until he finds the courage to try, choosing to launch his grappling hook to the other side, Chase almost gets pulled from the tower when the fierce winds causing his pup pack to malfunction and nearly make him fall, forcing him to disengage his pup pack to save himself. Feeling his fear coming back, Chase remembers what Ryder said to him before, letting out a heroic scream and taking a leap of faith, and manages to make it across to the other side. Having made it to the far side, Chase sees Ryder pinned under the debris and works with him to get him free. After that, they share a moment and later leave the building while Skye destroys the Cloud Catcher in a kamikaze-style attack, sacrificing her helicopter (which is transformed into her jet) before it crashes and she flies back down to the city with her jet pack. After this, the skies are clear and sunny again, Chase and Ryder come out of the building and the pups are relieved to see them safe. Ryder is proud of his team and the citizens emerge from Humdinger Heights congratulating them for saving the city. Chase then catches Mayor Humdinger and places him under arrest for gross negligence, public endangerment, and "dognapping". While Humdinger tries to escape, he is stopped by Skye's mini-drone with his pants accidentally being ripped off and revealing his underpants.

The following day, the team is hailed as heroes and given the key to Adventure City in a major ceremony by Kendra and Adventure City News reporter Marty Muckraker. Liberty enters the stage and becomes an official member of the team, finally fulfilling her aspirations of doing so, and is given her own collar and pup tag. Ryder begins to make a speech about how they will always be there for Adventure City, but gets interrupted by a call from Harris, one of the dogs from the obedience school, saying there is another emergency down at the waterfront. Chase declares to Ryder that he and the pups are ready, the PAW Patrol then grab their vehicles and drives off to the rescue together.

During the credits, Mayor Humdinger and the Catastrophe Crew are shown to have been apprehended and detained for their crimes throughout the movie while being removed from the city mayoral office, the Cloud Catcher has been rebuilt, and Butch and Ruben are riding a tandem bicycle while pulling a cart full of cats.

####Phineas and Ferb the Movie: Across the 2nd Dimension####
Phineas and Ferb start another summer day playing with Perry and are inspired by him to create an enormous shuttlecock to play platypult (platypus + catapult) badminton. Perry enters his secret lair and is warned by Major Monogram that he has had some close calls with the Flynn-Fletchers almost seeing him entering his lair. He reminds Perry that if his cover is blown, he will have to be relocated away from the Flynn-Fletchers, and also reveals that Perry has an auto-scan replication device in his hat, which he has used to scan and replicate all of Doofenshmirtz's "inators" to determine whether Doofenshmirtz is getting smarter.

Perry leaves the lair in a hovercraft, but accidentally collides with the boys' shuttlecock while both are in flight, sending them off course. Doofenshmirtz begins his plan with his "Other-Dimension-inator", intended to create portals to parallel dimensions, but it fails to function and Phineas and Ferb later crash into it. Meanwhile, Candace, feeling that she is immature, decides to act more like an adult and use this mindset to bust the boys herself. However, she discovers that the boys' invention has disappeared and concludes the same "mysterious force" she believes keeps the boys from being busted is working against her now, and tries to find the source of it.

Phineas and Ferb, unaware that Doofenshmirtz is evil, assist him in repairing the machine and building a remote that allows them to use the portals. Perry arrives to stop Doofenshmirtz, but after seeing Phineas and Ferb there, he reverts to pet mode, not wanting to reveal his identity. Doofenshmirtz, Phineas, Ferb, and Perry travel to a parallel dimension, where an alternate version of Doofenshmirtz has successfully conquered the Tri-State Area with an army of robots and installed himself as dictator. Doofenshmirtz meets his counterpart, Doofenshmirtz-2, who has also converted Perry-2 into a Platyborg (platypus cyborg), who now serves as his second-in-command. Recognizing Perry as a secret agent, Doofenshmirtz-2 forces Perry to reveal his secret identity by having Platyborg attack them, much to the boys' shock. They escape, but Phineas is angry with Perry for his deception. Doofenshmirtz-2 explains to Doofenshmirtz that he was driven to evil because he lost a toy train as a child, enraging Doofenshmirtz as he still has yet to accomplish anything, despite his own backstory being more tragic.

The boys attempt to use the remote to return home but fails, prompting them to seek out their parallel-dimension selves, while Doofenshmirtz-2 plans to use another Other-Dimension-Inator reconstructed by Doofenshmirtz to invade the first Tri-State area and annex it into his regime. The boys meet their counterparts, who have been oppressed under Doofenshmirtz-2's rule, and introduce them to the concept of summer. When Doofenshmirtz-2 makes a public announcement that he will spare Phineas and Ferb if Perry surrenders himself, Perry agrees to the deal, but not before being rejected by an angry Phineas. Doofenshmirtz-2 learns that the boys had made some modifications to the Other-Dimension-inator that helped it to function, leading him to renege on the deal.

Phineas, Ferb, and their counterparts ask the alternate Isabella for help and find that she, as well as the alternate Baljeet and Buford, are part of an underground resistance organization led by the alternate Candace. Baljeet-2 explains that it takes a large amount of energy to open against the flow of dimensions, but he is able to open a highly unstable portal backwards into the first dimension. Upon learning about Perry's capture, Phineas and Ferb decide to rescue Perry before they can leave. In the first dimension, Candace spots the portal and, believing it to be the "mysterious force", jumps through, causing it to collapse. The kids catch Candace up to speed and set off to rescue Perry, but are captured by Doofenshmirtz-2 and his forces.

Perry distracts Doofenshmirtz-2 with a video call of Monogram in the shower, allowing the boys to escape through a tunnel. Platyborg attacks and damages one of the carts, slowing them down. Unwilling to endanger her own brothers, Candace-2 escapes with Phineas-2 and Ferb-2, but abandons Phineas, Ferb, Candace, and Perry, who are subsequently captured by Doofenshmirtz-2. The boys refuse to fix the machine, but inadvertently remind Doofenshmirtz how they fixed the machine by removing the self-destruct button. After Doofenshmirtz powers up the machine, Doofenshmirtz-2 orders Phineas, Ferb, Candace, and Perry to be fed to a monster called the Goozim; when Doofenshmirtz annoys him again, Doofenshmirtz-2 orders his execution as well. Before the five can be eaten, Candace-2 rescues them and gives them the remote, allowing Phineas, Ferb, Candace, Perry, and Doofenshmirtz to escape, but Candace-2 herself is captured. Doofenshmirtz-2 invades the first dimension with an army of robots.

Having traveled through multiple dimensions, Phineas, Ferb, Candace, Perry, and Doofenshmirtz made their way back to the first dimension. Perry gives Phineas and Ferb the locket off his collar, which is a key that leads them to Perry's lair. Inside, they find out that Perry had scanned and replicated all their previous inventions. With the help of their friends, the children of Danville, and the O.W.C.A. agents, Phineas and Ferb use the inventions to fight Doofenshmirtz-2's robot invasion, while Candace-2 is freed from prison by Phineas-2, Ferb-2, and Jeremy-2. Phineas and Perry climb to the top of Doofenshmritz's building to shut down the invasion, while Perry defeats Platyborg by shoving his spiked tail into a power outlet, electrocuting him. Phineas manages to destroy the satellite controlling the robots, disabling Doofenshmirtz-2's entire army. Candace, who has given up on adulting early after seeing the effects it has had on her alternate self, races to show the invasion to her parents in order to use the "mysterious force" to her advantage. Doofenshmirtz-2 tries to destroy Perry, Phineas and Ferb with a giant robot for foiling his invasion, but Doofenshmirtz arrives and gives Doofenshmirtz-2 his own toy train, resolving his counterpart's tragic backstory. Doofenshmirtz-2 stands down his invasion and destroys the remains of his robot army with a self-destruct button just in time for Candace to fail to bust her brothers, much to her joy.

Doofenshmirtz-2 is arrested when he returns home, and several residents from the other dimension arrive in the original dimension to thank their counterparts before returning. Platyborg's electrocution reverts him to his normal self, allowing Phineas-2 and Ferb-2 to take him home. Candace advises her counterpart to pursue a relationship with Jeremy-2 before she leaves. The kids learn that Perry will have to be relocated since his cover is blown, but Carl proposes using Doofenshmirtz's Amnesia-inator to erase their memories so they can keep Perry. Phineas and Ferb say their goodbyes to Perry, and Isabella kiss Phineas just before their memories are erased. Later, Perry enters his lair and uploads photos of the events.

####The Pirates! In an Adventure with Scientists!####
In London, 1837, Queen Victoria is told by her servants that England rules the entire ocean, with the exception of pirates, whom she despises (simply because they shouldn't be around anymore). Meanwhile, The Pirate Captain leads an unorthodox group of amateur pirates who are trying to make a name for themselves on the high seas. To prove his worth, The Captain enters the annual Pirate of the Year competition, with the winner being whoever can plunder the most treasure. After several failed attempts to plunder mundane ships, they come across the "HMS Beagle" and capture its lone passenger, Charles Darwin, who recognizes the crew's pet "parrot", Polly, as the last living dodo bird. Darwin recommends that they enter Polly in the Scientist of the Year competition at the Royal Society of London, and The Captain accepts, believing that winning the competition can help him win the Pirate of the Year award, despite his assistant, The Pirate with the scarf, advising him not to. Allowing The Pirate Captain and his crew to stay at his house for the night, Darwin plans to steal Polly for himself in order to impress Queen Victoria, whom he's smitten with. He has his trained chimpanzee Mr. Bobo steal Polly, but the plan fails.

The next day, the pirates disguise themselves as scientists to enter the competition, and the dodo display wins the top prize, which turns out to be a meeting with the Queen. The Queen requests that Polly be put in her petting zoo, but the Captain refuses and accidentally reveals his true identity. The Captain is about to be executed when Darwin reminds the Queen that Polly has been hidden and only the Captain knows where. The Queen pardons the Captain of his crimes and orders Darwin to find Polly by any means necessary. Darwin and Mr. Bobo take the Captain to a tavern, get him intoxicated, and steal Polly, but The Captain chases them into the Tower of London, where the Queen is waiting. She dismisses Darwin and Mr. Bobo and offers The Captain enough treasure to ensure his win for Pirate of the Year in exchange for Polly. The Captain accepts the offer and returns to his crew, assuring them Polly is still safe.

At the Pirate of the Year ceremony, the Captain is announced as the winner, but rival pirate Black Bellamy finds a newspaper revealing the Queen's pardon and explains that if pardoned, one is no longer a pirate. The Captain is stripped of his treasure and pirate attire and admits to his crew that he sold Polly to the Queen for the treasure, prompting them to abandon him. The Captain returns to London and reunites with Darwin, who has discovered that the Queen is part of a society of world leaders that dine on endangered creatures, and Polly is to be served at their next banquet. The Captain and Darwin work together to steal an airship and find the Queen's flagship, the "QV1", while Mr. Bobo sets off to retrieve the Captain's crew members.

Aboard the "QV1", the Captain and Darwin find Polly before she's cooked and eaten, but the Queen finds them and attempts to kill both of them. Mr. Bobo and the crew come to their aid, but while fighting the Queen, they accidentally mix the ship's stash of baking soda with vinegar, causing a violent reaction that explodes and breaks the ship in two. The Queen tries to escape with Polly in the airship that the Captain and Darwin came on. Polly causes her to rip a hole in the airship and drop Polly, and the Captain catches her before she falls into the ship's propeller. The Captain, along with Darwin, Mr. Bobo and the rest of his crew, escape safely, leaving the furious Queen behind on her deflating airship. Due to their actions, the Captain is targeted with the highest bounty known to pirates, with 100,000 Doubloons placed by the Queen, restoring his pirate reputation as well as marking him as the most dangerous pirate alive. Darwin stays on an island to study more exotic animals, and The Pirate Captain continues his exploits with his crew, now joined by Mr. Bobo.

####Spies in Disguise####
Lance Sterling, a cocky secret agent of H.T.U.V. (Honor, Trust, Unity and Valor), is sent to recover an attack drone from Japanese arms dealer Katsu Kimura in Japan. As soon as the buyer, cybernetically enhanced terrorist Killian, arrives, Sterling breaks in against the orders of H.T.U.V. director Joy Jenkins, defeats Kimura and his gang, and escapes with the briefcase containing the drone. Sterling returns to the H.T.U.V. headquarters to confront Walter Beckett, a socially inept MIT graduate and outcast young scientist, for equipping nonlethal weapons into his suit. Walter tries to convince Sterling that there is a more peaceful way to save the world but Sterling fires him before he can explain his latest invention: "biodynamic concealment".

Sterling discovers the briefcase to be empty and is confronted by Marcy Kappel, an internal affairs agent, who reveals footage of Sterling &ndash; actually Killian in a holographic disguise &ndash; leaving with the drone, labeling him as a traitor. Sterling escapes the H.T.U.V. and tracks down Walter to help him disappear. Meanwhile, Killian breaks into the H.T.U.V. covert weapons facility.

While searching Walter's home for his invention, Sterling ingests the concoction and transforms into a pigeon by undergoing "chromothripsis". Before Walter and Sterling can decide what to do next, Marcy and other H.T.U.V. agents chase the duo through the city, but the duo escape in Sterling's spy car. The two track down Kimura at a resort in Playa del Carmen, Mexico. There, they learn of Killian's whereabouts in Venice, Italy before Marcy and the H.T.U.V. can capture them again.

Arriving in Venice, Walter is confronted by the H.T.U.V., who are unaware of Sterling's condition. Revealing that she knows about Wendy, Walter's mother who was a police officer who died on duty, Marcy tries to convince him to help turn Sterling in, but Walter refuses. Suddenly, a drone distracts the H.T.U.V. and allows Walter and Sterling to escape. The two discover the drone carrying the H.T.U.V. agent database, and Walter retrieves it. Killian shows up, takes the database, and prepares to kill Walter. With help from hundreds of pigeons in the surrounding area, they distract Killian and flee. Disguised as Sterling once more, Killian escapes the H.T.U.V., shaking Marcy's suspicions of Sterling upon her seeing him with a robot hand.

Whilst underwater in a submarine, Walter reveals he planted a tracking device on Killian and locates him at the weapons facility. Walter perfects the antidote and successfully turns Sterling human again. Reaching Killian's hideout, Sterling is concerned about Walter's safety and sends him away in the submarine. Once inside, Sterling confronts Killian, but is knocked out and captured as Killian reveals he has mass-produced hundreds of drones to target everyone at the agency using the database as revenge for killing his crew in a past mission led by Sterling. Noticing Walter returning in the submarine, Killian destroys it; unbeknownst to them, Walter survives with the help of one of his inventions, the inflatable hug.

Once Walter frees Sterling, the two escape and contacts Marcy for support as the drones approach H.T.U.V. headquarters in Washington, D.C. Walter attempts to hack into Killian's bionic arm but when Killian realizes this, he tries to flee via air with a drone, but Walter catches up.  Walter risks his life by trapping Killian in the inflatable hug and deactivates the villain's arm as Walter himself falls, but Sterling, who has turned himself back into a pigeon, successfully flies for the first time and carries him to safety with help from other pigeons, while Killian is found and arrested.

Despite saving the world, Sterling &ndash; back in his human form &ndash; and Walter are fired for disobedience, but the H.T.U.V. rehire them as the agency could learn from Walter's more peaceful ways of handling villainy.

####The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge Out of Water####
A pirate named Burger Beard travels to Bikini Atoll, where he obtains a magical book that has the power to make any text written upon it real. The book tells the story of SpongeBob SquarePants and his adventures in the underwater city of Bikini Bottom. SpongeBob works for Mr. Krabs at the Krusty Krab fast food restaurant, where he cooks Krabby Patties. SpongeBob has spent several years protecting the secret formula of the Krabby Patty from Plankton, the owner of the rival Chum Bucket.

One day, Plankton attacks the Krusty Krab in an attempt to steal the formula. After a battle involving giant foods and condiments, Plankton feigns surrender and uses a decoy of himself to gain access to Krabs' vault. Plankton steals the formula, leaving a fake document in its place. SpongeBob catches Plankton and they fight over the formula, which abruptly disappears.

Without the secret formula, Krabby Patties cannot be made and the customers become ravenous. Although Mr. Krabs believes Plankton is responsible, SpongeBob knows Plankton is innocent; The two escape Krabs by flying away in a soap bubble. Bikini Bottom is subsequently reduced to a wasteland due to the absence of the Krabby Patties. After a struggle between Burger Beard and some seagulls, a page of the book is discarded in the ocean and lands on Sandy Cheeks' tree dome. SpongeBob proposes teaming up with Plankton to find the formula, and the two decide to travel back in time to the moment before the formula disappeared. SpongeBob and Plankton assemble the machine and travel far into the future, where they meet Bubbles, a magical bottlenose dolphin who acts as an overseer of the galaxy, and inadvertently get him fired. After escaping a furious Bubbles, SpongeBob and Plankton retrieve the formula from the past, but upon returning their time, they discover that it is the fake one previously left by Plankton.

A deranged Sandy suggests sacrificing SpongeBob to appease the "sandwich gods" for Krabby Patties. As the town attempts to do so, the latter alerts the crowd that he smells Krabby Patties, which Mr. Krabs also smells. The townsfolk follow the scent, which leads to the surface. Bubbles returns, telling SpongeBob that he hated his job and is grateful that he was fired. He repays SpongeBob by granting him and his friends the ability to breathe on land in order to follow the smell.

The team, now animated in CGI, lands on a beach and discovers that the smell leads to Burger Beard's ship, which he has converted into a food truck. Burger Beard is revealed to have stolen the formula using the magical book. He then uses the book to banish the group to an island full of pelicans. SpongeBob uses the page Sandy had to transform himself and the others into superheroes. They return and find Burger Beard, who drives away with the formula, and give chase. During the ensuing battle, the team destroys the book, but Burger Beard manages to overpower them.

Plankton appears as a muscle-bound hero and attacks Burger Beard. With SpongeBob’s help, the two reclaim the formula and send Burger Beard flying back to Bikini Atoll. The gang uses the final page's magic to return to Bikini Bottom. With the Krabby Patties back, the city is returned to normal and Plankton resumes his role as business rival.

####Strange World####
In Avalonia, a land surrounded by an endless wall of mountains, Jaeger Clade and his fifteen-year-old son Searcher are adventurers who brave the wilderness to explore new worlds. While trying to traverse the mountains, Searcher discovers a green plant that gives off energy. Searcher and the rest of the expedition team decide to return to Avalonia with the plant while Jaeger angrily continues his mission alone. Twenty-five years later, a now forty-year-old Searcher has made a name for himself by introducing the miracle plant, dubbed Pando, as a fuel source for Avalonia. He and his wife Meridian are Pando farmers, while their son, Ethan, has a crush on his friend Diazo and chafes at his father's expectation that he will become a farmer as well.

One night, Callisto Mal, the president of Avalonia and one of Jaeger's former expedition teammates, shows up in her airship, the "Venture", informs the Clades that Pando is losing its power and asks Searcher to help find the cause. He joins an expedition to travel into a giant sinkhole, in which the roots of Pando have been located. Meridian chases after them in her crop-duster to find Ethan, who stows away on the "Venture" with their dog, Legend, but when the crop-duster is destroyed in an attack by red wyvern-like creatures, she joins the expedition as well.

The "Venture" crash-lands in a subterranean world, and Searcher and Legend are separated from the group. They are attacked by a creature called a "Reaper", but are rescued by Jaeger, who has been living underground all these years. He has been trying to cross the mountains from below, but is blocked by an acidic ocean, and states his intention to board the "Venture" to attempt to cross it. Meanwhile, Ethan sneaks away from the "Venture" to find his father. He befriends an amorphous blue creature, naming it Splat, before being reunited with Searcher, Legend and Jaeger. They are attacked by more Reapers, but are rescued by Meridian and Callisto and return to the "Venture".

Searcher insists on completing their mission, while Jaeger wants to continue journeying across the Strange World. Ethan becomes frustrated with them and their opposing worldviews. After another wild encounter, Searcher and Jaeger finally have a heart-to-heart talk and realize that they do respect each other's goals in life. Eventually they find a cluster of Pando's roots, which is being attacked by the Strange World's creatures.

When Searcher learns that Ethan wants to explore more of the Strange World, he blames Jaeger's influence on him. Frustrated with Searcher, Ethan jumps off the "Venture" and on to one of the Reapers. Searcher follows him aboard a small flying vehicle, but as they are reconciling, they realize that they have passed through the mountains to the ocean beyond, where they see the eye of a giant turtle-like creature. The two realize that Avalonia is on the creature's back, and that they have been traveling through its body, meaning that the Reapers and all the other creatures are its immune system. Seeing that Pando is an infection attacking the creature’s heart, they head back to inform the expedition team that Pando must be destroyed, but Callisto has them locked up to prevent them from stopping the mission, while Jaeger furiously sails off to see for himself. After Legend and Splat free the family, Searcher and Ethan head to the creature's heart to clear a path for the Reapers, while Meridian takes over the ship and convinces Callisto to help. Jaeger returns, and with his help, they break through Pando, and the creatures appear and destroy it, bringing the heart back to life and saving the land.

One year later, Ethan is in a relationship with Diazo as they and their friends collect resources from the Strange World; Avalonia has shifted from Pando energy to wind turbines; Jaeger revisits his ex-wife Penelope, who has remarried during his absence; and Searcher and Jaeger's relationship has improved.

####Teen Titans: Trouble in Tokyo####
The Teen Titans's hometown, Jump City, is attacked by a Japanese ninja called Saico-Tek. They capture him and discover Saico-Tek was sent by a man called "Brushogun" before he mysteriously vanishes after triggering the tower's fire sprinklers. Subsequently, the Titans head to Tokyo, Japan, to search for his master. Upon arriving there, after overcoming the language barrier and fighting a Gorgo-like giant reptile, the Titans meet Tokyo's own supernatural defense force—the Tokyo Troopers—led by Commander Uehara Daizo. When questioned on Brushogun, Daizo claims that Brushogun is nothing more than an urban legend. Left with no villains to pursue, the Titans decide to enjoy Tokyo.

Robin and Starfire express their feelings for each other until Robin starts to focus on Brushogun again and declares they cannot be anything more than heroes, upsetting Starfire. Investigating alone, Robin is attacked by Saico-Tek and ends up pummeling the ninja into the ground. When Saico-Tek does not rise, Robin is apprehended by Daizo for killing him. Elsewhere, Starfire is approached and comforted by a little girl, which helps to overcome her depression and makes her realize that despite Robin's earlier objections, their romantic feelings for each other are indeed truly mutual.

Just then, the Mayor of Tokyo announces Robin's arrest and orders that the other Teen Titans must either turn themselves in or leave Tokyo. Starfire calls the other Titans, but as they attempt to regroup, Brushogun sends out his minions to destroy the Titans. Meanwhile, as Robin is being transferred to a more secure facility, a slip of paper bearing the name "Brushogun" fits into the armored car carrying him and explodes, freeing him. Robin co-opts the identity of a Shinjuku mugger to collect information that Brushogun is in fact real. He is eventually found by the Tokyo Troopers, which leads to a car chase. Robin is surrounded when Starfire comes to his rescue and takes him to a shrine (where they attempt to kiss again until they are suddenly interrupted by Cyborg, Raven, and Beast Boy's arrival). There, Raven relates from a book she found that Brushogun was an artist who dreamed of bringing his beloved drawings to life using dark magic. The spell ultimately turned against the young artist, and he was transformed into Brushogun, a being of paper and ink capable to bring any creation he could imagine to life, until he suddenly disappeared. Robin realizes that he did not kill Saico-Tek because he was an ink-made creature, and he was set up to make him look like a criminal.

The Titans track Brushogun to a comic book publishing factory, where they discover Brushogun trap-wired into a cursed printing press that taps into his powers to create the enemies the Titans have faced. He reveals that he had sent the first Saico-Tek to the Titans to summon them to Tokyo, in order to stop the real culprit who had enslaved him. The said culprit is revealed to be Daizo, who used Brushogun's power to create both his Tokyo Troopers and the monsters that they captured in order to gain a reputation as a hero.

Daizo drops in on the Titans and forces Brushogun to create an army of animated ink minions. A mass battle ensues, culminating in Robin facing Daizo. With no options of escape left, Daizo jumps into the ink reservoir of the press, taking control of Brushogun's magic and transforming himself into a hulking mass of ink and machinery, with Brushogun at the center. As the other Titans battle the creatures Daizo hurls at them, Robin frees Brushogun, causing Daizo to lose control of his power and burst. Brushogun dies peacefully in Robin's arms, dissipating his powers and defeating Daizo. With the battle concluded, Robin and Starfire finally confess their feelings and share their first true kiss.

Later on, with Robin's name cleared and Daizo sent to prison, the Titans are awarded medals of honour by the mayor and Tokyo's citizens for their heroic actions. Robin and Starfire are holding hands, confirming they’ve become an official couple. Beast Boy asks Robin if they have to go home, but Robin allows the Titans to stay in Tokyo a little longer to enjoy a well-earned vacation. Beast Boy says that he wants to go to Mexico for their next vacation, causing Raven to slap him.

As the end credits roll, the Titans sing a literally translated version of their Japanese theme song in celebration for the defeat of Daizo and their award ceremony.

####Tom and Jerry: The Fast and the Furry####
Tom and Jerry are evicted from their house by Tom's owner after they destroy it during one of their usual chases. Upon seeing an ad for a race/reality show titled the "Fabulous Super Race" (with the grand prize of a luxurious mansion for the winner), Tom and Jerry build their customized vehicles from a nearby junkyard before heading to "Globwobbler Studios" in Hollywood, California, to enter themselves in the race.

The other racers include elderly Grammy and her ferocious pet dog Squirty; dark lord and florist Gorthan the Destroyer of Light; superstar Steed Dirkly; single mother of four children Malory "Soccer Mom" McDoogle; and scientist Dr. Professor, eliminated before the race after antimatter accidentally vaporizes him and his vehicle, leaving Tom and Jerry room to race.

The race begins in Hollywood, where Grammy takes an early lead, but Steed overtakes her late in the leg. Upon the racers arriving at the finish line in Mexico, the head of Globwobbler Studios, J.W., decides to extend the race to the Amazonian jungle due to high public ratings. During the race through the jungle, Tom switches a sign indicating the road the racers should take, hoping to get Jerry eliminated from the race. However, this instead results in the elimination of Soccer Mom as her minivan sinks into quicksand. She then informs Jerry of which path to take, allowing him to continue racing. Steed wins again, while Grammy follows him in second, but J.W. still wants to continue due to the high ratings. Hosts Biff Buzzard and Buzz Blister announce that the next leg of the race will begin in Antarctica and that the racers will have to modify their vehicles for ocean travel.

On the way to Antarctica, Steed's vehicle sinks, causing his elimination before he falls for a mermaid on a small island, who proceeds to feed him to her ravenous offspring. The first contestant to reach Antarctica is Gorthan, also eliminated after Biff and Buzz goads him into licking a metal pole. He is left adrift along with his vehicle on an iceberg as he struggles to free his tongue. As Tom, Jerry, and Grammy arrive, Grammy is eliminated when a whale accidentally swallows her and Squirty, thanks to Tom's machinations. J.W. then notifies the hosts that the racers will have to modify their vehicles again for underwater travel to Australia. While racing underwater, Tom faces several problems. Seals take over his car, and his fish juice spray attracts sharks, ultimately eliminating him when he crashes into a large concrete block and an anchor crushes him.

Upon arriving in Australia, Jerry then continues racing across Australia to Borneo, where the finish line got reassigned. Grammy and Squirty return to the race when the whale spits them out. Tom also returns after Irving rescues him under J.W.'s orders and saws Australia in half to get in the lead.

The next leg of the race involves the racers modifying their vehicles with balloons for air travel to Borneo. During the leg, Tom inadvertently pops all of Grammy's balloons while attempting to attack Jerry, resulting in Grammy's elimination once again when she and Squirty fall to their deaths upon bickering over what they thought was a parachute. J.W. then announces that the true final leg of the race is back to Hollywood, which will involve them traveling back to the finishing point with high-speed jet planes in only five minutes due to the race taking too long. Tom and Jerry proceed anyway and race through several prominent locations in Asia, Europe, the Atlantic, and the U.S., causing massive yet comedic destruction to numerous monuments. Their jets crumble and shatter near the finish line, with both Tom and Jerry ultimately finishing the race in a tie.

Although they both technically won as they finished the race tied, J.W. claims that, according to the contract, if a tie occurred, a tiebreaker would have to occur through another race. Not wanting to go through the entire ordeal again, Tom and Jerry viciously attack him and seize the mansion's keys before walking away. An angry and disoriented J.W. then declares that Hollywood stands for family entertainment. The pharaoh-like President of Hollywood appears to incinerate J.W. for his inappropriate change of heart, while Irving becomes the new head of Globwobbler Studios. Tom and Jerry share their new mansion peacefully for a brief moment, until Tom's owner shows up and orders Tom to chase Jerry, reigniting their rivalry.

####Kung Fu Panda 2####
The peacock rulers of Gongmen City invented fireworks for peaceful purposes, but their son, Lord Shen, discovered that the gunpowder used in firecrackers could be used as a weapon. Worried by Shen's obsession, his parents consulted a soothsayer, who told them that if he continued too far down this path, he would be stopped by "a warrior of black and white." Shen learned of the prophecy and deduced that the warrior would be a panda, leading his wolf army to massacre the local population. Horrified by the genocide, Shen's parents banished him. Many years later, Shen and his army raid villages for scrap metal, hoping to build cannons which Shen can use to conquer all of China.

Meanwhile, Po is enjoying his new role as a Kung Fu Master alongside the Furious Five, though Master Shifu warns him he has not yet achieved inner peace. When the leader of the wolf army raids another village, Po and the Five intercept him; however, a symbol on his armor gives Po a flashback of his mother. Po questions his father Mr. Ping, and the goose reveals that he found Po as an infant in a shipment of radishes outside his restaurant. When no one came forward to claim the cub, Mr. Ping adopted Po as his son. Po and the Five are dispatched across the sea to Gongmen City next, after learning Shen used a cannon to kill a regent of the city, Master Thundering Rhino. Shen imprisons the other regents, Masters Ox and Croc, and takes over the city. At Gongmen Palace, the city's goat soothsayer meets Shen and continually reminds him of the prophecy.

Upon arrival at Gongmen City, Po and the Five free Masters Ox and Croc, but the duo refuses to help, believing kung fu died with Master Rhino. Po and the Five feign surrender to Shen, with Master Mantis freeing the others from bondage. They destroy one of the cannons, but Po sees the same familiar symbol on Shen's plumage, which distracts him long enough for Shen to escape and destroy Gongmen Palace with his cannonade.

Once they are safe, Tigress demands answers, and Po reveals he has remembered Shen was there the day he last saw his biological parents. Tigress sympathizes, but fears Po's lack of focus will get him killed. The Five leave Po and proceed to Shen's cannon factory with the intent to blow it up. However, Po follows and confronts Shen, inadvertently spoiling the plan and allowing the Five to be captured. Shen lies and says Po's parents hated him, and shoots him with a cannon. Badly wounded but alive, Po floats downriver and is rescued by the soothsayer. She tells him about the panda genocide, and encourages him to embrace his past. Po, finally achieving inner peace, is able to recall that his father went down fighting, while his mother hid him in a radish crate and drew off Shen's army so he could survive.

Rejuvenated, Po returns to Gongmen City, where Shen is sailing downriver with his cannons and army. Po frees the Five, and with the help of Masters Ox, Croc, and Shifu, they are able to wreck the foremost ships and prevent the army from reaching the harbor. Lord Shen fires a cannon, killing some of his own soldiers, to clear the way. Po stands alone against Shen, using his newfound inner peace skills to deflect all the cannonballs shot at him back at the fleet, destroying it. Po offers mercy to Shen, but he rejects it and attacks Po with a spear. Shen accidentally severs the lines holding up one of the cannons, and it falls onto the ship, killing him. Po is congratulated by Shifu and the Five; returning to the Valley, Po reaffirms his identity as Mr. Ping's son, and his love for his adopted father. Meanwhile, at a secret panda village in the mountains, Po's biological father Li Shan is revealed to still be living, and senses his son is still alive. As depicted in the 2016 film "Kung Fu Panda 3".

####Kung Fu Panda 3####
In the Spirit Realm, Grand Master Oogway fights against General Kai, a spirit warrior yak who has defeated all the other dead kung fu masters and stolen their "chi". Oogway has his own "chi" stolen, but not before he warns Kai that someone is destined to stop him. Kai uses the "chi" he stole to return to the Mortal Realm.

Meanwhile, Master Shifu announces his retirement from teaching, and names Po as his successor. Po's first attempts to teach inadvertently injure the Furious Five, and Shifu advises Po should try to be more like himself and less like Shifu. Disheartened, Po returns home, where he meets Li Shan, a panda that both quickly realize is Po's biological father, who came to find Po after receiving a sign from the universe that his son was alive. The two immediately bond, much to the dismay and jealousy of Po's adoptive father Mr. Ping.

After introducing Li to Shifu and the Five, Po joins the Five to defend the Valley of Peace from Kai's jade zombies, the remains of the kung fu masters that had their "chi" stolen. Through research, the group learns that Kai and Oogway were once friends, and that Kai saved a wounded Oogway's life by taking him to a secret panda village to be healed. The pandas taught Oogway to give healing "chi", but Kai learned to take "chi" from others for his own personal power, forcing Oogway to banish him to the Spirit Realm. Li offers to take Po to the village to learn "chi" and defeat Kai, while Shifu and the Five prepare to protect the Valley. Mr. Ping stows away, hoping to drive a wedge between Po and Li, but is soon discovered. Upon arriving at the village, Li refuses to teach Po "chi" until he has learned to live the relaxed lifestyle of a panda.

Kai, hoping to erase Oogway's legacy, steals the "chi" of every living kung fu master and destroys the Jade Palace. Only Master Tigress escapes, tracking down Po and telling him what happened. When Po demands that Li teach him how to use "chi" immediately,  Li confesses that he lied about knowing "chi" out of fear of losing his son again. Hurt by his father's misdirection, Po disowns Li and trains alone to defeat Kai, while a repentant Mr. Ping sympathizes with Li and assures that Po will forgive him.

After an argument with Tigress, Po admits he cannot defeat Kai alone. Li, Mr. Ping and the pandas ask Po to teach them kung fu. Realizing what previously made him fail as a teacher, Po trains them to not imitate his kung fu but instead to use their everyday activities as kung fu skills. Between training, Po and Li reconcile, and both prepare for Kai's attack.

Kai arrives with his jade zombies and attacks the village. Po's students fight them, distracting Kai long enough for Po to use the Wuxi Finger Hold technique to banish Kai to the Spirit Realm. Kai, a spirit warrior, reveals that the technique only works on mortals and savagely attacks Po. To save the others, Po grabs Kai and uses the Wuxi Finger Hold on himself, banishing them both to the Spirit Realm. Infuriated, Kai binds Po and begins to steal his "chi". In the mortal realm, Li, recognizing that finding one's true self is the key to unlocking "chi", leads the others in giving their "chi" to Po. Rejuvenated, Po uses his now-augmented "chi" to destroy Kai.

With Kai gone, the kung fu masters have their "chi" restored. In the Spirit Realm, Oogway reveals that he sent Li a cosmic message explaining where to find Po. Oogway also reveals why he chose Po as the Dragon Warrior—as a panda, Po had the potential to become a master of both kung fu and "chi." Oogway names Po his successor as Grand Master, and gives Po his mystic staff, which Po uses to return to the Mortal Realm. After reuniting with the others, Po takes on his new role at the restored Jade Palace, where all the pandas and the residents of the Valley of Peace learn kung fu and "chi".

####Anchors Aweigh####
Gunner's Mate Second Class Joe Brady and Seaman First Class Clarence Doolittle are USN sailors who have a four-day leave in Hollywood. Joe has his heart set on spending time with his girl (the never seen) Lola. Clarence, the shy choir boy turned sailor, asks Joe to teach him how to get girls. Donald, a little boy who wants to join the navy, is found wandering around the boulevard by a cop, who takes him to the police station. Clarence and Joe end up being picked up by the cops to help convince Donald to go home. After the two sailors wait at home and entertain Donald, Donald's Aunt Susie arrives. Clarence is smitten with her from the beginning. Susan goes on to tell them that she has been trying to find work in music, and longs to perform with José Iturbi. Trying to make Susan impressed with Clarence, Joe tells her that Clarence is a personal friend of Iturbi, and that he has arranged an audition for Susan with him. That night, they go out to a café (on an MGM recreation of Olvera Street) where Clarence meets a girl from Brooklyn, and they hit it off. The next day, Joe visits Donald's school, and tells the kids the story of how he got his medal, and how he brought happiness to a young lonesome king (played by Jerry the Mouse in an animated sequence from Tom and Jerry), and joy to the forest animals of the kingdom.

Meanwhile, Clarence has been trying to get into Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios to find Iturbi, with no luck. After many failed attempts to speak to Iturbi (including a rehearsal at the Hollywood Bowl), all hope is lost for Joe and Clarence, who want to come clean with Susan and tell her there was no audition. On Clarence and Joe's last day of leave, Susan runs into Iturbi In the studio commissary, who has no idea of the audition. Susan begins to call Joe, whom by now she has fallen in love with, to yell at him. Iturbi stops her and agrees to get her a screen test, which turns out to be very successful. The movie ends as Iturbi conducts the choir in singing "Anchors Aweigh", while Joe and Susan, and Clarence and the "Girl from Brooklyn," kiss.

####Tom and Jerry: Blast Off to Mars####
Tom chases Jerry as usual from their house and across town until they arrive at the "International Space Place", where astronauts Buzz Blister and Biff Buzzard are heading to Mars. In the process, Tom and Jerry are caught during the speech (first misunderstood as aliens due to Tom getting hit by green paint backstage) and the staff try to capture them, but only Tom is caught and thrown out. During the testing of dehydrated food, Jerry knocks over a cup in the process, resulting in the food going all over the place in an explosion. Soon, the staff tries to catch Jerry, but figuring that only Tom can catch him, they bring him back to the base and give him a mission to eliminate Jerry. During the chase, the duo land onto a rocket, ending up at Mars, where Tom and Jerry are left behind. A green female alien named Peep along with an alien dog Ubu and two more martians arrive, to which Jerry is then taken to the martians' lair where he is mistaken for the “Great Gloop”. After much calamity and a discovery that Jerry is not the Great Gloop, Tom, Jerry and Peep hijack a flying saucer (UFO) so that they can get back to Earth and warn everyone about a potential attack by the martians. They manage to stop them, but a gigantic orange vacuum cleaner robot named the “Invince-a-tron” eventually arrives at Earth and begins to suck everyone up with its vacuum. Tom, Jerry and Peep ultimately foil the Invince-a-tron by using a bone to get a Spike into his brain and make it malfunction, destroying it.

In the aftermath, Tom and Jerry are rewarded with a Hummer by the U.S. President (also voiced by Jeff Bennett) for saving Earth from being destroyed by the Invince-a-tron. Before they could even drive it, however, they are attacked once again by a newly repaired Invince-a-tron controlled by Spike, who vows revenge on them for the destruction of his bone. Peep flies back to Earth with the flying saucer and rescues Jerry, but leaves Tom behind to be chased by the Spike-controlled Invince-a-tron. In the epilogue, Biff and Buzz are cleaning the mess as punishment for lying that there is no life on Mars; they soon start to argue and fight about it as a horrified Tom is still being pursued by the Spike-controlled Invince-a-tron into the sunset.

####Tom and Jerry: Santa's Little Helpers####
Jerry and Tuffy are living the good life in Santa's workshop up until the unfortunate day on which Tom is rescued by the Claus family. With Tom in the house, merry mayhem ensues at the North Pole, but when the dust settles, the destructive duo now has to work together to save Christmas and learn the true meaning of friendship.

