####3 Godfathers####
Three rustlers—Bob Hightower (John Wayne), Pete (Pedro Armendáriz) and The Abilene Kid (Harry Carey Jr.)—ride into Welcome, Arizona. They have a friendly conversation with Sheriff Buck Sweet (Ward Bond) and his wife (Mae Marsh), who asks if they have seen her niece and her husband on the trail. The three subsequently rob the local bank, but the loot is lost when Kid is shot and his horse falls. They flee into the desert on two horses, pursued by Sweet and his men in a buckboard. Sweet shoots a hole in their water bag and then turns back to the depot.

The fugitives come within sight of the railroad's water tank, only to see Sweet station a guard. Doubling back to Terrapin Tanks, a granite sump at the edge of the desert, the robbers lose their horses in a sandstorm. Desperate for water, they find the tanks dynamited by a tenderfoot, who disappeared chasing his thirsting horses. In a covered wagon nearby lies the man's wife—Sweet's niece-in-law (Mildred Natwick)—who is in labor. While Pete helps with the delivery, the other two laboriously collect water from nearby cacti. Many hours later, the woman has a boy, whom she names "Robert William Pedro Hightower" after her benefactors. Before dying, she exacts a promise from them to save him and be his godfathers.

Moved, the three desperadoes keep their vow. They find a chest filled with baby things, condensed milk, an advice book, and a Bible. Pete offers Bob the Bible for guidance, but Bob slaps it aside. Kid, certain that a higher power guided them there, compares the baby to the infant Jesus in the manger and themselves as the Three Wise Men. Inspired by a Bible verse, they head for the town of New Jerusalem, across the desert and over a mountain. The posse later comes upon the abandoned wagon, and recognizing the possessions of his niece-in-law, Sweet believes that the fugitives killed her and sets out for revenge.

When they cross a salt flat, Kid collapses and dies. Once past the flat, Pete trips, breaking his leg. He asks Bob to leave him his pistol, "for coyotes"; as Bob walks toward the mountain, he hears a single gunshot. Staggering through a ravine, Bob finally falls, but in his delirium the ghosts of his two friends refuse to let him give up. Finding a donkey and her colt at the end of the ravine, he uses them to reach New Jerusalem, where he stumbles into a cantina to get drinks for himself and the baby. Just as Sheriff Sweet catches up with him, Bob collapses from exhaustion.

Bob is jailed in Welcome, but with his heroic rescue of the baby, the entire town has become sympathetic towards him. Bob gives his godchild into the temporary custody of the Sweets, now his friends, but when the judge (Guy Kibbee) asks him to give up custody permanently in exchange for a suspended sentence, he refuses to break his promise to the baby's mother. Pleased, the judge gives him the minimum sentence of a year and a day; and as he leaves for prison, all the townspeople give Bob a rousing farewell.

####3:10 to Yuma####
In the Arizona Territory of the 1880s, struggling rancher Dan Evans and his two sons witness a gang led by notorious outlaw Ben Wade rob a stagecoach. When the stagecoach driver manages to overpower one of the robbers, Wade calmly shoots both men dead. On the way to Mexico, the robbers stop at a saloon in Bisbee for drinks. Wade alerts the town marshal of the robbery and the murders. A posse is assembled and Wade instructs his men to ride across the border to safety until he can rejoin them, while the posse heads back toward the stage. The posse meets up with Dan and the stagecoach company's owner, Mr. Butterfield, who accompany the lawmen as they head to the saloon. Charlie Prince, Wade's second in charge, returns to Bisbee to see what is holding up Wade just before the posse arrives back in town. Evans distracts Wade, allowing the marshal to come up behind Wade and arrest him. Prince is shot in the hand, but escapes on his horse to retrieve the rest of the gang.

The marshal requests two volunteers to escort Wade to Contention City to catch a train, the 3:10 to Yuma, where he can be held for trial. Butterfield offers to pay any volunteer $200, and Dan and a drunkard posse member named Alex Potter volunteer their services. The marshal has a man pretending to be Wade placed on a stagecoach leaving town that evening, hoping to mislead Wade's men and buy Dan and Potter some time. Wade is taken to Dan's ranch, where Alice Evans, his wife, learns of her husband's decision. Wade is subsequently moved to Contention City, where Dan and Potter meet Butterfield in a hotel room to wait for the train. Wade tries to bribe Dan into letting him go; Dan's refusal to do so impresses the outlaw.

The slain stagecoach driver's brother, Bob Moons, arrives and barges into the hotel room seeking revenge. Dan wrestles his gun away, but it goes off. Prince, having secretly tracked the party to Contention, hears the gunshot and alerts Wade's gang. The local sheriff is out of town, so Butterfield hires five local men to provide security while Wade is taken to the rail station. As the gang surrounds the hotel the locals run off, once again leaving only Dan, Alex, and Butterfield. Alex saves Dan from getting shot by an outlaw on the roof, but Prince shoots Alex in the back and has the men hang him from the hotel chandelier. Butterfield is horrified and offers to give Dan his money, planning to release Wade. Alice arrives and tries to change her husband's mind, but he is committed to see Wade brought to justice. Dan takes Wade out a back door, skillfully moving him across town as the outlaws fire at them.

The outlaws finally catch up to Dan as the train starts to leave. Prince shouts for Wade to drop down so he can shoot Dan. Instead, Wade tells Dan to jump into the passing car, and they leap to safety together. The gang runs after the train, but Dan shoots Prince dead and the rest give up pursuit. Wade explains that he owed Dan a favor for saving his life earlier, and he claims that he has broken out of the Yuma jail before, meaning Dan will be able to claim his reward honestly. Alice sees Dan leave safely on the train as rain pours down on her, breaking the long drought.

####3:10 to Yuma####
In 1884 Arizona, Dan Evans is a poor rancher and Civil War veteran who owes money to the wealthy Glen Hollander. One night, Hollander's men burn down his barn and scatter his cattle as a  warning to pay his debts. The next morning Evans and his two sons are searching for their lost herd when they stumble upon Ben Wade and his gang robbing an armored stagecoach staffed by Pinkertons.  Wade sees Evans and his two sons watching from the hills and decides that they aren't a threat to his gang, so Wade takes their horses, promising to leave  them tied up "on the road to Bisbee", so that Evans can recover them, but won't be able to give warning immediately. After Wade's gang departs, Evans rescues the lone surviving coach guard, Byron McElroy, left alive but severely wounded.

Wade and his gang ride to Bisbee to drink at the local saloon and divide up the loot.  The gang departs but Wade chooses to stay behind to enjoy the company of the barmaid. Evans brings McElroy to veterinarian/lawman Doc Potter, then tries in vain to negotiate his debt with Hollander.  Evans then finds Wade emerging from an upstairs room in the saloon and coaxes a few dollars from Wade over the trouble he caused Evans.  As the two talk, lawmen surround the saloon and arrest Wade.

Grayson Butterfield, the railroad's representative, hires a posse consisting of McElroy, Potter, Tucker (one of Hollander's men), and Evans to take Wade to Contention, where Wade is to be put on the 3:10 afternoon train to Yuma Territorial Prison. Evans asks for $200 (Inflation|US|200|1880|r=-2|fmt=eq) to deliver Wade, which Butterfield agrees to. The group meets at Evans's ranch, where McElroy arranges for a decoy wagon to distract Wade's gang.

During the journey, both Tucker and McElroy provoke Wade; he stabs Tucker to death with a stolen fork and throws McElroy off a cliff. Wade attempts to escape but is stopped when Evans's son William appears.  The group is ambushed by Apaches, allowing Wade to use the confusion to flee into a Chinese laborer construction camp.  The foreman of the camp captures Wade and the posse arrives to collect him, but the foreman, holding an old grudge against the outlaw, wants to kill Wade.  A gunfight breaks out between the two groups, killing Potter while the rest escape with Wade.  They arrive in Contention hours before the train's departure time and check into a hotel, where several local marshals join them.

Wade's gang members ambush the decoy wagon and kill everyone after finding out that Wade is in Contention.  The gang, now led by Charlie Prince,  offers a $200 cash reward to anyone who kills one of Wade's captors. Numerous men volunteer, causing the town's marshals to desert immediately; Wade's men kill them when they try to surrender. Butterfield resigns as well, but agrees to keep William safe at Evans's behest. Evans agrees to put Wade on the prison train if Butterfield pays him $1000, escorts his son safely home, grants his farm access to river water, and gets Hollander to leave his family alone.

Evans escorts Wade out of the hotel, and the two make their way across town, evading continuous gunfire from the gang and the townsmen. Wade surprises Evans and nearly strangles him, but relents when Evans reveals that delivering Wade to the train is not only for his family but his honor as well. Wade then admits he has already been to Yuma Prison and escaped twice, and agrees to board the train, allowing Evans's contract to be fulfilled and redeeming Evans to his sons.

Wade helps Evans evade his gang and finally boards the train, congratulating Evans on his efforts. Charlie appears and shoots Evans despite Wade's order to stop. Wade steps off the train, comforting Evans in his final moments. When Charlie returns Wade's gun belt, he abruptly executes Charlie along with the rest of his gang. William appears and draws his gun on Wade but does not kill him, instead turning to his dying father. Wade boards the train and politely surrenders his weapon. Evans dies as William tells him he accomplished his mission and got the money. Butterfield watches the train depart with Wade on it. As the train disappears around a bend, Wade whistles, and his faithful horse pricks up his ears and gallops after the train, indicating that Wade is already planning his next escape.

####5 Card Stud####
In 1880, a gambler in the small town of Rincon, 100 miles from Denver, Colorado, is caught cheating at a five-card stud poker game. The players, led by the volatile Nick Evers, take the cheating gambler to lynch him. One of the players, Van Morgan, tries to prevent the others from administering frontier justice, but is unable to stop the killing. Morgan leaves town, but later returns when he hears that several of the other players from the poker game have become victims of grisly murders.

The town has a new resident, a stern and somewhat edgy Colt .45-carrying Baptist preacher named Reverend Rudd. As more members of the lynch mob are killed off one by one, it becomes clear that someone is taking revenge, and it is up to Morgan to solve the mystery. When Morgan is the last man from the poker game left alive, he realizes that Rudd is the murderer, and he kills Rudd in a shootout.

####7th Cavalry####
Captain Tom Benson has been granted a furlough to bring his bride–to–be Martha back to Fort Abraham Lincoln and his Regiment, the 7th Cavalry. Benson is mystified when he sees the fort apparently deserted with the colors not flying. Exploring the vacant post he is met by the hysterical Charlotte Reynolds, whose husband replaced Benson as commander of his "C" Company and was killed at the Battle of the Little Big Horn. Only a small group of misfits and guardhouse prisoners led by an old sergeant remain, and have held a wake by drinking themselves into oblivion.

Once the commands of Major Marcus Reno and Captain Frederick Benteen have returned, they and the widows hold Benson in contempt, not only for not being at the battle in command of his men, but for what they perceived as George Custer's liking for him, Benson's non–West Point background, and his career as a gambler until commissioned into the Regiment.

Martha's father Colonel Kellogg comes to the post to conduct a Board of Inquiry into Custer's actions that Benson sees as a smear against a man he admires who cannot defend himself.

When the President of the United States orders the recovery of the slain officers and the burial of the cavalrymen who fell in the battle, Benson takes his misfits and military prisoners into Indian territory to perform the task.

The Indians have made the land sacred ground and do not want to see the enemies they respected taken away from their burial site. A standoff develops as the cavalry insist on leaving the battleground with the dead officers' bodies. As the situation becomes tense a cavalryman is shot dead with an arrow whilst trying to escape. Then Custer's second horse (Dandy) appears – having been ridden out by a messenger who is unhorsed by an Indian scout away from the action – and is mistaken for Custer's dead horse (Vic) by the Indians. The bugler blows the call to charge and the horse gallops towards the cavalry's position. The Indians believe that Custer's spirit has returned and allow the cavalry to leave the field. Back at the camp, Captain Benson is reconciled with his father–in–law, and salutes as a 35–star American flag is lowered.

####20 Mule Team####
In 1892 Death Valley, California, dwindling borax deposits have the Desert Borax Company at the brink of bankruptcy.  The company is unable to pay its transport drivers, the 20 mule teams that haul the borax across the desert.  Skinner Bill is one of the mule team drivers.  Without pay, he's unable to pay his rent.  Josie Johnson, owner of the Furnace Flat saloon, puts Bill out.

Stag Roper arrives in town and persuades the bank to extend the borax company's credit, hoping to discover more borax.  Stag learns that Bill has found borax crystals from Chuckwalla, who died in the desert.  Stag knows Bill is wanted for murder and blackmails him to help get Chuckwalla's claim.  Bill agrees, and the next day sets out with Pete to locate the claim.  Chuckwalla's partner was Mitch, and a shootout ensues as he tries to protect his claim.

Josie's daughter Jean plans to elope with Stag, but Josie locks her in her room and confronts Stag.  He shoots Josie, after which he and his partner, Salters, ride off to steal Mitch's claim.

Bill and Pete head after Stag, and find Mitch unconscious in the desert.  Following a shootout with Stag, Bill puts Mitch on his mule  and sends him back to town.

Mitch marries Josie, and they move to Los Angeles.

####40 Guns to Apache Pass####
In the Arizona Territory of 1868, the Apaches, led by Cochise (Michael Keep), are on the warpath. Army Captain Bruce Coburn (Audie Murphy) is tasked with escorting homesteaders to Apache Wells where they can concentrate their defense against the Apaches. But there is dissension in the ranks as some of the men under Coburn’s command feel they are being driven too hard. Coburn has to discipline corporal Bodine (Kenneth Tobey) for stealing rationed water. In an attack at Apache Wells, one of the homesteaders, Harry Malone (Kenneth MacDonald), is killed. His two sons, Mike (Michael Blodgett, the eldest) and the younger and more timid Doug (Michael Burns), then join the Army.

In order to defend themselves at Apache Wells, they need guns. Coburn is sent to bring in a consignment of repeating rifles that is on its way, or at least prevent them from getting into the hands of the Apaches. En route, Coburn and his men are attacked. The inexperienced Malone brothers are left to guard the horses, but Mike disobeys orders and goes off to fight the Indians. He is last seen alive pleading for his younger brother's help, but Doug, never having experienced combat and badly frightened by the Apaches, is too afraid to come to his older brother's rescue. When the other soldiers discover Doug hiding behind some rocks and sobbing, he is scorned as a coward. His shame is complete when he subsequently overhears the disgusted Capt. Coburn say he has no use for "a worthless yellow kid".

The survivors of the patrol manage to rendezvous with the consignment of guns. On the way back to Apache Wells, Bodine and four other soldiers decide to take the guns and desert to Mexico, leaving Coburn and the wounded First Sergeant Walker (Robert Brubaker) tied up. After some hesitation, Doug again disappoints Coburn when he throws in his lot with the deserters, after Bodine promises to release the two captives. But Bodine intends to kill them, lighting a fuse on a keg of dynamite in the wagon to which Coburn is tied.

After Coburn frees himself from his bonds seconds before the wagon explodes, he helps the wounded Walker back to Apache Wells. He wants to go back and retrieve the rifles, but the commander, Col. Reed (Byron Morrow), says he cannot spare any men and orders Coburn to stay, threatening him with court-martial for the failure of his mission. Disobeying orders, Coburn sets off alone after Bodine anyway, who is attempting  to sell the stolen rifles to the Apaches for gold. Under a flag of truce, Bodine meets Cochise and agrees to take him to where the rifles are hidden.

Meanwhile, Capt. Coburn finds and single-handedly attacks the deserters guarding the cache of rifles. Doug, still smarting from being branded a coward by Coburn, summons new-found courage and enters the fray, helping Coburn kill the other deserters and recover the rifles. Coburn extends his hand to Doug to show that he now respects the youth as an honorable soldier, before ordering him to get the rifles to Apache Wells.

Cochise and Bodine pursue and catch up with Coburn. In a delaying tactic, Coburn distributes five repeating rifles in positions where he can fight off a number of Apaches. When Doug delivers the rifles to the garrison at Apache Wells and explains to Col. Reed what happened, the commander orders the rifles issued to the soldiers to rescue Coburn, with Doug leading them to the besieged captain's location. The rescue party arrives just as he is almost out of ammunition. After a fierce battle, the Apaches are chased off and Bodine flees alone with Coburn in pursuit. In a final shootout between the two foes, Coburn kills Bodine. Doug accompanies Coburn and the triumphant soldiers back to Apache Wells, where Coburn is welcomed by a grateful Col. Reed, and Doug is reunited with his family who had feared him dead.

####Abilene Town####
In the years following the Civil War, the state of Kansas is increasingly divided by opposing economic and social forces. Homesteaders are moving into the West, trying to start new lives, and their increasing presence is clashing with the established commercial interests of cattlemen, who had settled in the region before the war. Abilene, a major cattle town, is on the brink of armed conflict between the cattlemen and the homesteaders, and the town marshal, Dan Mitchell, strives to keep the peace between those two groups as well maintain the uneasy coexistence between Abilene's townspeople and the ranchers with their legion of cowboys. For years, the town had been literally divided, with the cattlemen and their supporters occupying one side of the main street and townspeople occupying the other side. Mitchell likes it this way; it makes things easier for him, and prevents dangerous confrontations from arising between the two factions. However, when homesteaders decide to lay stakes on the edge of town that existing balance is upset and leads to a deadly showdown.

The leader of the homesteaders is Henry Dreiser, a reasonable young man with common sense. The county sheriff, "Bravo" Trimble, is a lawman who would rather play cards than get involved in any real or potential unrest in Abilene. Mitchell, however, does strive to prevent the upcoming confrontation while also dealing with a clash in his personal life, which is divided as well between Rita, a flashy showgirl who works on the cattle drovers' side of the street, and Sherry, the modest, churchgoing daughter of a shopkeeper on the other side of the street.

####Across the Great Divide####
In 1876, two orphans, Holly and Jason, travel across the Rocky Mountains to claim their inheritance at the end of the Oregon Trail. They run into Zachariah Coop, a gambler on the run from a group of angry men. Coop tries to join the two kids, but at first they don't know whether to trust him. The trio shows unyielding courage in the face of hardship, adventure and danger as they travel across the Great Divide to reach their dream.

####Across the Sierras####
After six years in prison, Mitch Carew returns to Arroyo to seek his revenge on the two men who sent him to prison, shopkeeper Dan Woodworth and Wild Bill Hickok. Carew goads Woodworth into drawing a pistol allowing him to legally kill the elderly Woodworth in self-defence.

Meanwhile, Hickok rescues his ne'er do well friend Larry Armstrong from a lynch mob with the idea that both of them settle down on a ranch. Though Bill finds the love of an Eastern girl, the lure of adventure and the Code of the West lead the pair into trouble, gunplay and vengeance.

####Across the Wide Missouri####
In the 1830s in the Rocky Mountains, fur trapper Flint Mitchell meets at the summer "rendezvous" with other mountain men, cashing in his furs, drinking, and enjoying contests among his friends. He organizes a hunting "brigade" into the beaver-rich Blackfoot territory, buying horses and recruiting trappers, despite protests from his Scottish friend and former trading partner, Brecan, who lives among the Blackfoot and warns him that the land belongs to them. Flint outbids Brecan for Kamiah, the granddaughter of Blackfoot medicine man Bear Ghost and adopted daughter of a Nez Perce chief, Looking Glass. Brecan wants to return her to the Blackfoot, to promote peace between the tribes, while Flint wants to marry Kamiah and ensure the brigade's safety.

Pierre, a French Canadian trapper, and Captain Humberstone Lyon, another Scotsman, who fought in the Battle of Waterloo, join Flint on the dangerous expedition. Kamiah successfully guides Flint and his men on their trek through the high passes filled with crippling snow drifts, and delivers them to the Blackfoot territory, where they build a stockade. Flint narrowly escapes capture and death at the hands of Ironshirt, a young Blackfoot prince and war chief, who kills Baptiste DuNord, one of Flint's best trappers. Ironshirt steals the brigade's horses, but Flint impresses Bear Ghost, who orders them returned.

Though he marries Kamiah for reasons other than love and cannot speak her language, Flint falls in love with her. As Flint and Kamiah grow closer, Flint and Bear Ghost become good friends. Bear Ghost prevents Ironshirt from harming Flint and his men, but catastrophe strikes when Roy DuNord, another of Flint's men, kills Bear Ghost to avenge his brother's death. Although Brecan kills Roy, and Flint sinks into a grieving depression over the death of Bear Ghost, Ironshirt succeeds Bear Ghost as chief and resumes his campaign to drive the white trappers out of his country.

In the spring, Kamiah gives birth to a boy, Chip. On the way to the rendezvous, the brigade is attacked by a large war party under Ironshirt, and Kamiah is killed. With Chip strapped to its back, Kamiah's horse bolts during the attack and is chased by Ironshirt, who is intent on killing the boy. Flint manages to kill Ironshirt, however, and rescue his son. As the years pass, Flint takes Chip to live in the Blackfoot camp, where, Flint believes, Kamiah would have wanted him. Although Flint intends to have the boy formally educated in the East, Chip persuades him year after year to postpone his schooling, and he learns the ways of the mountains from his father.

####Adventures in Silverado####
Silverado is a faraway land where simple folk, reckless cowboys and tough outlaws alike seek to go. But not everyone can get there - the long journey is fraught with many dangers. Only he who manages not to lose heart in a difficult moment, who is only the fastest and bravest can see Silverado.

####The Alamo####
The film begins in March 1836 in the town of San Antonio de Bexar, showing the aftermath of the Battle of the Alamo. The film then flashes back to a year earlier. Sam Houston attends a party where he tries to persuade people to migrate to Texas and encounters David Crockett, recently defeated in his bid for re-election to Congress. In San Felipe, Texas, the Texas provisional government is meeting to discuss what action to take after the capture of the Alamo and Bexar by the Texans in the recent fighting. Texas has rebelled against Mexico, and its dictatorial president Santa Anna is personally leading one wing of his army to retake San Antonio, then invade the settlements and put an end to the rebellion. Various selfish members of the Texan War Party call for the Texas army to depart Bexar, cross into Mexico and capture the town of Matamoros. The more sensible Opposition Party seeks to rebuild the Texan army and establish a permanent government.

The provisional government votes out Sam Houston as commander of the Texas army; a disgusted Houston tells Jim Bowie to go to San Antonio, destroy the fortifications (including the Alamo) and retreat eastward. The Texas government then orders William Barret Travis to Bexar, where Col. Neil, the Alamo's commander, gives Travis command of the post as Neil must leave to take care of a family emergency before returning with reinforcements. Travis, knowing that the Alamo's small force cannot withstand the Mexican Army, sends couriers with pleas for reinforcements. As small groups of Texans arrive, Travis oversees defense preparations, hoping that enough reinforcements will arrive before the inevitable final assault.

Crockett, coming to Texas to revive his political career, arrives in San Antonio, is surprised to learn that the fighting isn't over, and that Santa Anna and his army aren't expected until perhaps mid-March. But after a grueling forced march, Santa Anna unexpectedly arrives on Feb. 23, forcing the Texans to hurriedly retire to the Alamo compound. Despite its vulnerability, the Texans resume fortifying it as best they can. Travis continues to send for reinforcements, but few men arrive.

Santa Anna's troops surround the fort, and the siege begins. Bowie meets with Mexican General Manuel Castrillón to talk things over, but Travis stubbornly fires a cannon at the Mexican camp, abruptly ending their conversation. Bowie returns to tell Travis that Santa Anna has offered the opportunity to surrender, but the defenders decide to stay and fight. With his hopes of an easy victory foiled, Santa Anna settles in for a siege but orders that no quarter be given to the Alamo defenders. Bowie's ongoing illness renders him bedridden, and Travis assumes full command.

On Sunday, March 6, Mexican troops assault the Alamo's walls in a pre-dawn attack. Despite heavy casualties, they breach the walls and most of the Texans, including Travis and Bowie, are slain in the onslaught. Crockett, the last survivor, is taken prisoner, and in a final act of defiance he mockingly offers to safely lead Santa Anna to Sam Houston. Santa Anna angrily orders Crockett to be executed.

Days later, after hearing that the Alamo has fallen, Houston, now in full command of all Texan troops, orders a general retreat eastward. They are pursued by the victorious Mexican Army, led by the confident Santa Anna. In an attempt to catch the retreating Texans, and against the advice of his officers, Santa Anna divides his forces, taking a smaller, fast-moving force with him to chase Houston and the fleeing Texas government. A few weeks later, Houston halts his retreat near the San Jacinto, where he decides to risk all in a sudden attack when he learns of Santa Anna's presence. With the support of two cannons and a group of Juan Seguin's mounted Tejanos, Houston surprises Santa Anna's army during its afternoon siesta, and in the ensuing rout the vengeful Texans massacre at least seven hundred Mexican soldiers and capture Santa Anna. In exchange for his life, Santa Anna agrees to order all Mexican troops to withdraw from Texas and accept Texan independence. The film ends with an eerie replay of Crockett standing atop the Alamo's South wall, playing his fiddle while overlooking the compound.

####Albuquerque####
During a stagecoach holdup, Celia Wallace is robbed of $10,000 and little Myrtle Walton is saved from the runaway horses by a passenger, Cole Armin.

Celia is grateful until she learns Cole is coming to Albuquerque to work for his uncle, John Armin, a ruthless freight-line owner who stops at nothing to put competitors Celia and her brother Ted out of business.

Concluding that his uncle was even behind the robbery, Cole switches sides to work for the Wallaces. Armin uses a woman, Letty Tyler, to spy on his adversaries, but she resents being used when a mine is blown up and Ted is wounded by gunfire.

Cole is framed for arson and jailed. Celia, who loves him, turns against Cole until his acquittal, when Letty explains that John Armin is the man responsible. After an ambush, Cole has to shoot the corrupt sheriff and another gunman, and before the Cavalry finally arrives, John Armin is dealt with as well.

####Alias – the Bad Man####
Clem Neville and fellow rancher Warner are being plagued by a group of rustlers. He sends for his son, Ken, to come help him round up the criminals. However, when Ken arrives he finds out that his father and Warner have been killed. He does not reveal his identity to any of the townspeople, and Warner's daughter, Mary, suspects him of being one of the rustlers. As they verbally spar, Ken learns that Mary had known of a plan of Clem and her father to trap the rustlers. The only person she shared the information with was Rance Collins. He meets up with an old friend Ranger Simpson, known by the nickname of "Repeater", who he lets know what he is attempting to do.

Suspecting that Rance must be involved, Ken learns who some of his associates are. He follows one back to the gang's hideout, and after overhearing of their plans to finish rustling Warner's cattle, steps into the room and asks for a job. Collins is skeptical, but then Repeater shows up and, as set up before by him and Ken, arrests Ken for Clem's murder. Collins suspicions of Ken are alleviated, and he and some of his men ride after the two. They help Ken escape, during which Ken makes it appear as if Repeater has been killed. However, once back at the hideout, suspicions once again begin to arise. Finally, one of the rustlers returns to the hideout and recognizes Ken from Warner's ranch earlier that day. Surrounded by the gang, Ken's horse, Tarzan comes to his rescue and breaks a window allowing him to escape.

Collins henchmen take off after Ken, while Collins remains behind to continue planning their rustling activities. Ken eludes the gang and doubles back to the hideout. He delays Collins long enough for Repeater to arrive with the sheriff to arrest Collins. Afterwards, Mary apologizes to Ken for jumping to conclusions, and Ken decides to stay on in town and run his father's ranch.

####Alias Billy the Kid####
Texas Ranger Sunset Carson is given the mission of tracking down the notorious Marshall gang. Uncovering their hideout, he discovers the gang is led by Ann Marshall and is composed of three of her ranch-hands, Dakota, PeeWee and Buckskin. He soon learns, however, that they are in fact the innocent victims of a ring of swindlers and cattle rustlers led by the ruthless Matt Conroy.

####Along the Great Divide####
Federal marshal Len Merrick (Kirk Douglas) and his two deputies rescue cattle rustler and murder suspect Tim "Pop" Keith (Walter Brennan) from a lynch mob headed by grieving rancher Ned Roden, whose beloved son was shot in the back. Merrick insists on taking Keith to Santa Loma to stand trial.

The other ranchers are unwilling to go against a marshal, but Roden vows to administer his own brand of justice. He sends his other son, Dan, to gather his ranch hands while he attends to the burial. Merrick offers to help, but is met with implacable hostility. After Roden leaves, Merrick finds a pocket watch near the body of the dead son.

Keith suggests they spend the night at his home, as it is nearby. Merrick accepts, but has cause to regret his decision when Keith's daughter Ann ambushes them. Merrick is able to disarm her with no harm done. When they leave, Ann decides to go with them.

After he is warned of Roden's intentions by fellow ranchers, Merrick decides to take an unexpected desert route, where he can see if he is being trailed. The tactic fails, however, and the party is overtaken by Roden and his men. In the ensuing gunfight, Merrick's best friend and deputy, Billy Shear, is wounded. Merrick forces Roden to go away by capturing his son Dan. As they travel on, Billy dies.

Merrick and Ann start falling in love. The marshal reveals his unswerving devotion to duty is because the one time he neglected to do so it cost his father his life. He was a deputy to his marshal father, and refused to help escort two prisoners. All three were lynched. Ann sympathizes, but warns him that her first loyalty is to her father.

Meanwhile, Dan convinces the remaining deputy, Lou Gray, to help him escape by the bribe of a ranch. When the group reaches a waterhole, only to find the water undrinkable, a disagreement breaks out. All but Merrick want to head to a river half a day to the south. Worried because the river is on the Mexican border, Merrick insists on continuing on to Santa Loma. Gray quickly draws his gun, however Merrick is faster on the draw and shoots it out of his hand. Now, he has three prisoners to deal with.

After two days without sleep, an exhausted Merrick drops from his horse. Keith grabs his gun, but is unwilling to shoot. When Gray goes for his rifle, Keith kills him, then hands the gun back to Merrick.

Keith is tried in Santa Loma. Merrick tells the jury he is sure Keith is not a killer, though all the evidence and witnesses are against him where a guilty verdict is reached. Just before Keith is to be hanged, Merrick notices the watch he found on the body of the dead brother has an inscription to Dan. Confronted with the proof he had killed his own brother, Dan draws his revolver and grabs Ann as a shield. When his father approaches, Dan kills him then races back into the barn where a gunfight ensues between him and Merrick, then after a time Dan goes out of the barn from the next level and jumps down onto the back of a horse trying to escape but is shot in the back, just like his brother, by Merrick.

####Along the Navajo Trail####
Deputy U.S. Marshal Roy Rogers poses as a wandering poet, finding and defeating a group of bad guys who, for reasons they keep to themselves, are trying to oust a girl and her father from their ranch. As the plot develops, it is revealed that they want the ranch so they can sell it to a company that wants to run an oil pipeline through a mountain pass at the edge of the property.

Roy comes to the town of Padre Wells, leaving his guns at his squatter's camp on the Ladder-A ranch. He gets into a fistfight with Rusty Channing, a cowboy from the Bridle-Bit ranch who is harassing a gypsy girl and her boyfriend. After defeating Channing, Bridle-Bit owner J. Richard Bentley advises Roy to bring his guns the next time he shows up. Roy returns to the Ladder-A, where he forms a relationship with the owner's daughter Lorrie Alastair, and moves into the bunkhouse. Lorrie's father has been shot in the arm by the bad guys who are after his ranch. A range war ensues, with Roy, the Ladder-A group and the gypsies on one side, and the Bridle-Bit gang and bad guys from the Santa Fe Oil Company on the other. The gypsy girl briefly has a crush on Roy, but his heart belongs to Lorrie. Ultimately there is a showdown at the Bridle-Bit, with the bad guys having the upper hand until the gypsies race in and save the day. Roy and Lorrie openly fall in love and live happily ever after.

####Along the Rio Grande####
A young cowhand and two friends join forces to avenge the murder of their former boss.

Cattle rustler Doc Randall holds a gun on rancher Pop Edwards while three hands, Jeff, Smokey and Whopper, are making a deposit for Pop at the bank. The boys get word Pop needs the money back, but when the banker refuses, they steal it and flee, chased by a posse. They return to find Pop dead. They are arrested, although the sheriff is sure someone else did the killing.

After an arrest and a jailbreak, cantina singer Mary Lawry doesn't care to get involved with Jeff until he confides he's working undercover for the law. Doc is tipped off by saloon girl Paula, who overhears Jeff's conversation with Mary. A trap is set, but Jeff and Doc trade punches until Smokey arrives with the lawmen, just in time.

####Alvarez Kelly####
Mexican cattleman Alvarez Kelly (William Holden) is contracted to deliver a herd to the Union Army in Virginia. As he nears the end of his long cattle drive, Kelly is captured by Confederate raiders led by Colonel Tom Rossiter (Richard Widmark). The Confederacy desperately needs the beef to feed its soldiers besieged in Richmond.

Kelly is "persuaded" to help shanghai and deliver the stolen herd to Richmond. Despite the hatred between the two men, they manage to work together. Kelly first teaches Rossiter's men how to drive cattle. Then, they proceed to capture and drive the herd away, despite the efforts of Union officer Major Albert Stedman (Patrick O'Neal). As revenge, Kelly arranges passage for Rossiter's discontented fiancée, Liz Pickering (Janice Rule), on a blockade runner leaving the besieged city.

####Ambush at Cimarron Pass####
The survivors of a squad of cavalry led by Sergeant Blake (Brady) are escorting a prisoner, Corbin, back to their fort. Corbin had been attempting to sell repeating rifles to the Apache, and the cavalry are now carrying the rifles. They encounter the survivors of a Texas cattle drive, all former Confederate soldiers led by Sam Prescott (Gerstle), who include the young  Keith Williams (Eastwood) who still hates northerners and has to be restrained from shooting Blake. While the two groups are discussing their predicament, the Apache deliver a bound Teresa Santos (Dean), a young woman who is the only survivor of a raid on a nearby ranch. It turns out this was a distraction so the Apache could steal the groups' horses.

Blake and Prescott agree to join forces and continue on foot to the fort, through Cimarron Pass. Judge Stanfield, a survivor in Prescott's party, suggests trading the rifles to the Apache for their horses, but Blake dismisses this on the basis that the rifles are the only means they have of defending themselves against the superior Apache numbers. When Blake ignores Stanfield's threats of criminal charges, Stanfield plots with Keith to overthrow Blake's command.

Several of the group, mostly Blake's men, are killed or wounded in skirmishes or ambushes, including Blake's Indian scout Henry. Johnny Willow takes over scouting duties, while Teresa flirts with Keith. Stanfield encourages Keith, who is annoyed at Blake's leadership and the way Prescott and Johnny are going along with it, to mutiny. Keith's first attempt is interrupted by an Apache attack but, in the aftermath, he challenges Blake, who easily defeats him. After this, Keith largely falls into line and decides to take out his anger on the Apache rather than Blake. During an Apache attack, Stanfield frees Corbin so that he can complete the deal with the Apache, but Corbin betrays and kills him. Corbin then attempts to deliver some of the rifles, but the Apache kill him on sight and Blake's group is able to recover them.

Blake decides to raid the Apache camp and drive off their horses, to remove their advantage. The raid is successful in stampeding the horses, but escalates into a battle in which Johnny Willow and most of the Apache are killed. During the fighting, Blake rescues Teresa from an Apache warrior, and she kisses him. The raid seems to end the direct threat from the Apache but the group is still short of food and water. As they continue towards the fort, Teresa collapses from exhaustion and Blake realises that the rifles are too heavy to carry any further. Rather than let them fall into the hands of the Apache he orders them to be burned. The final shot is of the fort, suggesting that the group reached safety.

####American Outlaws####
Confederate guerillas attempt to raid the Union Army late in the American Civil War. The guerillas are ambushed, but thanks to the sharp-shooting of Frank James and the distractions of his brother Jesse they survive. The James, along with their buddies, the Younger brothers, congratulate themselves but learn that the Confederacy has pulled out of the war and it is over. The group decides to return to Missouri to their families and farms.

When they arrive, their town is occupied by the Union Army. Jesse's childhood friend Zee has grown into an attractive young woman, and there is a man hanging in the town square. Farmers are being pressured to sell their farms to the railroad company, who are pushing across the United States. If they don't sell their land to Thaddeus Rains, and his secret-service organizer, Allan Pinkerton, the farmers are burned out of their homes, or killed.

Frank finds the railroad doesn't even need their land. The James and Younger brothers don't want to sell, and Cole Younger loses his temper when several railroad men approach him about selling and kills two of them. The army decides to hang him, but his brothers Bob and Jim, along with Jesse, Frank, and Zee, decide to rescue him. During the rescue, Jesse is shot in the shoulder, and hides out at Zee's.

A few weeks later, when Jesse has recovered, the railroad sets fire to the James' home, killing Jesse's mother. The James and Younger brothers ride out for revenge against the railroad men but instead focus on the bank's payroll, reasoning that if they steal the money and attack supply trains, the army will notice. Dubbing themselves the James–Younger Gang, they set out robbing banks, with Pinkerton and Rains struggling to stop them. The James gang turns themselves into folk heroes in the process.

The gang struggles over leadership, with Cole feeling that Jesse is getting an overblown ego from the publicity of the gang's activities. Jesse backs down, after an argument, and lets Cole plan and execute a robbery; Cole's chosen target proves to be a trap set by Pinkerton and Rains. Jim is shot and killed, and Jesse and his brother leave the gang, with Jesse later marrying Zee.

The gang does not do well without the James'. People do not respect the Younger brothers as much as they did the James-Younger Gang. When Jesse and Zee attempt to start a new life, Pinkerton finds and arrests Jesse. During the train ride to the jail, Jesse is chained in a rear car, but tricks a deputy into showing his gun, which he takes from him and uses to escape to the top of the train car.

Zee and the remainder of the Gang shoot a cannon at the train, stopping it and rescuing Jesse. Confronted with Rains and Pinkerton, Jesse shoots neither of them but rather Rains' prized watch. Pinkerton tells Jesse that he should go to Tennessee, as 'the railroad has no interest in Tennessee'.

####Ambush at Tomahawk Gap####
Four outlaws have just been released from Yuma Territorial Prison. They return to Tomahawk Gap, now a ghost town, to retrieve the money that they stole and was buried by a partner somewhere in the town. While hunting, the Indians attack, and a life and death battle ensues.

####The Americano####
Texas rancher Sam Dent (Glenn Ford) takes a small herd of three Brahman bulls to Brazil, where he has sold them for a small fortune. There, he finds himself in the middle of a range war, as well as in love. Following this, he must find out who are his friends and who are his enemies.

####Angel and the Badman####
Wounded and on the run, notorious gunman Quirt Evans gallops onto a farm owned by Quaker Thomas Worth and his family and collapses. When Quirt urgently insists upon sending a telegram, Thomas and his daughter Penelope drive him into town in their wagon. After wiring a claim to the land recorder's office, Quirt passes out, and Penny cradles him. Ignoring the doctor's advice to rid themselves of the gunman, the compassionate Worth family tends to the delirious Quirt, and Penny becomes intrigued by his ravings about past loves.

Days later, when Quirt regains consciousness, Penny patiently explains the family's belief in non-violence. Three weeks later, Laredo Stevens and Hondo Jeffries ride into town looking for Quirt. When Penny's younger brother Johnny rushes home to warn Quirt of his visitors, Quirt quickly prepares to flee. Penny, now smitten with Quirt, offers to run off with him. At the sound of approaching horses, Quirt grabs his gun and discovers that it has been emptied. Training his weapon on the doorway, Quirt calmly greets Hondo and Laredo. Thinking that Quirt has the upper hand, Laredo offers to buy his claim. When Quirt sets the price at $20,000, Laredo hands over $5,000 in gold and challenges him to come for the balance when he is able – if he has the nerve.


Afterward, Quirt saddles his horse, but when Penny begs him to stay, he changes his mind. Later, Quirt learns that cantankerous rancher Frederick Carson has dammed up the stream that runs through the valley, thus draining the Worths' irrigation ditches. Quirt intimidates Carson into opening the dam.

One Sunday, Penny asks Quirt to accompany the family to a Quaker meeting. Before they leave, Marshal Wistful McClintock comes to question Quirt about a stagecoach robbery. The family swears that Quirt was with them at the time. The marshal then asks Quirt why he resigned as Wyatt Earp's deputy, sold his ranch and crossed over to the wrong side of the law soon after cattleman Walt Ennis was gunned down in a saloon brawl. When Quirt refuses to answer, the marshal leaves. Penny then begs Quirt to steer clear of Laredo, and he acquiesces because of his love for her.

As Quirt and the Worths ride to the Quaker gathering, Quirt's erstwhile sidekick, Randy McCall, tags along. Randy tells Quirt that Laredo plans to rustle a herd of cattle and suggests that they then steal the herd from Laredo and let him take the blame. During the meeting, Mr. Worth presents Quirt with a Bible with his name on the cover, as an expression of gratitude for his role in ending the water feud with Carson. Fearing that he will never be able to live up to Penny's expectations, Quirt abruptly leaves with Randy.


Quirt and Randy steal the herd from the original rustlers. They then celebrate with showgirls Lila Neal and Christine Taylor. When Lila, sensing a change in her old flame, teases Quirt about his Bible, Quirt becomes angry and rides back to the Worth farm. Overjoyed, Penny throws her arms around him, just as the marshal arrives to question Quirt about the rustling. Quirt states that Lila can provide him with an alibi. Penny is hurt that Quirt was with his old flame. She heard him talk about Lila in his delirium, and thinks that Quirt prefers Lila's fair hair. Quirt realizes the depth of his feelings for Penny, and they kiss hungrily in the barn.

The marshal warns Quirt that he is the wrong man for Penny. Quirt decides to propose to her anyway. Instead of replying, Penny invites Quirt to join her picking blackberries. Quirt answers Penny's questions about his early life. Kindly Walt Ennis raised him after his parents were massacred by Indians; then Ennis was murdered.

On their way home, Quirt and Penny are ambushed and chased by Laredo and Hondo. Their  wagon plunges over a cliff into the river. Penny develops a dangerous fever after the drenching. When the doctor informs Quirt that there is no hope for her, Quirt straps on his pistol and rides into town to exact revenge. After Quirt leaves, Penny's fever suddenly breaks.

In town, Quirt sends Bradley to tell Laredo and Hondo that he is waiting for them in the street. Penny and her family arrive. She gets Quirt to surrender his gun to her. As Laredo and Hondo draw their guns, Marshal McClintock shoots them both. Quirt rides off in the wagon with Penny. The marshal picks up Quirt's discarded weapon. Bradley comments that Quirt may need it, to which the marshal says, "Only a man who carries a gun ever needs one."

####Annie Oakley####
In late 1800s, Annie Oakley, a young woman from the Ohio backwoods, delivers six dozen quail that she has shot to the owner of the general store. He sends them to the MacIvor Hotel in Cincinnati, where the mayor is holding a large banquet in honor of Toby Walker, the "greatest shot in the whole world." Toby is particular about what he eats, and hotel owner James MacIvor bought Annie's quail because she shoots the quail cleanly through the head, leaving no buckshot elsewhere.

At the banquet, Jeff Hogarth signs Toby to a contract, making him part of the "Buffalo Bill's Wild West" show. James challenges Toby to a shooting contest to take place the next morning. James arranges for "Andy" Oakley to compete against Walker, only to be shocked when Annie appears. The match ends in a draw, so they proceed to sudden death. The two sharpshooters continue hitting their targets. Following a comment from her mother, Annie deliberately misses her next shot. Walker is a gracious, though unsuspecting winner; Hogarth knows exactly what happened.


When the Oakleys return home, Annie promises to reimburse all those who had bet on her. Jeff follows and tells Annie that he never bet the money that she had given him. He also invites her to join the "Wild West" show. Annie, having developed a crush on Toby, accepts. Jeff introduces her to Buffalo Bill and the other members of the show.

When Toby overhears Buffalo Bill telling Jeff that he might have to fire Annie because she lacks showmanship, he teaches her some shooting tricks.

At the first show, Sitting Bull is in the audience. Ned Buntline, Buffalo Bill's publicist, tries to enlist Sitting Bull for the show, but Sitting Bull is bored with the acts until he sees Annie shoot five targets thrown in the air. He is impressed and changes his mind to join the show.

A romance blossoms between Annie and Toby despite Jeff's attempts to win her affections. They also become good friends with Sitting Bull.

One day, a man with a grudge tries to shoot Sitting Bull. Toby grabs the man's gun just as it fires, saving Sitting Bull's life although his eyes are affected by the closeness of the shot. While Annie's fortunes rise, Toby's decline. He hides his injury but accidentally shoots Annie in the hand and is dismissed from the show. Annie is heartbroken but Jeff and Wild Bill try to keep Toby away from her. However, during a chance meeting, Annie is told by a woman accompanying Toby that she has only brought bad luck to Toby. Although Toby tries to stop the woman, Annie feels that what she says is true and unhappily retreats. After a triumphant tour of Europe, the show plays in New York City, where Sitting Bull spots Toby and reunites him with Annie.

####Apache####
Following the surrender of the great leader Geronimo, Massai — the last Apache warrior — is captured and sent on a prison train to a reservation in Florida. But he manages to escape in Oklahoma and heads back to his homeland to win back his woman and settle down to grow crops. His pursuers have other ideas, though.

####Apache Ambush####
The Civil War now over,  President Lincoln, just hours before his assassination, selects Indian scout James Kingston to facilitate a cattle shipment from Texas to the north. He is helped by cattle driver Tim O’Roarke and Maj. McGuire. Mexican fanatic Joaquin Jironza, in cahoots with the Apaches, wants the Henry Repeating Rifles that Hank Calvin is shipping with Kingston’s convoy. Embittered ex-rebel leader Lee Parker is also an obstacle to Kingston's mission, as he tries to drive the cattle through Confederate and Apache territory. Calvin is killed when the convoy is attacked by Apaches. Later, the rifles are missing and Parker is suspected due to his confederate sympathies, but he denies the theft. The Union Army is unable to provide Kingston an adequate escort for the cattle drive because of orders to secure the Mexican border. Kingston discovers Parker knows where the rifles are and a fight ensues between the Southerners in town and Kingston’s men. After Parker leaves, the town and Kingston’s men unite to search for the rifles to prevent Jironza from finding them. Parker is captured by Jironza. Parker offers to tell Jironza where the rifles are in exchange for the protection of his father and sister, Ann; and, for assistance in disrupting the cattle drive. Kingston finds the rifles buried under Calvin’s wagon, and is attacked by Jironza. Jironza mortally wounds Parker and kills his father. Before Parker dies, he tells Ann to let Kingston know about an Apache ambush Jironza has planned. The Apaches stampede the cattle and a gunfight ensues. The Apache chief is killed and the other Indians retreat. Kingston and his men continue the drive to Abilene. Kingston promises Ann he will return.

####Apache Drums####
A notorious gambler is thrown out of a small town named Spanish Boot, but he quickly returns when he discovers the town is threatened by the Mescalero Apaches led by Chief Victorio.

####The Apache Kid's Escape####
Hurt by his sister's letter saying they can not accept the money he sent for his sick mother as it was obtained illegally, the Apache Kid decides to go on the straight and narrow. Others including Buck Harris and Ted Conway decide to use the Apache Kid's trademark of a chequered scarf to commit robberies.

####Apache Rifles####
Captain Stanton is a renowned Indian Fighter with his animosity stirred by the fact that his career officer father was forced to resign after trusting a group of Indians who broke their word to him. Stanton is sent to the field to relieve the commander of a troop unsuccessfully hunting Apaches who have fled their reservation. Stanton quickly meets with success by having his new troop drop their excess equipment to move faster and longer. He defeats a war party of Apache by luring them with an unescorted wagon loaded with hidden soldiers who engage the enemy until Stanton's mounted troop surround and defeat them. Stanton captures Red Hawk, the son of Chief Victorio and uses him to negotiate a truce with the Apaches promising to stay on their reservation in return for white miners not trespassing on their land to mine gold.

Though the territory remains peaceful, the economy of the settlers and miners faces a serious economic threat when the miners are unable to pay the business interests that advance them money for their mines in return for a percentage of the profits.

Captain Stanton's sympathies gradually change when the miners continue their trespassing. He also is attracted to Dawn Gillis, a courageous missionary teacher who is half Indian herself, and teaches in an Indian school. Stanton ruins his military career by beating up a local troublemaker who makes racist taunts to Dawn, then later engages a group of whites who massacre a group of Indians at the school that leads Stanton to open fire on the whites killing several of them.

A delegation complains about Stanton's behaviour and the economic disaster to the Federal Government in Washington D.C. who send out a new commander named Colonel Perry. The Colonel not only relieves Stanton but dismantles his line of outposts to monitor white entry into the reservation that leads the miners to swarm in and hostilities to resume.

Victorio's Apaches lure the inexperienced Colonel and his men into an ambush but a messenger escapes to the remnants of the Colonel's command of which Stanton takes charge to straighten out the mess.

####Apache Rose####
When oil is discovered on a Vegas ranch, Mexican gambler Carlos is in a deadly fight with his enemies for the oil, putting his girlfriend (Dale Evans) at risk as well as his female cousin whom the bad guys shoot in the arm. His girlfriend then masquerades as his wounded cousin narrowly missing getting killed but cowboy hero Roy Rogers catches wind of the plot and rescues Dale aka Carlos' cousin. Eventually the bad guys are brought to justice after a tense battle on the seashore with guns and fists.

####Apache Territory####
Drifter Logan Cates (Rory Calhoun) spies the desert at a watering hole when he sees Apache Indians about to attack three cowboys. He fires a warning shot into the air, allowing the cowboys to flee. Sometime later, Cates encounters a young woman whose parents have been tortured and murdered by Apache Indians.

Sensing the presence of Apaches, Logan brings the girl to a small box canyon that is not only defensible but has a supply of water. He meets up with 19-year-old Lonnie Foreman, who was the only survivor of the group that Cates warned before. The location attracts a variety of people escaping the Apaches including a small band of cavalrymen, Logan's former girlfriend, Jennifer Fair,  and her fiancee, Grant Kimbrough. On the first night in the canyon, a Pima Indian named Lugo sneaks in looking for water. Though he is wanted for murder by the United States for killing an officer who wanted Lugo's gold, Cates allows him to stay due to his hatred towards the Apache. Lonnie and Junie Hatchett, the girl who Cates rescued earlier, quickly grow attached to one another.

They are besieged by Apache, where Logan the loner gradually discovers that he can not escape the responsibility of leadership of the group through his knowledge of Indian fighting and the local territory as well as his ability to knock sense into their heads when they engage in unhelpful behaviour. The numbers of the cavalrymen slowly dwindle, with initial attacks killing off one soldier as well as the sergeant. One of the cavalrymen, Zimmerman, hatches a plan to escape with Kimbrough, though Jennifer doesn't agree with the plan. Zimmerman is killed when he steals Lugo's gold and runs into the desert, where he is quickly shot. Lugo, however, hid his gold supply and Zimmerman only stole rocks.

As their food supplies dwindle, Cates risks his life by invading the Apache camp for food. Shortly thereafter, their water supplies begin to dwindle as well. Cates motions to ration off the water. More Apache attacks cause the deaths of more cavalrymen, until only Webb and Conley are left. A fellow officer's death leaves Webb enraged, and he runs blindly into the Apache camp, where he is wounded and taken. That night, the sound of his tortured cries torments the survivors. Cates leaves and it is implied that he ends the horror by shooting Webb.

As the wind picks up, Cates to put a plan into action: under the cover of a sandstorm, they will fill empty water bottles with black powder and small stones to make grenades and scatter the Apache across the desert. As they prepare to leave, Kimbrough disagrees with Cates' plan to leave Lugo with the women, and though he journeys out with the other men, he quickly returns so he can flee. Jennifer realizes Kimbrough is nothing but a coward and breaks off their engagement. Kimbrough tries to leave but is stopped by Lugo. Kimbrough attempts to draw his gun but Lugo shoots him dead.

Elsewhere, Cates, Conley and Lonnie find the Apache horde. Cates and Lonnie light and throw their grenades successfully, but Conley simply runs into the Apache camp and detonates his grenade at point blank range. The two return to the Box Canyon, where Jennifer reveals the fate of Kimbrough. After the storm passes, Lugo reveals he hid his gold in Cates' saddlebags, and gives a share of his gold to Lonnie so he and Junie can move to California. Lugo, Lonnie and Junie leave, with only Cates and Jennifer remaining. Jennifer leaves, with Cates catching up to her and the two riding off into the distance.

####Apache Trail####
Tom O'Folliard (William Lundigan) is released from jail and seeks work at his prior employer, a stagecoach line. He is sent to manage a stagecoach rest stop in a remote area. Upon arrival, he meets a woman, Señora Martinez (Connie Gilchrist) and her daughter Rosalia (Donna Reed) who cook and clean at the rest stop. When the next stage arrives, among its cargo is a strong box with cash. Soon after, Folliard's brother "Trigger" Bill Folliard (Lloyd Nolan), a known outlaw arrives and seeks shelter from the local Apaches, whom he has offended. Upon his discovery that a strong box is present, he plans to steal it and make a getaway.

During Tom Folliard's absence from the rest stop, Trigger Bill gets the upper hand on the stagecoach line employees watching him and tries to escape with the proceeds but is thwarted by his brother's arrival back at the rest stop. Soon thereafter, the Apaches attack the rest stop but are repulsed. They demand Trigger Bill and in return they will leave the rest stop alone. A vote is taken by all those in the rest stop with Tom casting the deciding vote to not give his brother to the Apaches. During the next attack Bill, previously expertly shot through both hands by his brother, elects in noble fashion to sacrifice himself to save the others by riding away from the rest stop. Meanwhile, Tom, after a brief flirtation with one of the stagecoach passengers, Constance Selden (Ann Ayars), tells Señora Martinez that he would like to court her daughter.

####Apache Uprising####
The film takes place in Arizona circa 1880s and deals with the stage coach lines trying to run from Texas through Arizona over to Phoenix and points west. The stage coach and passengers are attacked by renegade Apaches. These stage coach hands, passengers, and various AZ outlaws, all of whom are travelling through Indian country, are forced to join forces against the Apaches in order to save their lives and scalps.

####Apache War Smoke####
Tom Herrera, the head of a stagecoach station in New Mexico, prepares to defend against an attack by an Apache party, seeking revenge for the killing of several Indians by an outlaw. When a stagecoach arrives at the station with passengers Nancy Dekker, Cyril R. Snowden, Lorraine Sayburn, and Fanny Webson, they are stranded at the station with Tom and his outlaw father Peso Herrera. Peso is the most wanted outlaw in the country and is after the gold contained in the casket of the stagecoach. Tom knowing about his father's intention takes his guns away as a precaution. As the Apaches begin their attack, suspicion is immediately cast on Peso as the reason for the Apaches attack. Tom and Fanny defend Peso when others in the station suggest Peso be turned over to the Indians to end the conflict quickly. Tom eventually wins the argument and Peso stays in the station.

However, with the help of Fanny, who gives her guns to Peso, he holds up Tom and the others and demands that they hand over the gold. Tom shoots the gun out of his father's hand. Despite the robbery attempt Tom continues to believe that his father is not responsible for the Indians attack. A fierce battle begins with the Indians and those trapped inside the station. During the fighting, an Indians emissary tries to negotiate the surrender of the murderer, but Tom again refuses to turn his father over and the fighting resumes. During the battle, Peso knocks out Pike Curtis, who Peso knows is the killer, and turns him over to the Indians. With all doubt about his father removed, Tom stays behind with Nancy, while the stagecoach leaves for San Francisco. Later, Madre informs Tom that the gold is not as safe as he thinks because the young boy assigned to guard the gold is actually another one of Peso's sons.

