####8mm####
Private investigator Tom Welles is contacted by Daniel Longdale, attorney for wealthy widow Mrs. Christian, whose husband has recently died. While clearing out her late husband's safe, she and Longdale find an 8mm movie which appears to depict a real murder of a girl, but Mrs. Christian wants to know for certain. Welles is instructed by Longdale and Mrs. Christian not to reproduce the snuff film in any way, and to not tell anyone else about the investigation.

After looking through missing persons files, Welles discovers the girl is Mary Ann Mathews and visits her mother, Janet, in North Carolina. She allows Welles to search her house, and he finds Mary Ann's diary, in which she says she went to Hollywood to become a film star. He asks Mrs. Mathews if she wants to know the truth, even if it is unbearable. She says that she wants to know what happened to her daughter.

In Hollywood, with the help of adult video store employee Max California, Welles delves into the world of underground fetish pornography.  He attempts to find out if snuff films are real, or if there is anyone in this underworld who was connected to this film. Contact with sleazy talent scout Eddie Poole leads them to director Dino Velvet, whose violent pornographic films star a masked man known as "Machine" who rapes and tortures women. To gain more evidence, Welles pretends to be a client interested in commissioning a hardcore BDSM film to be directed by Velvet and starring Machine. Velvet agrees and arranges a meeting in New York City.

The meeting turns out to be an ambush. Longdale and Poole appear and hold Welles at gunpoint. It is now clear that the film was real; Mr. Christian contacted Longdale to procure a snuff film, and being unable to find one, Longdale commissioned Velvet and Poole to make one.  Velvet and Machine produce a bound and beaten Max, whom they abducted to force Welles to bring them the only surviving copy of the film. As Longdale and Welles go to Welles' car to retrieve the film, Longdale admits that he never thought Welles would get as far as he did, and just wanted to placate Mrs. Christian with the investigation. Once he delivers the film, Longdale and Velvet burn it and kill Max. As they are about to kill Welles, he tells them that Mr. Christian paid $1 million for the film; Velvet, Poole, and Machine received $50,000 and Longdale kept the major portion. In an ensuing fight, Velvet and Longdale are both killed; Welles wounds Machine and escapes.

Welles calls Mrs. Christian to tell her his discoveries and recommends going to the police, to which she agrees. Arriving at her estate, Welles is told that Mrs. Christian committed suicide after hearing the news. She left envelopes for the Mathews family and Welles: it contains the rest of his payment and a note reading, "Try to forget us". Welles warns his already frantic wife of the impending danger and to seek shelter in a location known only to them, and hands her his half of the money.

Welles decides to seek justice for Mary Ann by killing the remaining people involved. Welles returns to Hollywood and tracks down Poole. He takes him to the shooting location and tries to kill him, but he is hesitant. He calls Mrs. Mathews to tell her about her daughter and asks for her permission to punish those responsible. Mrs. Mathews breaks down hysterically once presented with the truth, but affirms that she loved her daughter. With that, Welles returns and beats Poole to death with his pistol, burning his body and the pornography from his car. Welles discovers Machine's address in New York, and attacks him at his home. Welles unmasks him, revealing an unremarkable, bespectacled man named George. He reveals to Welles that his sadism did not result from neglect or childhood abuse; he kills people simply because he enjoys it. They struggle, and Welles kills him.

After returning to his family, Welles breaks down in front of his wife as he tries to process all of the evil that he had seen over the course of the investigation. Months later, Welles receives a letter from Mrs. Mathews, thanking him and relating her gratitude for the fact that, in spite of everything, she and Welles were the only people who really cared about Mary Ann.

####Achchamundu! Achchamundu!####
Senthil Kumar (Prasanna) and Malini (Sneha) are a happily married couple in New Jersey, living life like any other born-in-India, arrived-in-the-US couple do. Senthil submerges himself in the office and eats sambar rice at home, and Malini never misses a bhajan at the temple and shops at Indian stores. They have a 10-year-old daughter Rithika (Akshaya Dinesh), the apple of their eyes (their car's license plate carries the name of their daughter).

The family has just settled down in a new, spacious home about which Malini, understandably, has fears. The couple squabbles amicably about everything from Malini's perpetual laundry and cooking; while Senthil argues with friends about the significance of viboothi and takes his family on weekend trips and birthday parties. It is a normal, happy life in the US until Robertson (John Shea) arrives, to paint the basement. Now, things are never the same at home again.

Robertson's unusually kind behavior towards children sets off warning bells in your head, especially when he is shown to be a pedophile who exercises like mad within the confines of his home, always moving on towards his next target. How the couple saves their child forms the rest of the story.

####Aduri####
Aduri Aman (Ariana Almajan), finds herself the target of federal agents, though she is herself employed by the FBI as an analyst. Unsuspecting that she may have knowledge of government secrets, she receives help and refuge from a stranger, Saif (Kawan Karadaghi). He seems overly eager to help. As the couple races through Washington D.C. suburbs, Aduri's own past catches up to her.

Various contemporary events are used as plot devices in "Aduri". These include:

*United States War on Terror
*The 2004 Asian tsunami
*The crude oil price hike from 2005 to 2008
*The 2008 United States Presidential Elections

####Aftermath####
A young couple struggling to stay together are offered an amazing deal on a home with a questionable past that would normally be beyond their means. In a final attempt to start fresh as a couple, they take the deal.

####Almost Married####
A Russian woman with a forged passport attempts to elude the police and seeks the assistance of a man she met one summer in Scotland. She married an official at the British Embassy in Moscow, and settles down with him in England. However she reveals that she is already married, and her husband is criminally insane.

####Alone####
Jessica (Jules Willcox), a recent widow, is moving. During her drive, she keeps encountering a mysterious man (Marc Menchaca) in several places: on the highway, at a gas station, a motel, a rest stop, then ultimately when she crashes her car, due to her tire being slashed. He drugs her, then takes her to his cabin where he locks her in the basement.

Jessica wakes up and pleads with the man for her release. He alludes to her not being the first one he's taken and then he forces her to tell him what happened to her husband. She reveals that her husband killed himself using a gun. The next morning, she hears the man leaving and notices that the key is still in the keyhole on the other side. She slides her sweater underneath the door and uses a stray nail to push the key out. She frees herself and hides in an upstairs closet when the man comes back. She overhears him speaking to his wife and daughter on the phone, lying about where he is and that he'll be back soon. Once he goes downstairs, she flees outside.

The man realizes what has happened and a chase ensues. She injures her foot and they face off at the river, where she jumps in to escape. Injured, wet, and cold, she stumbles through the forest until she hears rustling in the bush. Thinking the man has found her, she hides behind a tree and hits someone in the chest with a branch. Instead of the man, she hits a man named Robert (Anthony Heald) who is out hunting. After a tense conversation in which he has his rifle pointed at her, he offers her his phone to call for help. However, the blow with the branch had broken it. He then helps her to his car and offers her food, water, and his wife's hiking boots as she is barefoot. As they are driving, they come to a stop where a tree has fallen, blocking the road. As they get out of the car, the man arrives, making up a story that Jessica is his sister and she's having a psychotic episode. After some back and forth, Robert demands to use the man's phone to call the police. The man holds out his phone to Robert and as he reaches out for it, the man catches Robert off guard and begins to beat him. Jessica flees on foot while the man kills Robert with his rifle.

The chase continues, the man now armed with Robert's hunting rifle. Jessica hides in a cave at night to get out of the rain, but the man spots her and shoots her in the shoulder. She hides in a small pond. The man tries to goad her into coming out by talking about her husband's suicide but gives up and leaves when she doesn't come out.

The next day, while the man is disposing of Robert's body, Jessica climbs into his car. While looking for the car keys, she finds the man's phone. She steals it and climbs into the trunk as the man returns to the vehicle. While he is driving, Jessica dials 911 and tries to whisper to the operator what has happened to her but ultimately hangs up when the operator can't hear her.

The man sees that his phone is missing and stops the car. After looking for his phone, he realizes that she is in the trunk. Armed with a tire iron, Jessica leaps into the backseat and attacks, striking him in the head multiple times. The man starts driving and uses his hunting knife to attack Jessica, but she wrestles the knife away from him and stabs his arm. The man crashes the car, flipping it over.

Dazed, Jessica climbs out and spots a search and rescue helicopter. She runs after it into a clearing. She uses the man's phone to call his wife and she tells her that her husband is not on a business trip, that he is trying to kill her, and that he has murdered Robert. The man, whose name has been revealed as Sam, follows Jessica into the clearing. Jessica puts the phone on speaker and taunts Sam with it. Enraged that Jessica has exposed his true nature to his family, Sam hangs up the phone and, armed with the hunting knife, fights with Jessica, who is armed with the tire iron. After one final fight, Jessica ultimately wins and fatally stabs Sam, and watches him with satisfaction as he dies. As she lies exhausted, the helicopter descends from above.

####American Dreamer####
Cam (Jim Gaffigan) is an employee for a vehicle for hire company who struggles to make ends meet. Particularly, Cam is having difficulty making child support payments, which could mean losing the ability to see his son. Cam gets the opportunity to chauffeur a low-level drug dealer named Mazz (Robbie Jones) for extra money. However, his increasing financial problems force him to make a rash and desperate decision: kidnap Mazz's infant child and demand a ransom. Cam quickly realizes that he is in way over his head, but there's no turning back.

####American Fable####
Young Gitty, an 11-year-old girl living on a farm in 1980s rural America, tries not to worry about her family losing the farm and seeks to escape the stress of her home by exploring the farm and its lands. She is shocked to discover, however, that the developer buying up local farms is now seemingly being kept prisoner in the family's old abandoned grain silo at the edge of the farm. Gitty begins spending time with the man, ultimately finding herself torn between loyalty to what she thinks is right, and loyalty to her own family. All is not as it may seem, though, as the family finds itself involved with individuals who are like something out of a fairy tale.

####Antitrust####
Working with his three friends at their new software development company Skullbocks, Stanford graduate Milo Hoffman is recruited by Gary Winston, the CEO of the software corporation NURV.  Milo is offered an attractive programming position with a large paycheck, an almost-unrestrained working environment, and extensive creative control over his work.  After accepting, Hoffman and his girlfriend, Alice Poulson (Forlani), move to NURV headquarters in Portland, Oregon.

Despite development of the flagship product (Synapse, a worldwide media distribution network) being well on schedule, Hoffman soon becomes suspicious of the excellent source code that Winston personally provides to him, seemingly when needed most, while refusing to divulge the code's origin.

After his best friend and fellow computer programmer, Teddy Chin, is murdered, Hoffman discovers that NURV is stealing the code they need from programmers around the world—including Chin—and then killing them.  NURV not only employs an extensive surveillance system to observe and steal code, the company has infiltrated the Justice Department and most mainstream media.  Even Hoffman's girlfriend is a plant, an ex-con hired by the company to spy on and manipulate him.

In a secret NURV database of employee surveillance dossiers, Hoffman discovers highly-sensitive personal information about Lisa Calighan (Cook), a friendly co-worker.  When he says he knows the company has this information about her, she agrees to help him expose NURV's crimes.  Coordinating with Brian Bissel, Hoffman's old start-up friend, they plan to use a local public-access television station to hijack Synapse and globally broadcast their charges against NURV.  However, Calighan is actually Winston's accomplice and foils Hoffman.

When the plan fails, and as Winston prepares to kill Hoffman, a backup plan is put into motion.  Off-screen, Hoffman had previously confronted and convinced Poulson to turn against NURV; she, the fourth member of Skullbocks, and NURV's incorruptible security contractors usurp one of NURV's own work centers—"Building 21"—and transmit incriminating evidence with the Synapse code.  Calighan, Winston, and his entourage are arrested by the FBI for their crimes.  After amicably parting ways with the redeemed Poulson, Hoffman rejoins Skullbocks.

####Assassin####
A private military operation, led by Valmora, invents futuristic microchip tech that enables the mind of an agent to inhabit the body of another person to carry out covert, deadly missions. But when Agent Sebastian is killed during a secret mission, his wife, Alexa, must take his place in an attempt to bring the man responsible to justice.

####The Atomic City####
Frank and Martha Addison live in Los Alamos, where he does top-secret work as a physicist. They have a young son, Tommy, who goes with school mates to Santa Fe for a carnival with their teacher, Ellen Haskell. During a puppet show, he disappears. This is not noticed until his name is announced as the winner of a raffle for a bicycle at the end of the show.

They await a phone call as they fear something has happened. They receive a ransom note assembled from words from different newspapers. They also get a phone call saying to stay silent.

Ellen's boyfriend is an FBI agent, Russ Farley, and she passes along her concerns. Farley and partner Harold Mann begin tailing the Addisons. When a kidnapper instructs Frank to steal a file from the atomic lab and mail it to a Los Angeles hotel, he wants to inform the authorities, but Martha fears for their boy.

A small-time thief, David Rogers, collects an envelope with the file at a post office, but they alert the FBI who follow him. He goes to a baseball game, followed by the FBI's agents who ask the TV cameras to zoom into him. After the match they are surprised when his car explodes, killing the man. However Rogers no longer has the envelope. The FBI watch the film footage as they presume he has passed the file to someone at the game. Watching the film footage the FBI spots a hot-dog vendor who is actually Donald Clark, a man with Communist ties. The FBI bring him in but are limited in what they can extract. However Dr addison is left in an adjoining room alone. He beats up Clark to ascertain where his son is... in Santa Fe.

Tommy is moved by kidnappers to the Puye Cliff Dwellings in New Mexico, where they briefly encounter the Fentons, a family of tourists. The mastermind turns out to be Dr. Rassett, a physicist. He studies the file Addison mailed and determines it to be a fake. Rassett orders the boy killed, but Tommy has escaped and is hiding in a cave.

The son of the Fentons finds the raffle ticket at the ruins, and back in Santa Fe tries to exchange it for the raffle prize. The area is being watched by the FBI and they ask where the ticket came from, receiving the vital clue to Tommy's whereabouts. FBI agents rush to the site, where Rassett is arrested after killing his accomplices, and Tommy is saved.

####Bad Match####
Harris is an average man who regularly uses an online dating service to seduce women into hookups and then proceeds to ghost them the next morning. On one such date, he meets Riley Miller. When Harris attempts, as usual, to leave before Riley wakes up the next morning, she wakes and tries persistently to get him to stay longer. Harris eventually talks his way into leaving. During the course of the following day, Riley repeatedly texts Harris at work, much to his annoyance. That night, he initially attempts to complete a project for work, but invites Riley over after she sends a nude image. They once again have sex, and she stays the night. The next morning, Harris wakes to a phone call from his job informing him that he missed an important presentation. Riley mentions she accidentally silenced his alarms hours ago and apologizes. Harris, upset, leaves in a hurry, trusting Riley to see herself out.

At work, he manages to smooth things over with his boss Terri Webster, although she isn't pleased. As the day goes on, Riley continues to call and text Harris with apologies, although he ignores her. Upon returning home at the end of the day, Harris is shocked to discover Riley still in his apartment, cooking an apology dinner for him. He sends Riley home, but fails to express to her that he doesn't wish to see her again. He spends the rest of the night playing video games with a teenager online. Their trash-talk gets heated, causing the teenager to leave the game abruptly. Riley continues to call Harris throughout the night and he continues to ignore her. The next day, Harris hangs out with his friends at a bar. Eventually, Riley becomes the topic of conversation and Harris describes her as a lunatic who he slept with twice against his better judgement. Riley, who tracked Harris down via Facebook, overhears this, makes a scene, then storms out, indicating she doesn't want to see him again.

The next day, Riley repeatedly tries to get in contact with Harris, threatening suicide if Harris doesn't "rescue" her. Harris goes to Riley's apartment, finding her seemingly dead on the floor. However, she reveals it was a malicious prank. Harris is furious, shattering a mirror and storming out. The next day, Harris's boss informs him that his Twitter account was hacked, and he is fired as a result. The following day, the police arrest Harris after discovering child pornography on his computer that Harris was unaware of. Harris is convinced Riley is responsible for him getting fired and for downloading the child pornography onto his computer and realizes that a confession is likely the only way for him to avoid prison time. He goes to Riley's apartment, intending to get her to confess while recording their conversation. Riley apologizes for faking her suicide, but refuses to acknowledge hacking his Twitter account or downloading child pornography onto his computer. Harris, frustrated, gets violent, but leaves once Riley screams out for help. The following day, Riley files a restraining order against Harris.

Harris, still determined to get Riley to confess, lures her away from her friends with a fake Facebook account, drugs her, then kidnaps her. He tries to get her to confess at knifepoint and she agrees, although seems confused as to what she's supposed to confess to. She convinces Harris to untie her so she can reapply makeup, pointing out that no one will believe a confession video if she looks disheveled. Once Harris unties her, she attacks him, eventually gaining the upper hand and striking his head repeatedly with a golf club, apparently killing him. Riley leaves into the parking lot but can't find a way past the parking lot's locked gates. She turns around and is suddenly stabbed in the chest and killed by a still-alive Harris.

After Riley dies, Harris begins wondering why Riley refused to simply confess. He receives a call from his lawyer informing him that all charges have been dropped due to a confession by the teenager from Harris's online video game whom he'd insulted, named Keenan. As Harris processes this, a security guard discovers Harris, his face revealed to be heavily damaged, and Riley's body and calls the police.

####Barracuda####
A young British woman named Sinaloa comes to Texas to find Merle, her half-sister by way of their dead country musician father. It doesn’t take long for Sinaloa to charm her way into Merle’s life. Her singing awakens something in Merle and erases any lingering doubts about their shared bloodline. But an all-too-familiar chaos comes with it, which soon starts to unravel Merle’s stable world—her job, her upcoming marriage, and an already tense relationship with her mother, Patricia. And while the family music legacy brought this stranger to town, darker motives are woven into the songs she sings, showing glimpses of a violent rage that’s been building for years.

####The Bay of Silence####
Rosalind and Will live an enviable life in London. She is a celebrated artist, he is a dependable engineer and willing stepfather to her twin eight-year-old daughters. When the difficult birth of their son, Amadeo, rocks Rosalind's carefully calibrated world, she abruptly disappears with her children and the young nanny, Candy. Will suspects a link to a recently arrived suitcase from France, filled with faded photographic negatives.

He launches a frantic search across Europe, locating them at the cliff-top Normandy home of Rosalind's dead photographer uncle. But relief turns to horror when he discovers his son has mysteriously died. Hiding in the dilapidated house, Rosalind is too traumatized to recognize him, the twins speak in riddles and Candy has disappeared. A desperate Will sees two options: Report the tragedy and risk his wife being accused of murder or cover it up and protect his family. Unable to believe his wife is culpable, Will secretly buries Amadeo in the dead of night and flees France with his family to a Swiss mountain clinic to help Rosalind recover. When Will confides in her mother, Vivian, she confesses Rosalind's mental instability links to being raped at fourteen. Will reluctantly agrees to a car accident "cover story", orchestrated by her powerful art dealer stepfather, Milton, in order to protect Rosalind.

Rosalind returns home but it is Will who cannot return to "normal". He roams London, secretly investigating the mystery of his wife's past until his obsession and grief drives the vulnerable Rosalind to take refuge with Milton. In a race against time, Will finds the missing Candy who helps him piece together what happened the night his son died and uncovers the identity of the mysterious Pierre Laurent, who holds the key to Rosalind's secrets. When an unarmed Will faces a vengeful Milton, it is Rosalind, in a dramatic twist who decides Milton's fate. Finally, they return to the Bay of Silence in Liguria, Italy, where their story began, to learn if love can conquer all.

####Beast####
Recently widowed Dr. Nate Samuels and his daughters, Meredith and Norah, arrive at the Mopani Reserve in South Africa for a vacation. Nate reunites with his old friend, Martin Battles, a biologist and Mopani manager, who introduced Nate and his wife. Martin takes Nate and the girls to the village where Nate's wife grew up. Nate confides to Martin his guilt over being distant following his and his wife's separation, after which she developed terminal cancer. The trip is to reconnect with his daughters.

The next day, Martin and the family tour the reserve's restricted areas. Martin shows them a local lion pride and notices that one is injured. At a nearby Tsonga community, Martin discovers most of the population is dead. Suspecting a rogue, man-killing lion is responsible, Martin rushes back to report the finding. Nate encounters an injured Tsonga man on the road but is unable to save him. Martin is mauled as he tracks the lion. It then ambushes Nate, who takes cover in the car. Meredith speeds away but crashes into a tree, stranding them.

Martin radios Nate on a walkie-talkie, warning him to stay away, saying the lion is using Martin as bait to lure the others out. As the radio is out of range to contact help, Nate assembles a tranquilizer rifle. He confronts the lion, hoping to subdue it long enough to recover Martin and trek back to civilization. The lion attacks, and Meredith takes advantage of the distraction to save Martin. Norah stabs the lion with a tranquilizer dart after it knocks the gun from Nate's hands, causing the lion to retreat. Meredith brings Martin back to the car, and Nate treats his wound.

As night falls, the now-recovering Martin speculates the lion went rogue after poachers killed its pride. Soon after, the poachers arrive and initially agree to transport the group to the village in exchange for payment. Tensions rise after the poachers spot Martin, an avid anti-poacher, inside the car. The lion attacks and scatters the poachers, killing most of them. Nate maneuvers his way past the lion and finds the poachers' truck keys. Back at the car, Martin holds the lion off long enough to allow the sisters to escape, though Meredith sustains a deep laceration to her side. The car falls into a ravine and Martin sacrifices himself by setting off an explosion from the leaking gasoline, severely burning the lion. Nate starts the truck and races away with Meredith and Norah but has to stop the car before they run out of fuel. They leave the car and walk to an abandoned schoolhouse nearby.

At the abandoned schoolhouse, which the poachers used as their base, Nate treats Meredith's wound and forages for water. The lion appears and stalks the girls, but Nate returns and scares it off. Locking his daughters inside a room, Nate promises to return after subduing the lion. After provoking the lion into chasing him, Nate lures it to the local lion pride which Martin helped raise. The rogue lion overtakes and mauls Nate, nearly killing him, until the pride males intervene and kill the rogue. A Mopani worker arrives and saves Nate as he falls unconscious.

Awakening in a hospital, a recovering Nate tells his daughters he loves them. Sometime later, the three return to the preserve, this time as a united family, and recreate the photo Nate's late wife took of herself next to her favorite tree.

####The Bedford Incident####
The United States Navy destroyer USS "Bedford", under the strict command of Captain Eric Finlander, is sailing in the Greenland, Iceland, and United Kingdom gap.efn|Specifically, it is in Greenland territorial waters at the entrance to the J.C. Jacobsen Fjord, which is due northwest from Iceland. Aboard are Ben Munceford, a civilian photojournalist; Commodore Wolfgang Schrepke, a German Navy NATO naval advisor; Ensign Ralston, an inexperienced young officer who is constantly criticized by Finlander for small errors; and Lieutenant Commander Chester Potter, the ship's new doctor.

When the "Bedford" detects a Soviet Navy submarine just off the coast of Greenland, Finlander mercilessly stalks his prey into international waters and plays a waiting game after losing sonar contact in a field of icebergs, knowing the diesel-powered sub will have to surface within 24 hours to replenish its air and recharge its batteries. The crew never complains, but Potter is concerned that maintaining this level of vigilance is dangerous and suggests modifications, all of which Finlander dismisses out of hand.

Munceford is aboard to photograph life on a Navy destroyer, but his real interest is Finlander, who was one of the only military officials to publicly state that the United States should have used greater force during the Cuban Missile Crisis. When Munceford asks Finlander if this is why, though he gets results, he was recently passed over for promotion to admiral, Finlander becomes hostile and accuses Munceford of misinterpreting the facts. He says he would go "all the way" to save his country, but, after calming down, insists his current action is just a deterrent.

The submarine is spotted by the "Bedford"'s radar when it finally pokes its snorkel above the surface. It was not seen first by the sonarman because he is having exhaustion-induced delusions. Schrepke reminds Finlander that his orders are just to escort the sub out of Greenland's waters, but Finlander sends a message ordering the sub to fully surface and identify itself. When the order is ignored, Finlander runs over the snorkel. Munceford and Schrepke protest that Finlander is forcing the sub to fight, and Finlander orders Ralston to arm an anti-submarine rocket. He reassures Munceford and Schrepke that he will not fire first, but when he says that "if he fires one, I'll fire one", the fatigued Ralston just hears "fire one" and launches the rocket.

Before it is destroyed, the submarine launches four nuclear torpedoes. Although Finlander orders evasive maneuvers and countermeasures, the torpedoes continue to home-in on the "Bedford". Finlander silently leaves the bridge, followed by Munceford, who frantically pleads for him to do something. The captain looks away sheepishly, and the "Bedford" and her crew are vaporized in an atomic blast, resulting in a mushroom cloud.

####Believers####
While on duty, two emergency paramedics, David Vaughn and Victor Hernandez, receive a call from a young girl named Libby, whose mother has lost consciousness in a deserted area. However, when they arrive there they are captured by members of a cult called the Quanta Group.

The two men discover that the Quanta Group is composed of scientists, philosophers and mathematicians and led by a man who  calls himself "The Teacher". The Quanta Group believes that the end of the world is coming soon and is preparing for a mass suicide. While Victor is seduced by the group, David must try to escape and save his friend before it is too late.

####Below Utopia####
Daniel returns to his family's mansion for the holidays along with his girlfriend Susanne. His family's seemingly utopian existence is overshadowed by not only the death of Daniel's brother, but also by Daniel's failure to live up to his brother's potential. However, this quickly becomes inconsequential, as blood-thirsty killers soon show up to steal the artwork, and whatever else they can find in the house. As the family members are killed, Daniel flees with Susanne in the basement, hoping for survival. Daniel reveals that he not only knows the blood-thirsty killers and is in on the whole thing, but was also responsible for the death of his brother. Daniel kills all the "art thieves" and starts to stage the scene when one of his siblings "rises from the dead" to foil his plan. He is caught in the act of trying to strangle him by Susanne and what ensues is a battle not only for her life, but the life of his last-surviving family member.

####Beneath the Leaves####
Detective Brian Larson must recapture James Whitley, a psychopath who victimized him and three other boys as children, when Whitley escapes from prison.

####Betrayed####
Set in the American Midwest, the film begins with the murder of a Jewish radio host in Chicago. FBI undercover agent Catherine Weaver, alias Katie Phillips, sets out to infiltrate a farming community, suspected of harboring those responsible.

After receiving a warm welcome from land-owner and farmer Gary Simmons, his two children and extended family, she begins to believe that the FBI lead is erroneous. Throwing caution to the wind, she falls in love with Simmons, a Vietnam War veteran who appears to command the respect of the local community. A short while later, her suspicions are aroused by talk of family secrets and as more chilling events unfold, Katie is exposed to the fact that Gary is the leader of a Klan-like white supremacy group involved in heinous, often gut-wrenching, acts of racial violence.

In too deep, Katie pleads with boss and mentor Michael Carnes to release her from the assignment, but he refuses, instead turning the screws on her mixed loyalties. Ultimately, she must betray either the man she loves or the country she has sworn to protect.

####The Betrayed####
The story follows a young woman as she's put through a psychological journey under the thumb of a mysterious figure who suspects her husband of stealing millions from a crime syndicate.

####Beware, My Lovely####
A widow impulsively hires a handyman to help her with house repairs and cleaning. She quickly discovers Ryan is dangerous.  He keeps her inside the house for the entire day and his manoeuvres, paranoiac imaginings and instability make it impossible for her to summon help or to escape.

####The Big Clock####
George Stroud, editor-in-chief of "Crimeways" magazine, hides from building security inside the "big clock," which is the largest and most sophisticated clock ever built. The clock dominates the lobby of the Janoth Publications building in New York City, where Stroud works.

Thirty-six hours earlier, Stroud is eager to embark on a long-postponed honeymoon in Wheeling, West Virginia with his wife Georgette and son. His tyrannical boss Earl Janoth wants him to stay to pursue a missing-person story that Stroud has just cracked, but Stroud refuses and Janoth fires him. Stroud goes to a bar to drink and is distracted by the attentions of Janoth's glamorous mistress Pauline York, who proposes a blackmail plan against Janoth. When Stroud loses track of time and misses the train for West Virginia, Georgette angrily leaves without him. Stroud spends the evening drinking with York, and he buys a painting and a sundial.

Stroud and York go to her apartment, but York sees Janoth arriving and Stroud leaves. Janoth sees someone leaving but does not recognize Stroud in the dark. Janoth assumes that York is cheating on him, leading to a quarrel in which he strikes York with the sundial, killing her. Janoth goes to his assistant Hagen and tells him what happened, intending to surrender to the police and confess. However, Hagen convinces him that they can frame the man whom Janoth saw leaving York's apartment for the crime. Janoth decides to use the resources of "Crimeways" to find the man instead of calling the police.

Stroud has since caught up with his wife and son in West Virginia and tells her that he has been fired, but leaves out his adventures with York. Janoth calls to rehire him in order to lead the effort to find the mystery man (without any mention of York). He discloses enough details for Stroud to know that the mystery man is Stroud himself. He reluctantly agrees to return to his job and lead the manhunt, to Georgette's disappointment.

During the manhunt, Stroud must appear to lead the investigation diligently while also preventing the investigation from identifying him as the culprit. He must also secretly conduct his own investigation to prove Janoth's guilt.

Eventually York is identified by the "Crimeways" team and witnesses are found who saw her on the town with the mystery man. The witnesses are brought to the Janoth Building. One is eccentric artist Louise Patterson, who created the painting that Stroud purchased. Asked to paint a portrait of the mystery man, she produces a modernist abstract of blobs and swirls.

Stroud tries to avoid the witnesses, but one of them sees and recognizes him as the mystery man. Stroud slips away before the witness identifies him to the investigators, who now know that the mystery man is in the building but do not know his identity. All exits from the building are sealed, and the building's occupants must leave by the main door, with the witnesses watching for the mystery man. Building security men sweep the building to find the wanted man.

Stroud evades the dragnet by various maneuvers, finally hiding in the clock. He confronts Janoth and Hagen and presents evidence that appears to point to Hagen as the killer. Hagen implores Janoth to clear him, but Janoth tells him only that he will provide him with the best possible legal defense. Enraged, Hagen turns on Janoth and reveals that Janoth killed York and that he helped with the coverup. Janoth shoots Hagen and tries to escape in an elevator, but the car is stuck floors below (jammed there by Stroud earlier while evading the security men). Janoth falls down the elevator shaft to his death.

####The Big Cube####
Adriana Roman, a successful stage actress, retires to marry Charles Winthrop, a wealthy tycoon. Winthrop's daughter, Lisa, is instantly distrustful of Adriana solely because she is "the other woman" taking her father's affection.

Charles is killed in a boating accident, which also leads to Adriana suffering from a concussion. Lisa's new boyfriend Johnny Allen, a womanizing, fortune-hunting medical student, capitalizes on that distrust to persuade Lisa that her father's death was murder, a charge exacerbated by Adriana's threat—as per her late husband's instructions as laid out in his will, for which Adriana is executor—to disinherit Lisa if she marries Johnny.

Johnny conspires with Lisa to lace Adriana's prescribed sedatives with enough LSD to drive her insane. During one of the episodes, Adriana hallucinates that Johnny and Lisa are attempting to throw her over a cliffside after taking her on a drive into the country. Later, while Adriana has further LSD-induced hallucinations at home, Johnny plays pre-recorded subliminal messages to further drive her crazy, one of which instructs Adriana to leap from a window—Lisa is unaware of this scheme. As Adriana is about to jump to her probable death, Lisa saves her. While still unaware of Johnny's true intent, Lisa continues with their plan and Adriana is committed to a mental hospital, where they have Adriana declared legally insane and thus unable to carry out her obligations in Charles' will.

After their wedding, Johnny demonstrates that he doesn't really love Lisa by openly seducing other women, most notably Lisa's free-spirited best friend, Bibi. Johnny bribes Lisa to divorce him by providing a $100,000 settlement in return for keeping silent about what they did to Adriana. Lisa does divorce him, but instead of succumbing to Johnny's threats, she decides to come clean to Frederick Lansdale, a playwright friend of Adriana's who has always loved her himself, about what she and Johnny did. By this time, Adriana is suffering from amnesia, still believing that Charles is alive.

Frederick decides to write a play detailing Adriana's traumatic experiences and casts her in the lead role. He hopes that replaying her experience on stage will cure her. By the opening performance, Adriana has glimpses from her memory of what has happened, not fully realizing what those fleeting thoughts are.

By the climactic third act of the play, which details the tape-recorded subliminal messages Lisa and Johnny played during Adriana's hallucinations, Frederick decides to play the actual recordings with Lisa and Johnny's voices. This brings Adriana back to reality. She recognizes the voices and the fact that Lisa and Johnny use her real name as opposed to her character's name in the play. Lisa rushes onto the stage, admitting to Adriana what she and Johnny did. In a rage, Adriana slaps Lisa in the face.

The play and Adriana's performance are a huge hit, Adriana and Frederick are about to be married, and Lisa has reconciled with Adriana. Meanwhile, Johnny has begun taking his own LSD while being shunned by his so-called friends. He is last seen on the floor in the midst of an LSD trip.

####Black Butterfly####
Paul Lopez is an alcoholic screenwriter suffering from writer's block. His realtor, Laura, arrives with a couple, the Owens, to show them Paul's house, for sale because of Paul's financial difficulties.  Before leaving to go hunting, Paul asks Laura to meet later at a diner.  On his way, he receives a phone call advising his script cannot be submitted in its current form. Frustrated, Paul gets into an altercation with a truck driver who won't let him pass.

He meets Laura. News of the "Roadside Killer" is being broadcast. The Owens are not interested in the house but Laura is interested in his work. He confides he has not written in a long time.  Before leaving they make a dinner date.  Meanwhile, the truck driver enters the restaurant.  Upset, he attacks Paul, but is thrown out of the diner by Jack, another patron.

Driving, Paul spots Jack hitchhiking and picks him up, inviting him to stay the night in his guestroom. Later Paul explains his phone connection is out and there is no internet. He tells Jack his history as a writer. Jack asks to read one of Paul's scripts and is given an unsold script called "Under the Clock". Paul notices Jack's tattoo while he is swimming in an artificial pond near the house and Jack explains that it is a prison tattoo of a black butterfly; very rare and very hard to catch. Jack persuades Paul to quit drinking and to write a script based on the events that just happened around their encounter.

Jack reads the first draft without Paul's consent and, unsatisfied, throws it into the fire, proposing that the character of "Jack" be a person working in collusion with the truck driver. That night Jack sneaks into Paul's room and puts a knife to his throat to show him that, unlike the girl pleading with her attacker in his script, in reality the victim does not speak a word. While Jack is chopping wood the next morning, Paul looks through old newspaper clippings and evidence he has collected about young women's disappearances but quickly hides it when Jack walks in. Later, while working on the script, Paul hears a gunshot and a woman scream. He goes outside to investigate but Jack indicates that it was a bird screeching because of the gunshot.

A delivery man arrives with some goods. Jack points a shotgun at Paul and tells him not to walk too far. Once Paul gets rid of the delivery man, he argues with Jack about his twisted conduct. Attempting to leave, Paul ends up punching Jack but is wrestled to the ground and taken prisoner. Jack explains that he is paranoid about going back to prison. That night Paul sneaks out for drink but is stopped by Jack who then forces him to smash all the bottles, insisting that he is helping him. Later in the night, Paul has difficulties writing owing to Jack terrorizing him.

Laura arrives on a foggy morning asking why Paul hasn't answered her calls for days. At that moment, Paul rushes to her and tells her to give him her car keys so that they can escape Jack. Halfway down the road, Jack walks out in front of them and shoots at the car. He then forces them to push the car into the water and to come back to the house. Soon a sheriff arrives looking for a missing girl who was supposed to have been delivering a package. Paul says that he hasn't seen the girl but attempts to scream out a message, causing Jack to run out, force the sheriff into the trunk of his police vehicle and shoot him. Paul locks Jack out and barricades the windows to protect himself and Laura. When Jack pretends to drive the sheriff's car away, they attempt to run through the woods to catch the half-hourly train but Laura trips over a log and Jack catches them.

That night Jack insists that Paul has broken their agreement. Laura, surprisingly, stabs Jack in the back with a pair of sewing scissors. Paul grabs the shotgun but Jack says he is not brave enough to shoot and wrestles it from him. He takes Laura into the study and ties Paul to a chair. Paul breaks a picture and uses the broken glass to cut himself free, goes downstairs where he picks up a  shotgun and enters the study. Laura is unconscious on the floor. Paul explains to Jack that he understands what it is like to "kill" and believes Jack has been sent by God so that Paul can kill Jack and frame him as the Roadside Killer. He shoots at Jack but the bullets are blanks. Jack grabs the shotgun and knocks him unconscious.

Paul wakes next morning and finds a group of FBI agents searching his house. He sees the sheriff uninjured and the truck driver, Laura, and Jack, all wearing FBI badges. Jack explains that they have been "tracking" him for three years and plays the recording of Paul's explanation of what it is like to kill. Paul complains that any evidence collected from his house is tainted because Jack and Laura had access to the house and could have planted it and that the tape recording is just his notes for a screenplay. Jack fears that they do not have enough evidence for a conviction. He notices an excavator with dirt on it. Looking through Paul's possessions, he finds a picture of Paul's wife in a yard that shows no artificial pond. Paul is impressed and attempts to make a deal to avoid the death penalty but Jack prefers "his own ending". The film ends with Paul waking up from a dream that happened to be the events of the film, and quickly attempts to type out the dream as a new script titled "Black Butterfly".

####Blood and Money####
Jim Reed lives in an RV near the woods of Maine during the winter. He is a former Marine who served in the Vietnam War and a recovering alcoholic, being a year sober. He is divorced and his ex-wife is now dead, while his daughter died in a freak accident at a young age (which Jim is thought to have caused due to drunk driving). He is also estranged from his son. One afternoon, while changing a tire, he begins to spit up blood and passes out, indicating he may have cancer. Jim hunts "game" (deer) for meat, and goes into town for his other supplies. Having few relationships, he eats breakfast regularly at a diner where he shares a friendship with Debbie, a waitress and working class mother unhappy with her marriage and general life. One night, after going to the local bar and considering drinking, he goes to the VFW's A.A. meeting, where he meet George, an Iraq war veteran and, as Jim finds out, Debbie's husband.

One evening, while hunting, Jim shoots what he thinks is a deer, but discovers that he's accidentally shot a young woman who says to Jim "you are a dead man" before dying. Panicked, he flees the woods and goes to town's bar, where he orders shots of whiskey, then yells at the bartender when she jokes about him falling "off the wagon."  Watching the television, he discovers that the woman was part of a five-person crew that robbed $1.2 million from a casino and viciously killed three security guards and injuring twelve civilians. Realizing he left a cigarette butt near the dead woman's body, he hurries out back into the woods.

Jim gets the cigarette butt and takes the bag of money that is near the dead woman's body.  He soon runs into George, who is hunting game. Jim tries to convince George to turn back, but George refuses. The other four members from the robbery crew are near at hand, armed with semi-automatic rifles.  They search the dead woman's body, but not finding the money now notice that Jim and George are fleeing.  George is shot in the leg. While hiding behind some trees, Jim watches helplessly as George is executed when Jim, knowing nothing about the money, cannot tell them where it is.  Jim hides, moving again during dusk. He hides the money in a cave. He returns to his RV, only to find that the robbers have set it ablaze. He is shot in the shoulder and barely escapes. Jim finds a logging site and rests for the night in the office. The next day, he leaves a note for the foreman, takes a revolver and leaves, going into a section of the woods where he can't be tracked. Soon after Jim gets away from an attack by one of the robbers, whom he kills with the revolver, he discovers that the robber's machine gun has been emptied, but takes it anyway. He finds another robber at the river and hides.  He attacks the robber and gets into a brief scuffle, killing the man by knocking him into the river with the gun he took from the other robber.  However, Jim falls into the river also, losing the second robber's rifle.

Jim spends the night in the cave, burning some of the money to keep warm. He wakes up the next morning and tries to start another fire, only to discover that the lighter doesn't work. He finds Debbie's car on the road, but it won't start. Venturing further, he stumbles upon the last two robbers: a father and son. The father heads out to find Jim, but the son stays at the vehicle to urinate. Jim ambushes him and shoots him with his revolver, which causes the young man's semiautomatic to shoot and disable the pickup truck. The young man let's Jim know that the girl Jim accidentally shot was his girlfriend, and despite his plea of "being even" with Jim, Jim kills him with the revolver. Jim takes the robber's semiautomatic, but again finds that the gun has been emptied while shooting.

Without any further bullets for his revolver, Jim tracks the father and calls him out. The father captures Jim, forcing him to take him to the money at gunpoint. The father taunts Jim about his daughter's death and his divorce, and threatens to kill Jim's son after he gets the money from Jim. Jim responds by telling the father that he killed his son. The father goes into a fit of rage. As he goes to shoot Jim, Jim spits up blood into his face, and uses the distraction to tackle the man and push them both off a steep hill. The fall leaves the father incapacitated, having broken an arm and a leg. Barely alive, Jim gets up and starts walking, but he has been severely wounded from the combination of the fall and blood loss after being shot two days earlier. Jim accepts his fate, and lies peacefully on the ground. A heavy snow starts to fall, which will bury both men.

The next day, the manager at the logging site finds Jim's note at the office and drives to town, leaving it at the restaurant where Debbie works. When Debbie starts reading and sees that Jim sketched a map for her to find the cave where the money bag is hidden (together with the line "this is for you and for your kids") she apparently believes it to be a prank or otherwise worthless, so she rips it in half and throws it away. Seconds later, she comes back and recovers it from the trash can.

####Body####
Three college-age girls, Holly, Cali, and Mel, become bored when they return home for the holidays. Cali convinces the others that they should go to her uncle's house, where they can party. Mel and Holly are hesitant at first, but ultimately agree to go with Cali.

As the girls drive to the house, Holly calls her boyfriend, Ben, and invites him to join them. Cali is annoyed by the suggestion, noting that she had intended a "girl's night out." The girls finally get to the house and have a good time, but this falls apart when Holly finds photographs showing that Cali is unrelated to the owners.  Holly confronts Cali, who admits that the house does not belong to her uncle, but to a friend and that they are not technically supposed to be there. Holly and Mel insist that they leave, but before they can, Arthur, the groundskeeper, arrives and surprises them.  Thinking that the girls are thieves, Arthur tries to apprehend them but falls down the stairs and appears to die. The girls panic and decide to fabricate a story to convince the police: Arthur entered the house and attacked Holly, but fell down the stairs in the process and broke his neck. They then take steps to falsify evidence: Cali tears out a lock of Holly's hair and Holly scratches herself with Arthur's fingernails. While falsifying evidence, Holly finds out that Arthur is not actually dead but is actually paralyzed from the neck down. Cali suggests that he will die soon and recommends that they wait for a while to ensure that he is really dead.

Holly's boyfriend, Ben, eventually arrives at the house and tries to enter, still thinking that it belongs to Holly's uncle. The girls drag Arthur into a living room, and Cali answers the door and accuses Ben of cheating, hoping that he will leave. Ben forces his way into the house and confronts Holly, nearly discovering Arthur. Meanwhile, Arthur uses his teeth to pull off a tablecloth, causing a tray holding glasses to fall to the ground and shatter. However, Ben does not hear the noise and leaves without discovering the girls' plot. Cali, enraged by Arthur's actions, decides that Arthur will not die anytime soon and declares that they will have to kill him themselves. Holly and Mel are resistant to Cali's idea and insist that they will turn themselves in to the police instead. Cali appears to agree and leaves, stating that she needs to find her phone so that she can call the police. After she leaves, Holly and Mel discover that Cali had left the phone in the same room and deduce that she had instead gone to kill Arthur.

Holly and Mel rush to the living room, only to discover that Cali has already smothered Arthur with a pillow and that he is finally dead. Holly attacks Cali, but Cali easily overpowers her and ties her up. Mel and Cali leave the room, and Cali proposes killing Holly and pinning the crime on Arthur. Mel agrees, but before they can kill Holly, they discover that she has cut herself loose using a piece of broken glass. Holly and Cali fight for a while, but Holly gains the upper hand and bludgeons Cali to death with a table leg.

Holly and Mel weigh their options and decide that it is best to stick with their original story but add that Arthur had first killed Cali before falling to his death. The film concludes with a scene of police officers photographing the scene of the crime and comforting Holly and Mel, whose story they apparently believe.

####The Born Losers####
Billy Jack is introduced as an enigmatic, half-Native American Vietnam veteran who shuns society, taking refuge in the peaceful solitude of the California Central Coast mountains. His troubles begin when he descends from this unspoiled setting and drives into a small beach town named Big Rock. A minor traffic accident in which a motorist hits a motorcyclist results in a savage beating by members of the Born Losers Motorcycle Club, led by Danny. The horrified bystanders are too afraid to help or be involved in any way. Billy Jack jumps into the fray and rescues the man by himself. At this point the police arrive and arrest Billy for using a rifle to stop the fight.

The police throw Billy in jail and the judge fines him $1,000 for discharging a rifle in public (the assaulters get a $150 fine or thirty days in jail), which leads him to sell his jeep. He is treated with suspicion and hostility by the police. Meanwhile, the marauding bikers terrorize the town, rape four teenage girls, and threaten anyone slated to testify against them, with the kid brother of the leader being fingered as part of the rape. One of the girls later recants, saying she willingly gave herself to the biker gang after the gang goes to her house and turns the power off before breaking into the house to spook her. Despite the efforts of the police to get her to not recant, her mother (Jane Russell) defends her decision to not testify.

Vicky Barrington, a bikini-clad damsel-in-distress, is twice abducted and abused by the gang. The first time, she goes along with the idea of being a biker mama if she can get drugs from her bike to take as a way to sneak up on a biker to knock him out and flee. Her supposed plan of ditching her bike to flee on foot results in her being caught and raped to the point where she is put in hospital. The second time, the bikers steal a cop car and try to steal her from the hideout after she agrees to testify for the trial. Her attempted escape has her run into Billy, who takes a swing at the bikers and takes Vicky to his location on her bike; she is spooked enough to not testify. The gang comes back to his place when the two are out for lunch and steal his money. Little by little, the other victims are spooked out by the bikers and ineffective sheriffs. In the night, Billy drives out to see the bikers to talk to their leader about his stolen money. He gives them until tomorrow to get it back before leaving. The next day, the bikers confront the two at a gas station. Billy fights Gangrene and beats him before getting some of the money back and taking one of their bikes. Danny offers Vicky to serve as the sexually compliant "biker mama" the easy way rather than being there by force, which she declines. The gang comes to the hideout to ask them to see Danny by their hideout, which reveals they have kidnapped one of the rape victims. The dad tries to intervene, but he fails. Billy is hit from behind with a tire iron and beaten after trying to distract long enough for Vicky to escape, but each fail. It is then that Vicky agrees to be a biker mama to get them to let go of Billy.

At the police station, Billy is unable to get help from the police or the local residents and must return to the gang's lair to rescue Vicky by himself, particularly when the last victim recants. Billy, armed with a bolt-action rifle, captures the gang, shoots the leader (Jeremy Slate) between the eyes in cold blood, and forces some of the others to take Vicky, who's been badly beaten, to the hospital. As the police finally arrive, Billy abruptly rides away on one of the gang's motorcycles.

The anti-authority sentiment continues up to the end when a police deputy accidentally shoots Billy in the back, mistaking him for a fleeing gang member. He is later found, nearly dead, lying by the shore of a lake. He is placed on a stretcher and is flown to the hospital in a helicopter as Vicky and the sheriff give him a salute.

####Brass Target####
In Europe, days after V-E Day, General Patton orders that hoarded Nazi gold be transported to the Reichsbank in Frankfurt. But before the shipment arrives in the city, the gold train is robbed and 59 U.S. Army military policemen are killed with poison gas in a railroad tunnel. A group of corrupt American officers, led by a colonel, is behind the crime. Patton launches an investigation that initially leads to OSS major Joe De Luca, from whom the thieves took a plan from his wartime operations to steal the gold.

De Luca begins his own investigation. He first visits his old wartime commander, Colonel Mike McCauley, who is now living in a requisitioned German castle. Meanwhile, as the investigation gets closer, the corrupt American officers hire a professional assassin named Webber to kill Patton and halt the inquiry.

Soon De Luca meets Mara, a former girlfriend, who can help him find the culprits. But they first discover that Webber is on their trail and is also planning to kill Patton. They race against time across war-ravaged Europe to save the general and catch the villainous officers.

Webber, posing as an American soldier, kills General Patton in a staged traffic accident. At the precise moment when a military truck collides with Patton's car, Webber fires a rubber bullet, striking Patton and breaking his neck. De Luca tracks down the assassin and kills him with his own weapon.

####Bride 13####
A band of pirates operating from a submarine off the U.S. coast cause depredations, and thirteen young and beautiful brides from wealthy families disappear and are held for ransom for millions of dollars, requiring the assistance of the Department of Justice and the U.S. Navy.

####The Bride He Bought Online####
What starts out as a harmless online prank takes a dark turn for 17-year-old Avery Lindstrom (Anne Winters) when her best friends, Mandy Kim (Lauren Gaw) and Kaley Mack (Annalisa Cochrane), create a fake profile for an international dating website and begin to communicate with a lonely, socially inept computer programmer named John Bennett (Travis Hammer). Having lived a life of isolation and bullying, John becomes consumed by his desire for revenge after learning he was catfished by the girls. Doing some digging online, John finds that the photo of his nonexistent "girlfriend" was actually that of a deceased Filipina model, then uncovers the identities of the three girls who played him like a fool on their blog with their cruel prank.  While both Avery and Mandy feel bad for what they did to him and show some remorse, Kaley doesn't, being the "mean girl" of their school.

John decides to get back at the girls by hiring a good-looking guy about their age name Nick (Randy Blekitas). Nick is a male prostitute, and John tells him he is playing a trick on his niece, and wants him to get the three girls to fall for him and then stand them up. John finds their hangout, the Skatelab skate park, and sends Nick there to flirt with them. The plan works well, as both Kaley and Mandy express interest and give him their phone numbers.

Nick tells the girls he had just moved from Pittsburgh, and they invite him to a party that Avery is throwing. Though he fails to show, Nick then sends a text message inviting Kaley and Mandy to Skatelab (which was actually sent by John), and when they arrive, it seems as though no one is there. John kidnaps Mandy outside the hangout first, which Kaley initially thinks is a practical joke being pulled by Mandy or Avery. Kaley returns to the party and plays a practical joke on Avery's crush Trevor, pouring water on the crotch of his pants, then posts video of the prank on their blog. At this point, Avery has had enough of Kaley and ends their friendship.

Upon returning home, Kaley turns on the TV, but John uses his computer hacking skills to scare her by turning off the security system in Kaley's home. Having succeeded in panicking her, he then enters the house and kidnaps Kaley at gunpoint, taking her to the warehouse where he is holding Mandy hostage. The next day, Avery is being interviewed by an agent, as the parents of Kaley and Mandy are looking for their daughters. Avery tells the agent about Nick, and the cops mark him as a suspect. Nick spoke to the cop, straightened everything out and told him about John and he was unaware what he was doing.

Later that day, Avery is also kidnapped by John, and having now captured all three girls, he takes them to sell to a man he found online. The man is going to sell the girls for human trafficking. However, John gets scammed by the man, who only takes Kaley with him. Afterwards, John takes Mandy and Avery back to the warehouse, where Avery slashes him with a piece of glass and tries to escape, but is unsuccessful. Upon returning home, John's hooker neighbor offers to find him someone else to sell the girls to, and the pair return to the warehouse. However, instead of aiding John in his trafficking attempt, the neighbor shoots him in the arm, allowing Mandy and Avery to escape. John then retaliates by shooting his neighbor in the chest and tries to find and recapture the girls, but is unable to due to his injuries, while the girls hide in the warehouse, armed with the neighbor's gun and a cell phone. They call the police and are saved, though a defeated John commits suicide in despair before he can be arrested.

As the film ends, Avery is in the hospital, being questioned by law enforcement. The final scene shows her taking things out of Kaley's locker, while Avery's voice-over explains that Kaley was never found.

####Brigham City####
Wes Clayton (Richard Dutcher) is the town sheriff of the small, idyllic town of Brigham City, Utah. Clayton is a devout Latter-Day Saint who is one of seventeen bishops in the town.  In Clayton's entire career, there have never been any serious or heinous crimes reported in Brigham City, and generally remains optimistic about the town's friendly nature. His only staff are the witty Peg, his receptionist, Stu (Wilford Brimley), the elderly former sheriff of Brigham City, and Terry, a young and idealistic deputy.

While driving with Terry one day, they stumble upon the body of a young women who has been beaten to death in an isolated shack off the road. Since Wes has no experience in murder investigations and because he wants to keep the murder's influence out of his town, he calls in the FBI from their closest office in Salt Lake City, Utah. Among the two agents sent is Meredith, who confides to Clayton that the killer is likely someone within Brigham City, a claim Clayton doesn't believe. The subsequent investigation turns up little evidence, mostly due to Clayton's lack of resources, but tries to keep up with it as best he can.

During the night after a local parade and festival, the body of a local beauty pageant queen is found under a gazebo, raped and strangled. Shocked, Clayton decides to deputize Stu and expands his search to within Brigham City, starting with some migrant workers working for Ralph, a local contractor for Brigham City. Clayton and his team organize an effort to gather fingerprints to test against those found at the crime scenes, using beer bottles collected from a local bar. After collecting all of the bottles, Clayton leaves the team to their respective duties. While on his way back, Stu visits a convenience store and stumbles upon an apparent robbery, finding the store's clerk, a local girl named Jamie, tied up. Before he can act, Stu is shot to death by the killer, who takes Jamie with him. Clayton visits the scene and, at his wits end, decides that the killer is indeed someone within Brigham City and not an outsider. At the police station, Peg confides to Meredith that Clayton is dedicated to the job because he was involved in a fatal car accident that killed his wife and son, and put him into a coma for several days. Knowing what people can lose, Peg declares, keeps Clayton at work.

The following morning, Clayton organizes most male church members and orders them to inquire at every house and search the property for Jamie. This causes a rift within the community, especially when one house, the home to a photographer and his mother, is particularly against them searching. Forcing himself in, Clayton discovers the man's collection of pornography, but finds nothing relating him to Jamie or the murders. Later that night and disheartened at his actions, Clayton returns to the bottles gathered from the bar and resumes collecting the fingerprints off them. Among the containers tested is a thermos brought by Peg's boyfriend, but they turn up nothing.

Clayton later visits Terry's house and talks to him about the fingerprinting efforts. Clayton reveals that he tested Terry's fingerprints from the office and connects him to a criminal who was incarcerated for rape in Arizona several years ago. Clayton deduces that after "Terry" was released, he assumed the identity of a returned missionary who died in a drowning accident, and moved to Brigham City under this new persona. "Terry" admits his guilt and is revealed to be involved with multiple disappearances of other young women around the area, as well as the murders. "Terry" admits Jamie is dead, and put her body, along with the others who haven't been found, in a secluded area within a nearby forest. Preparing to arrest "Terry", Clayton is forced to kill him in front of "Terry's" wife when "Terry" draws a gun on Clayton, with his wife hysterically telling Clayton to leave.

With the investigation finally over, Clayton is emotionally drained, and during Sunday's church service, refuses to partake of the sacrament, feeling he does not deserve it. Everyone else sees this and also refuses to take the sacrament, showing that Clayton is not at fault for his actions. Clayton begins to cry at this sight and finally takes the sacrament as everyone else follows with him.

####Brotherhood####
Frank (Jon Foster) is an active member of fictional fraternity Sigma Zeta Chi, and hazes pledges for initiation by forcing them to believe they are going to rob convenience stores. Adam (Trevor Morgan) and Kevin (Lou Taylor Pucci) are pledges who go with Frank to rob the stores. Before they enter the store, another active brother gives them the money and reveals it was a break designed to test their bravery. However, due to confusion over which stores to stop pledges, Kevin is not stopped and actually tries to rob the store; Kevin is shot in the shoulder as a result. Frank finds out of the mix-up and attempts to stop Kevin but is too late. With Adam's help, he subdues the store clerk, Mike (Arlen Escarpeta), who is a high school friend of Adam. They return to the fraternity house and clear a party to take care of Kevin's wounds, but Frank orders Adam and Graham (Luke Sexton) to go back to the store, recover the security tape, and check on Mike. When returning to the store, they find that the security camera does not work, but Mike is reluctant to tell the police a lie to cover their tracks.

Scared by Mike's attitude, Adam and Graham kidnap him and take him back to the house. Frank refuses taking Kevin to the hospital, fearful that the police will learn about the night's actions, and instead calls Bean's (Jesse Steccato) medical professor to take care of Kevin. Adam tries to blackmail Mike by secretly recording an elicited confession, but Mike stops talking once he discovers the recorder. Kevin's sister Emily (Jennifer Sipes) appears and angrily threatens to call the police over an unrelated prank. As she leaves, she is involved in a car accident with Bean's professor, who suffers a concussion and is rendered unable to help Kevin. With time running out and Kevin losing blood, Frank orders Mike's torturing to ensure his cooperation. At the same time, Officer Jennings (Jeff Gibbs), who is a former member, discovers Kevin but decides to stay quiet. Adam becomes insistent in taking Kevin to the hospital and tells Frank he can get leverage on Mike after hearing money is missing from the store. Adam is able to get Mike to admit he stole the money, but Mike will only cooperate if they return the stolen money and clear his name. After a tense standoff with a nervous clerk, Adam and Frank succeed in returning the money, and Frank allows them to drop off Kevin in the hospital; they claim it is a hunting accident.

Frank says the night is a victory but Adam sees otherwise and decides to leave the fraternity, angry at their arrogance and callousness. After Adam punches Frank, the other members catch Adam and begin to beat him harshly, as Frank claims that their brotherhood and loyalty helped them get out of trouble. Another fraternity member, Jackson (Chad Halbrook), returns to the house and remembers that a pledge was locked into the trunk during the party; when they open the trunk, they discover the pledge has died from alcohol poisoning. Adam finally calls the police and tells them everything, which leads to the arrest of Frank and others.

####Bulldog Drummond at Bay####
When thieves rob his country estate, Bulldog Drummond uncovers a deadly jewel caper involving foreign agents trying to steal plans for a top-secret British aircraft.

####Bulldog Drummond Escapes####
Captain Hugh 'Bulldog' Drummond (Ray Milland) has just returned to England. As he is driving home in the dark, a young woman jumps out in front of his car. He misses Phyllis Clavering (Heather Angel), but she falls to the ground. As he tries to revive her, he hears a shout for help, then gunshots. As he goes to investigate, the woman drives away with Drummond's car. He is soon able to trace her to nearby Greystone Manor, and when he goes there to meet her, she urges him to help her get out of a desperate situation.

####Bulldog Drummond's Revenge####
The film tells the story of Captain Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond (John Howard), a British officer who, while on a drive with his friend Algy Longworth (Reginald Denny) and valet Tenny (E.E. Clive), is the first to discover a mysterious suitcase that is parachuted from an aircraft above, minutes before the plane crashes. The case is found to contain the highly explosive chemical hexanite, the plans for which have been stolen. Despite the urging of his fiancee Phyllis Claverling, Drummond is dragged into the mystery surrounding the whole affair, traveling by both train and ship to recover the formula.

####Bullitt County####
While Wayne sleeps in their parked car, Keaton and Robin don masks and sneak into a house to kidnap Gordie, who is asleep in his room. When Gordie puts up a fight, Robin knees him in the crotch and Keaton hits him with a dose of ether. The kidnappers throw the unconscious Gordie into the trunk of the car and drive off.

The next day and it is revealed that Gordie, Keaton, Robin, and Wayne are longtime best friends from college and have reunited for Gordie's bachelor party in Red River, Kentucky. They plan to visit all their favorite distilleries along the Bluegrass Bourbon Trail and find the one distillery they could never locate in college – Arcadia. When they discover their favorite distillery has been turned into a winery, Gordie wanders off to a small antique shop. There he learns the legend of the Bullitt Treasure, buried Prohibition money rumored to be hidden somewhere in Bullitt County. It is also revealed that Gordie is a recovering alcoholic, sober now for almost ten years.

Gordie convinces his friends they should ditch their plans and look for buried treasure, and the four friends set up camp deep in the woods of rural Kentucky. They spend several days digging and hanging out by the campfire, drinking and getting high and singing.

Their adventure is interrupted by an elderly couple, introduced as Mr. and Mrs. Hitchens, who invite the campers back to their nearby house for a home-cooked meal. Keaton discovers their name is actually Bullitt, and the husband accuses the friends of stealing his family's treasure. As the situation escalates, Gordie grabs a rifle off the wall and kills Mr. Bullitt, then locks Mrs. Bullitt in the chicken coop. As Gordie, Keaton, and Wayne clean the house, Robin shoots and buries Mrs. Bullitt.

Panicked and exhausted, the friends race to tear down their camp and remove all trace of their expedition, but Gordie wanders back to the house and begins drinking Mr. Bullitt's bourbon stash, lapsing into an unhinged version of himself. During the confrontation that follows, it is revealed that Keaton had, in fact, found the treasure and was keeping it from the other three. Gordie pulls the pistol on Keaton, but Robin pepper sprays him first, and in a panic, he fires off four shots. Keaton is hit in the femoral artery and crawls off into the woods. Gordie leaves the pistol and stalks off after Keaton, with Wayne in tow. Robin grabs the pistol and heads after Gordie. Keaton manages to stop Robin before she shoots Gordie, and she realizes Keaton desperately needs medical attention. She leaves the gun with Keaton and hurries off to find help. Gordie soon locates Keaton, takes the gun, leaves Keaton for dead, and begins hunting Robin.

Through a series of flashbacks from college, it is revealed that Wayne has actually been dead for ten years, having been hit by Gordie who was drunkenly driving Keaton and Robin home from a night of partying. The friends buried the corpse and swore each other to secrecy. Unable to cope, Gordie has been seeing Wayne ever since, the embodiment of his guilt.

As Robin tears through the forest, she falls down an embankment into a tangle of barbed wire and Gordie catches up to her. He attempts to shoot her, but there are no bullets in the gun. Gordie is shot in the back by Mrs. Bullitt, whose life Robin had spared the previous night. Robin is left to struggle out of the barbed wire on her own, and with her last bit of strength, she manages to find the Arcadia Distillery.

The film ends with a flashback to a month after Wayne was killed, the three friends sitting in a bar uncomfortably trying to live a normal life after what they've done. The last shot is Wayne appearing to Gordie for the first time.

####Burn####
Melinda begins the graveyard shift as an attendant at a gas station. Lonely and introverted, she doesn't object when her coworker Sheila, who has an attitude, mentions the toilets need cleaning. Later, while taking a break, she searches through her phone for photos of a police officer she has been discreetly photographing.

Sheila tries to get Melinda to do some dance moves, then films them, much to Melinda's disgust. An older repeat customer offers Sheila a pair of shoe insoles to ease her standing all night, but Sheila is creeped out, having seen the man many times before. They fit Melinda however, and she tries to make amends with the dejected man as he walks outside, to no avail.

A man named Billy parks his stolen vehicle outside and enters the store with a concealed handgun. A police officer named Liu pulls up and strikes up a conversation with Melinda. Later, as Liu purchases coffee, Melinda takes a photo of him and Sheila catches her in the act. Melinda drops her phone, breaking the screen, and Liu consoles her before being called away on an alert. Sheila bullies Melinda into showing her the multiple photos she's taken of Liu.

Upon returning from a smoke break, Melinda finds Billy engaging Sheila in a stick up. In a rather jovial manner, he demands cash and demonstrates that his gun is real by firing it when she doubts him. Billy is disappointed by the small amount of cash in the register and Melinda offers to empty the safe for him. Returning with a backpack of money, she tells Billy she wants to go with him and a struggle ensues when she refuses to hand over the backpack until he agrees. Billy wrestles the backpack from Melinda, but Sheila berates him with profanities as he leaves, angering him. He grabs her and forces her to the ground, ordering Melinda to lock the doors and go into the bathrooms.

Billy hauls Sheila to the break room and begins beating her, but Melinda sneaks up behind him and throws the pot of coffee in his face. Scalded, he accidentally fires his gun, killing Sheila before Melinda hits him over the head with a fire extinguisher, knocking him out. When he awakens, he finds himself strapped to a chair as Melinda quietly mops up the blood, having wrapped Sheila's body in a tarp.

Melinda and Billy converse and she gets him a cigarette, aspirin and water. She gives him some pills, but he realises that she has given him cheap erectile medication instead of aspirin. She proceeds to tape his eyes and mouth shut and attempts to rape him. He struggles and he is able to rip the tape holding one of his arms, knocking Melinda away. Still blind, he tries chasing after her, but ends up knocking himself out again. Melinda pockets his gun, takes the backpack and cleans up the room.

Melinda quietly unlocks the front door for a customer, who berates her for not having any coffee.  Reaching her limit, Melinda puts the gun up to her chin briefly before breaking down and sobbing, telling the customer to leave her alone. Perry, Sheila's boyfriend, then shows up to give her a ride home and finds her phone on the floor. In desperation, Melinda tells him that Sheila left with another man, but doesn't know where they went.

Once Perry leaves, Melinda steps out back to find somewhere to bury the bodies when the bikers arrive looking for Billy. She claims not to have seen him and won't let them enter the store. After an armed standoff, the bikers leave.

Realising she cannot access the surveillance data to destroy it, Melinda begins filling containers with gasoline. Liu then returns, recognizing Billy's car as stolen. He questions Melinda, who says she hasn't seen anything suspicious, but Liu calls the manager for access to the surveillance data.  Melinda fails to stop Liu from searching the store, but finding nothing, he leaves. Billy has escaped, leaving only zip ties behind.

Melinda begins dousing the store with gasoline when she hears Billy entering the store and hides. He disables the power, which locks the front doors just as Perry returns, suspicious about Sheila's disappearance. Billy escapes through the back door and barricades it with dumpsters before strangling Perry. Melinda calls Liu and admits she needs help as Billy rams Perry's car into the front doors, shattering the glass.

Backed into a corner, Melinda pleads with Billy to simply take the money and leave, but he wants revenge. He fires his gun, which ignites the gas and engulfs him in flames. Melinda grabs a fire extinguisher and escapes through the front door as Liu and other officers arrive. He helps Melinda into his car and comforts her, Melinda believing she has finally found somebody who cares.

####Capricorn One####
Capricorn One—the first crewed mission to Mars—is on the launch pad. Just before liftoff, astronauts Charles Brubaker, Peter Willis, and John Walker are suddenly removed from the spacecraft. Bewildered, they are flown to an abandoned military base in the desert. The launch proceeds on schedule, with the public unaware the spacecraft is empty.

At the base, NASA official Kelloway informs the astronauts that a faulty life-support system would have killed them in-flight. He says they must help counterfeit the televised footage during the flight to and from Mars. Another failed space mission would result in NASA's funding being cut and private contractors losing millions in profits. Kelloway threatens their families to force their cooperation.

The astronauts remain captive during the flight and appear to be filmed after landing on Mars, although they are actually inside of a makeshift TV studio at the base. At the command center, only a few officials know about the conspiracy until an alert technician, Elliot Whitter, notices that ground control receives the crew's televised transmissions before the spacecraft telemetry arrives. Whitter reports this to his supervisors, including Kelloway, but is told it is due to a faulty workstation. Whitter partially shares his concerns with a TV journalist friend, Robert Caulfield. Whitter suddenly vanishes, and when Caulfield goes to Whitter's apartment the next day, he discovers someone else living there and that all evidence of Whitter's recent life has been erased. As Caulfield investigates, several attempts are made on his life.

Upon returning to Earth, the empty spacecraft burns up during atmospheric reentry due to a faulty heat shield, which would have killed the astronauts had they been on board. The astronauts realize officials will need to kill them to keep the hoax a secret. They escape in a small jet which quickly runs out of fuel, forcing a crash-landing in the desert. They split up on foot to increase their chances of finding help and exposing the plot. Kelloway sends helicopters after them. Willis and Walker are found, while Brubaker evades capture.

Caulfield interviews Brubaker's "widow" after reviewing a televised conversation between the astronauts and their wives. Mrs. Brubaker had seemed confused when her husband mentioned their last family vacation. She explains that the family had actually gone to a different location, where a western movie was being filmed. Brubaker was intrigued by how special effects and technology made it seem real.

Caulfield believes Brubaker would never make such a mistake and may have been sending his wife a message. Caulfield goes to the deserted western movie set and is shot at. As he investigates further, federal agents break into his home, arresting him for possessing cocaine that they planted there. His exasperated boss bails Caulfield out, then fires him.

A reporter friend tells Caulfield about an abandoned military base located 300 miles (480 km) from Houston. The base is deserted, but Caulfield finds Brubaker's necklace and medallion and concludes the astronauts were there. Caulfield hires a crop-dusting pilot named Albain to search the desert. They spot and follow two helicopters to a closed isolated gas station where Brubaker is hiding. They rescue him as he attempts to escape his pursuers. The helicopters chase their plane through a canyon but crash when Albain blinds them with crop spray.

Ultimately, Caulfield and Brubaker arrive at the astronauts' memorial service, where Kelloway and Brubaker's wife see them and live network TV coverage exposes the truth.

####Car 99####
A story of the Michigan State Police and the strong sense of loyalty and duty it instills in its men. It follows the career of a newly-inducted rookie, Ross Martin, who has joined the force at the urging of his sweetheart, Mary Adams. Martin soon distinguishes himself by his bravery in the apprehension of criminals. But when the leader of a gang of bank robbers falls into his hands and then escapes, because of carelessness on Martin's part, he is suspended from the force.

####Catch a Fire####
In South Africa in 1980, Patrick Chamusso, a young, apolitical man, is accused of carrying out a terrorist attack. Afrikaner police officer Nic Vos is in charge of locating the perpetrators of a recent bomb attack against the Secunda CTL synthetic fuel refinery, which is the largest coal liquefaction plant in the world.

Patrick is unwillingly swept into Vos's investigation due to his inability to provide a satisfactory explanation for his whereabouts at the time of the bombing (he was actually having an affair with a woman not his wife). Eventually Patrick, his wife, Precious, and his family are tortured by Vos and his subordinates. Desperate, Patrick says that he is willing to confess to a crime he did not commit to protect his family. Vos concludes that Patrick is innocent, and orders his release.

Fuelled by the anger at the injustices he and his family suffered, Patrick joins Umkhonto we Sizwe, the military wing of the ANC (the African National Congress, South Africa's anti-apartheid movement) and becomes exactly what Vos had initially accused him of being. He attempts to execute a plan to attack Secunda, the oil refinery he used to work for, by first bombing its adjacent water supply facilities, and 15 minutes later triggering the main explosion within the refinery itself. This would allow the refinery's workforce to flee between the two explosions, and not be harmed. Also, the damage of the first bomb would reduce the possibility of successfully extinguishing the fire caused by the second, main explosion. Patrick succeeds in the first part, but the second bomb is discovered by Vos and deactivated.

Patrick is arrested and sentenced to 24 years in prison, after his wife goes to Vos and tells him where Patrick is, because she fell for a simple trick in which Vos left photographs of Patrick talking to a female member of the ANC. Due to her unjustified jealousy, she sells him out. He is released early due to the abolition of apartheid.

Precious, who has remarried, is waiting for him and apologizes, and Patrick forgives her and says he is sorry as well. Some time later, he sees Vos sitting out near a small body of water. He creeps over and sees that it is indeed Vos, and though a part of him wants to break Vos' neck, he decides that it is not worth it. He left Vos alone, and went on to remarry and take in over 80 orphaned children in South Africa to provide a home for kids who lost their families during the anti-apartheid struggle.

####Catch the Fair One####
Kaylee, a Native American woman who was once a boxer, is now an addict living in a shelter and working as a waitress. Some time ago, Kaylee's younger sister Weeta was kidnapped and taken into a sex trafficking ring. She is one of the hundreds of young girls who go missing every year. No one has heard of her since. Kaylee is still searching.

After finding a lead on Weeta's whereabouts, Kaylee meets the procurer of a local trafficking ring. The man takes pictures of her, drugs her, masturbates in front of her, and tells her that she will be sent to a man looking to buy a "Native girl".

Bobby is the son of the ring's kingpin, Willie. Kaylee is chloroformed, tied up, and taken by Bobby to the buyer's home. She wakes up alone in a basement and using a razor blade hidden under her tongue, she cuts herself free. Once Bobby and the buyer arrive, Bobby explains that he knows what she is trying to do and that she will never find her sister. When he leaves the room, and the buyer prepares to rape her, Kaylee pulls out the razor blade, kills the buyer, and runs away. Willie and his crew arrive to get rid of the dead body. Kaylee returns to the house and hides in Bobby's car. She sees Willie hit Bobby and order him to leave.

Bobby goes home to his wife Linda and son Junior. When he leaves the room, Kaylee enters the house and ties his family up, putting tape over their mouths to stop them from screaming. Bobby returns and a fight ensues, with Kaylee using her expertise as a boxer to gain the upper hand. After tying him up, Kaylee demands information about her sister but he refuses to answer. She stabs him in the leg, threatens to cut off Linda's ear, and begins to waterboard him. An uncooperative Bobby drowns to death.

Kaylee interrogates Linda and learns that Willie owns a train yard where he will transport the next "batch" of kidnapped girls. Kaylee arrives at the train yard with only Bobby's gun in her possession. At gunpoint, one of Willie's truck drivers tells her that the girls are in a nearby warehouse. She finds them and tells them to escape when the procurer from before spots her. He runs away and Kaylee shoots him several times. She questions him but he begins to apologize and beg instead. Kaylee walks away, letting the procurer bleed to death. Kaylee reveals that she has hidden Linda and Junior in her car. She orders Linda to take him to Willie, who lives in a mansion.

Inside the house, Linda is greeted by Willie's wife Debra, who says Willie is in the library. She mentions that Linda regularly visited them every time Bobby became aggressive. In the bathroom, Linda messages Kaylee with the correct information about where Willie is but also calls 9-1-1 before leaving. Kaylee holds Willie at gunpoint and asks about Weeta. Debra barges into the room with a gun and accidentally shoots Willie in the face. Kaylee shoots and kills Debra as Debra shoots again, hitting Kaylee in the stomach. In her final moments, Kaylee imagines what her life would have been if she had succeeded, as she envisions herself entering her comeback boxing match.

####Centigrade####
In 2002, a young American couple, Naomi and Matthew travel to the arctic mountains of Norway. After pulling over during a snowstorm, they wake up trapped in their SUV, buried underneath layers of snow and Ice. It is revealed that Naomi is eight months pregnant. They struggle to survive as the temperature drops to dangerous levels and they encounter unforeseen obstacles in their battle to stay alive. With few resources, a dwindling food supply, and nothing but time, tension, blame, and personal secrets bubble to the surface. Matthew and Naomi realize they must work together to survive in a crippling battle against the elements, hypothermia, disturbing hallucinations, and plunging temperatures.

After suffering a panic attack, Naomi goes into labor. Matt helps his wife with the delivery of their baby girl. Naomi suggests they name her Olivia (Liv for short) to which Matt agrees. Matt continues to suffer from hypothermia and frostbite while he is trying to dig through the window.

Naomi struggles to calm her newborn daughter and Matt offers his coat to help keep the baby warm. The next morning, Naomi awakens to find Matt has died from hypothermia. Days later, Naomi awakens with drops of water on her face. After checking the window, she discovers that the ice is finally soft enough to break through. She grabs her belongings, wraps up the baby, and manages to escape from the vehicle.

After hours of wandering in the wilderness, Naomi finally finds a remote hotel on the outskirts of civilization.

Before the credits roll, it is revealed that Naomi and Olivia were taken to a local hospital and treated for dehydration, hypothermia, frostbite and severe malnourishment. Experts believe they survived due to the "igloo effect", shielding them from the elements, and trapping in any heat they produced.

####The Chamber####
In April 1967, the office of Marvin Kramer, a Jewish civil rights lawyer in Indianola, Mississippi, is bombed by the Ku Klux Klan, killing Kramer's five-year-old twin sons and leading to the amputation of Kramer's legs and his later suicide. Klansman Sam Cayhall is tried for murder in the bombing, and is eventually convicted and sentenced to die in the gas chamber at the Mississippi State Penitentiary.

Twenty-nine years later, Adam Hall, a young attorney at the Chicago law firm of Kravitz and Bane, seeks assignment to the firm's pro bono representation of Cayhall in the last weeks before his scheduled execution. Adam is Cayhall's grandson, his family having since moved away from the South and changed their name, haunted and shamed by Cayhall's actions. Adam is motivated to take the case in a search for some understanding of the dark secrets of his family, which prompted the suicide of Adam's father the year Sam was sentenced to death and whose body Adam found as a child.

Adam is sent by the firm to Jackson, Mississippi to take over the case and there reconnects with his aunt Lee Bowen, an alcoholic socialite who has managed to avoid public association with her infamous father, and who warns Adam about the dangers of dredging up the past. On death row, Sam remains a brusque, bitter, unrepentant racist who brags about his participation in the Klan bombing campaign of which the Kramer bombing was a part, though he denies that any of the bombings were intended to kill. He taunts Adam for his youth, legal inexperience, anti-racism, and the suicide of his father, but he agrees to allow Adam to represent him, though he forbids Adam from seeking clemency from Mississippi Governor McAllister, who had prosecuted Sam in his last retrial and had campaigned on that prosecution in his election to Governor. Nevertheless, as he begins to argue the case, Adam is approached by the Governor through an aide, Nora Stark, who suggests that he might consider clemency if Sam provides information about unidentified co-conspirators to the bombing.

As Adam investigates, inconsistencies in the facts of the original case come to light, casting doubt on Sam's intent to kill and suggesting that he lacked the ability to make the bomb himself, and both Stark and the original FBI agent who investigated the case indicate that the bombing may have been the result of a broader conspiracy involving the Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission and White Citizens' Councils, which were active at the time of the bombing in opposition to civil rights.

Sam refuses to authorize Adam to seek access to the Sovereignty Commission's files, sealed by order of the state legislature, fearing it would expose Sam's former associates in the Klan, as well allowing the Governor to obtain useful information on political enemies, which he indicates is the Governor's real reason for seeking Sam's cooperation in unsealing the files.

Adam continues to work through the courts, filing and arguing motions for a stay of execution, including on the grounds that Sam was legally insane and unable to tell right from wrong, due to his indoctrination into the Ku Klux Klan. At the same time, Lee, faced with the unearthed ghosts of the family history and having lapsed back into full-blown alcoholism, reveals to Adam that in the early 1950s, as children, she and Adam's father had witnessed their father murder the family's African-American neighbor Joe Lincoln during a fight that had started because Adam's father, Eddie, had wrongly accused Lincoln's son of stealing a toy soldier. Eddie had blamed himself for the murder, as well as Lee, for failing to stop Sam, the guilt of which was a factor in Eddie's later suicide and Lee's alcoholism. Lee also reveals how their father had been indoctrinated into the Klan as a child, showing Adam a historic photograph of Sam as a young boy attending a Klan lynching which Adam uses in his arguments before the courts.

Adam and Nora secretly gain access to the Sovereignty Commission's sealed files, which prove a wider conspiracy to the bombing, and also indicate the participation of an accomplice.  The former FBI agent resurfaces, and reveals to Adam that the FBI had identified the accomplice, Rollie Wedge, whom the FBI had never been able to prove responsible, but who has reunited with other Klan members to commemorate the bombing on the eve of the pending execution.

Adam goes to a Klan reunion but is beaten by several members and threatened at gunpoint by Wedge. Adam's persistence, the revelation of how much Sam's hatred had destroyed his family, and his impending execution begin to affect Sam, and he softens, reconciling with Lee and expressing remorse for his actions and the effect they have had on his family. Sam forcefully rejects the Klan when Wedge visits him in prison to encourage him to remain silent, and it is revealed that Wedge was the one who had built the bomb and set it deliberately to detonate.

Ultimately, Adam's motions for a stay are denied by the courts, including the United States Supreme Court. Despite Sam's finally authorizing the release of relevant Sovereignty Commission files, the Governor refuses to grant clemency, betraying him and Adam, while nonetheless using the files as political leverage as Sam had predicted. Wedge, identified in the files, is finally arrested.

Ultimately, Sam is executed in the gas chamber, though Adam remains a confidant and advocate for his grandfather up until his execution, and he and Lee embrace at the end, in the hope that maybe the ghosts of the past are gone.

####The Chase####
Chuck Scott is a World War II veteran who is now a penniless drifter in Miami tormented by bizarre dreams. After finding a wallet and returning it to Eddie Roman, a vicious gangster, he is hired by Roman to be his driver. Roman tests his new driver, whom he nicknames Scotty, by assuming control of his car from the back seat. Scotty does not know that Roman has an accelerator in the rear passenger compartment. This bizarre trick unnerves Scotty and Roman's right-hand man Gino.

Roman reveals himself as a tough gangster by killing any competition, and even locks his wife Lorna in her room every night to control her.  Lorna goes for a drive every night, and one day she asks Scotty to take her to Havana, Cuba in exchange for $1,000. He consents and realizes that he is in love with her. When they reach Havana, they stop for a drink at a club, where Lorna is stabbed to death while in Scotty's arms. All the evidence, including the fact that Scotty had apparently purchased the knife earlier that day, points to Scotty as killer, and he realizes that he is being framed. A photograph from the club that proves Scotty's innocence is destroyed by Gino, who has come to Cuba to exact revenge against Lorna and Scotty. Scotty escapes police custody but is supposedly gunned down by Gino when he returns to the curio store from which the knife was purchased. Scotty's face is never shown during this scene.

Scotty wakes in Miami on the night that he and Lorna are supposed to abscond to Havana. He is sweating profusely and immediately takes his pills, presumably prescribed to treat his posttraumatic stress disorder from battle. Scotty remembers nothing, and visits the naval hospital to seek treatment from his doctor, Commander Davidson. Davidson urges him to try to remember why he was dressed as a driver, but Scotty is unable to do so. The two go drinking at the Florida Club.

Lorna is shocked that Scotty abruptly quit his job and departed earlier that night, and she is locked in her room after Roman discovers her writing a letter to Scotty. Roman and Gino go to the Florida Club to cool down, unknowingly sitting across the club, and behind a partition, from Scotty. Davidson realizes that the woman whom Scotty loves is Roman's wife, but by this time, Scotty remembers where he was supposed to be and leaves to find Lorna. He rescues her and they head for the port, but Gino and Roman are also heading to the port after they discover that Scotty was seen at the port buying tickets earlier that morning. With Roman using his master accelerator to push the car's speed to 100 mph, the car crashes into an oncoming train, killing both gangsters. Scotty and Lorna are now free to sail to Cuba and be together.

####The Circle####
Through her friend Annie (Karen Gillan), call center intern Mae Holland (Emma Watson) secures a customer support position at The Circle, a tech and social media company. Mae's long time friend Mercer (Ellar Coltrane) is less supportive. Mae takes the job, hoping to support her parents, particularly her father who suffers from multiple sclerosis. At a company meeting, CEO Eamon Bailey (Tom Hanks) introduces SeeChange, which uses small cameras placed anywhere to provide real-time high-quality video. Mae rises quickly in The Circle, embracing social networking and meeting Ty Lafitte (John Boyega), who displays suspicion of other, more enthusiastic employees. At an outdoor company rally emphasizing the need for accountability in politics, The Circle's Chief Operating Officer, Tom Stenton (Patton Oswalt), introduces Congresswoman Olivia Santos (Judy Reyes), who has agreed to open her daily workings to the public through SeeChange. Ty subsequently shows Mae the area containing the cloud server where all information collected by SeeChange is to be stored. Mae is embarrassed when she realizes that Ty is the creator of TrueYou, the Circle's social network, and she had not recognized him. He tells her that TrueYou has grown out of his control, and its current utilization is not what he intended.

Later, Mae's mother shows Mae a picture of a chandelier Mercer made from deer antlers. She photographs it and shares it on her Circle profile. The image attracts significant negative attention to Mercer, with people accusing him of killing the deer. Mercer confronts her at work and tells her to leave him alone. Distressed by Mercer’s reaction, Mae goes kayaking at night and the rough waters cause her kayak to capsize, requiring rescue by the Coast Guard, who were alerted to the emergency through SeeChange cameras, which recorded her acquiring the kayak and capsizing it. At the next meeting, Eamon introduces Mae to the crowd and they discuss her experience of the rescue, which moves her to become the first "Circler" to go "completely transparent", which involves wearing a small camera and exposing her life to the world 24 hours a day. However, this damages her relationships with her parents and Annie, as she accidentally exposes private aspects of their lives to the camera, and they distance themselves from her as a result.

At a board meeting, Eamon announces support from almost all 50 states for voting through Circle accounts. Mae takes it a step further, and suggests requiring every voting citizen to have a Circle account in order to do so. Eamon and Tom approve, but the suggestion upsets Annie. At the next company-wide meeting, Mae says that The Circle believes it can find anyone on the planet in under 20 minutes and introduces a program to find wanted felons in the same time frame. The program identifies an escaped child murderer within 10 minutes, which prompts the Circlers in the audience to erupt in applause. Mae uses this successful test to suggest transparency can be a force for good. Mae says that the program can find anyone, not just wanted felons, and someone suggests Mercer. Mae is initially hesitant to use the program to locate Mercer, but Tom persuades Mae to continue. Mercer is quickly located in an isolated cabin. Startled by Circle users descending upon his home, he flees in a car, though a Circle user places a small camera on his car window without his knowledge or consent. They pursue him via automobile and a flying drone, which causes Mercer to swerve uncontrollably off a bridge to his death, much to Mae's horror. Days later, Mae calls Annie, who has left The Circle and returned to Scotland, which has improved her well-being. Mae, however, finds that connection with others helps her cope with Mercer's death.

Mae returns to The Circle, despite her parents' pleas. Mae calls Ty to ask for a favor and Ty tells her something that he has discovered. At the next company-wide meeting, Mae explains how connection has helped her recover. She speaks with Eamon, and invites Tom onstage, then invites Eamon and Tom to go fully transparent. She explains that Ty has found all their email accounts and exposed them to the world, as no one should be exempt. Eamon and Tom, clearly upset, try to save face before Tom leaves the stage. Her superiors cut power to her presentation, and the stage goes dark, but the audience activates their mobile devices, illuminating Mae, who reiterates her advocacy of transparency. She later returns to kayaking, untroubled by the drones that shadow her.

####Civic Duty####
The film is about an American accountant bombarded with cable news and the media's obsession with terrorist plots in the post 9/11 world, who receives a jolt when an unattached Islamic graduate student moves in next door.

####Clockstoppers####
The NSA-funded Quantum Tech (QT) Corporation has slated a project to develop Hypertime, a technology which allows the user's molecules to speed up to the point where the world appears in standstill. NSA head Moore ends the project due to the risk of the technology being acquired by hostile powers. QT's CEO Henry Gates plans on using Hypertime to dominate the world, but these plans are now falling apart: The NSA has given him only a weekend before they collect his equipment, his lead scientist Earl Dopler cannot fix a glitch which causes subjects in Hypertime to age rapidly, and after his henchmen prevent Dopler's incognito departure at the airport, Dopler informs Gates that he sent information on Hypertime and a prototype Hypertime wristwatch to his former teacher Dr. George Gibbs in hopes he could find a fix for the glitch.

Gibbs' daughter Kelly accidentally knocks the watch into a box of his son Zak's things. George is away at a convention on applied science, having turned down Zak's appeals to go car shopping with him. Zak repeatedly bombs out with Francesca, the hot new girl at school, first with a condescending offer to show her around and then, after she allows him to help her rake leaves, by bringing a live opossum into her house. However, she is impressed when he shows her the power of the watch, which they use to pull pranks around town, and later help Zak's friend Meeker win a battle of the DJs contest. At the end of the date she gives Zak a goodnight kiss.

Gates sends henchmen, armed with Hypertime watches and solid nitrogen guns for putting other Hypertime users back into normal time, to George's house to recover the prototype. While fleeing from them, Zak discovers Dopler tied up in their van and frees him. A chase ensues, with Zak crashing the van into a river, thus disabling the watch. Zak awakens in a hospital and is charged with stealing the van. He gets the watch working just long enough to steal a policeman's uniform, allowing him to evade both the police and Gates's henchmen. QT Corporation contacts national security agencies and portrays Zak, George and Dopler as fugitives. Zak goes on the run with Francesca, locating the hotel that George is staying at. QT reaches George first and kidnaps him to replace Dopler.

Dopler captures Zak and Francesca with a garbage truck. Francesca knocks Dopler out and she and Zak interrogate Dopler. Dopler reluctantly agrees to help save George. Using components that the three of them steal from the science convention, Dopler mends the broken watch and builds their own set of nitrogen guns.

Zak and Francesca break in. After activating Hypertime, Zak swaps a nonfunctional watch onto his wrist as a backup plan. QT captures Zak and Francesca, confiscates the nonfunctional watch, and throws them in a cell with George. The NSA deadline expires, so Gates puts the whole facility into Hypertime to stop the approaching NSA agents. Using his concealed watch while in Hypertime causes Zak's particles to accelerate to the point of instability, allowing him to pass through the walls of their cell and divert Gates and his henchmen long enough for George to rig a bomb which destroys the machine generating Hypertime. Gates tries to kill Francesca, Zak and George, but Dopler arrives and shoots Gates with nitrogen. The NSA agents take the watches to keep them safe, and arrest Gates and his henchmen, and the charges against Zak are dropped.

Dopler uses the machine he was building to reverse the aging effects of Hypertime, but it inadvertently changes him back into a teenager, meaning he will have to live with the Gibbs family for a few years. George lets Zak get the car he wanted. As Zak speeds off in his car with Kelly, Francesca, and Dopler, the police officer and detective from earlier drive after them to try to stop Zak for speeding. However, it is revealed that Zak has not returned the watch and continues to have fun in Hypertime.

####The Code Conspiracy####
A physics professor (David Warner) is removed from his post because his classroom teaching methods are considered to be too philosophical. He leaves for Israel to work on a project combining science with his love of philosophy.

Six years later he returns to an America now governed by an administration that has brought in strong anti-privacy laws.  He is carrying a disc containing the fruits of his research to give to a former student, John Davis (Jim Fitzpatrick), when black ops agents track him down with a view to obtaining the disc and killing him.  He manages to hide the disc and make a phone call to John before the agents catch up with him.  In subsequent police interviews with Davis he is able to assure them he did not know what was going on, a situation that changes after he listens to his phone messages.

The professor had been working on a code in Israel based on the Pentateuch, the first five books in the Bible, and had found answers to some of life's most basic questions. The formula he has discovered can also solve problems yet to be formulated.  John's software company is pleased with the research since it helps them with their current anti-government privacy project: keyless encryption.  Before he is able to complete the sale and distribution of the software to a major company, government agents raid his home and company, confiscating all his computers, files and computer programs.  While trying to leave the area with his family and move to a more congenial environment, his wife and children are killed in a plane crash.  In shock, he turns to friends who help him to escape undetected.  Not only American agents but the Mossad give chase as he flees to the Bahamas.

####Coffin####
Jack Samms' evening started normal enough. But then the mysterious masked stranger, known as Trick, pays him a visit. Within minutes, Jack is faced with a ticking clock after Trick reveals that Jack's estranged wife and her lover are buried in a wooden box - and will be out of oxygen in 75 minutes. With two cops hot on his trail, Jack must try to avoid being framed for his wife's murder while under Trick's constant watch. When a pay-off to Trick goes wrong, Jack must engage in a dangerous game of cat and mouse with the masked stranger in order to save his wife... and himself.

####Cold Steel####
It begins when detective Johnny Modine (Brad Davis) gets his Christmas celebration spoiled with the news about his father's death, which is the work of psychopathic junkies who slashed the old man to death while robbing his store. Johnny is determined to find the person responsible and get his revenge, even if it means the end of his police career.

Johnny doesn't know that the murder was actually part of a sinister revenge plot directed against him. Leader of those murderous thugs is his former friend and colleague Isaac (Jonathan Banks) who blames Johnny for the incident that left him crippled many years ago. But before he gets to Isaac, Johnny must overcome many obstacles, including Kathy (Sharon Stone), an attractive but mysterious woman with a hidden agenda.

####Compliance####
Sandra, manager of a ChickWich fast food restaurant, receives a call from someone identifying himself as Officer Daniels. He claims to be in contact with the regional manager about a customer who had money allegedly stolen by an employee that day. Daniels says that he will remain on the phone while Sandra detains the employee until the police arrive. Sandra identifies Becky as the suspect based on the description; Daniels confirms the name.

Sandra brings Becky to the restaurant office. Becky denies the theft. At Daniels' behest, Sandra searches Becky's pockets and purse and finds nothing. Telling her that the alternative is to have Becky go to jail, Daniels has her strip-search Becky in the presence of another employee, Marti. Daniels tells Sandra that he and other officers are searching Becky's home on suspicion that her brother is involved in drugs, and that Becky may be involved. He has Sandra put Becky's clothes into a bag and take it to her car for inspection by the police.

Sandra insists she resume managing the restaurant as it is busy. After Daniels stipulates that a male employee watch Becky for "security reasons", another employee, Kevin, is brought in, but questions Daniels' instructions and leaves. Sandra's fiancé Van takes over; under pressure from Daniels over the beers he drank before driving to the restaurant, he has Becky perform nude jumping jacks, ostensibly to shake loose any contraband concealed in her body. After Becky protests, Daniels has Van spank her. Eventually, Becky is coerced into performing oral sex on Van. Van leaves with guilt and is replaced by the custodian, Harold, who is outraged by Daniels' instructions. Harold tells Sandra about Daniels' orders; she calls the regional manager, who tells her he has no idea about any investigation.

The police discover that a similar incident happened elsewhere. Daniels is identified by closed circuit recordings and arrested; he is a family man working as a telemarketer. Becky meets an attorney to discuss options for suing Sandra. Sandra, now unemployed and no longer seeing Van, tells a journalist she is a blameless victim.

####Confess####
Terroll Lessor, a computer genius in an unpleasant job, decides to use his skills against reprehensible parts of society. Along with his girlfriend, played by Ali Larter, he gains embarrassing information on people whom he believes to be immoral and exposes this information to the public. This garners the attention of police and people who wish him harm, and results in copy-cat crimes by others who admire him.

####The Crash####
In the not-so-distant future, a team of white-collar criminals is enlisted by the federal government of the United States to thwart a cyberattack that threatens to bankrupt the United States of America.

####Crimes of the Past####
Retired CIA Agent Thomas Sparrow (David Rasche) retires and returns home to Seattle to try to reconnect with his long-lost daughter (Elisabeth Röhm), but a former colleague (Eric Roberts) complicates things by coming back into Sparrow's life.

####Cuck####
Ronnie, a loner who lives with his possessive mother, is deemed unfit for military service due to his history of mental instability and petty crime. Retreating into the world of extremist internet groups, he creates a vlog channel, from which he decries what he describes as the downfall of "real America". Meanwhile, prompted by sexual frustration, he agrees to play the role of cuckold in a couple's homemade amateur pornography. He buys an unregistered handgun and begins to spend time at firing ranges. He meets his online idol, a charismatic leader of the alt-right. However, when his identity as a "cuck" emerges, his macho persona is destroyed. Facing online shaming, Ronnie takes solace in his gun, which he regards as the only symbol of masculinity he has left.

####Daddy's Gone A-Hunting####
Cathy Palmer (White), a young British woman, comes to San Francisco to live. There she meets Kenneth Daly (Hylands), a relationship develops and she becomes pregnant, but when Cathy sees another side of Kenneth's personality, she elects to break off their engagement and abort the pregnancy.

Sometime later, Cathy meets and marries Jack Byrnes (Burke), who has political ambitions. Kenneth, however, continues to be disturbed by the way Cathy ended their romance, and soon comes back into her life. After Cathy gives birth to Jack's baby, Kenneth demands that she kill the child as retribution for the one she aborted earlier.

####Dangerous Lies####
Katie and Adam are a young married couple struggling to pay their bills. Katie works as a waitress while Adam is going to school. One night, an attempted robbery takes place in the diner where Katie works. Adam manages to fight off the robbers. Katie finds another job as a caregiver for Leonard, an elderly wealthy man who grows close to her. After she tells him about her financial struggles, Leonard insists on helping her out with money, but Katie asks him to give Adam a job instead as his gardener, which he does.

One day, a real estate agent, Hayden, appears and expresses interest in buying the house. When Katie tells him it's not for sale, Hayden starts to watch them closely. Soon after, Leonard writes Katie a $7,000 check. Katie does not want to accept it, but Adam convinces her to use the check to pay the bills that are due and pay back Leonard the rest.

The next day, Katie and Adam arrive at Leonard's home to find him dead, leaving Katie devastated. The couple finds a large amount of cash in a trunk and, after a small dispute, agrees to keep it without notifying the police. At Leonard's funeral, they learn from his lawyer, Julia, that Leonard left Katie his estate and all his possessions.

Katie and Adam move into Leonard's house, but soon they are pursued by the highly motivated Hayden, who threatens Katie. At the same time, Detective Chesler becomes suspicious of Adam, and starts to investigate Leonard’s death and the robbery at the diner.

After talking to the detective, Katie becomes suspicious of Adam.  Katie, wanting to confront him, looks for him at the house.  She searches the entire property and ends up finding a secret room in a shed.  She then finds Ethan (Leonard's previous gardener) long dead of a gunshot wound with a bag of diamonds. Katie and Adam realize that Ethan was Hayden’s partner in crime, and Hayden killed him to get his share of the diamonds. Ethan, mortally wounded, had fled to Leonard’s house, where he died. Hayden knows the diamonds are hidden somewhere in the house and is eager to find them. They decide to flee together. While Adam is getting ready, Hayden shows up and holds Katie at gunpoint, asking for the diamonds.

Hayden and Adam exchange gunfire, and both are killed. Julia arrives, and Katie tells her that Hayden was the one who killed Leonard with an overdose of his medication. Julia reaches for Hayden's gun and holds Katie at gunpoint, revealing that she is part of the plot. She demands the diamonds, but Katie tells her Adam hid them somewhere, and she doesn't know where. Detective Chesler arrives in time and shoots Julia dead.

Four months later, Detective Chesler talks to a pregnant Katie about how they searched for the diamonds in the house but never found them. In the last shot, Katie turns the sprinklers on and leaves the garden. The water moves the soil aside, and the diamonds are shown to be buried under a tree, something Adam had hinted at as he died.

####Darc####
To bring down a global human trafficking ring, an Interpol agent recruits the help of a brutal criminal with inside knowledge of the yakuza.

####Dark Honeymoon####
After a brief courtship, a man marries an enchanting woman, and then things begin to go terribly wrong. During their honeymoon on the foggy Oregon coast, he discovers her shocking secrets as those around them begin to die horrible and violent deaths, one by one. He soon learns that you really don't know someone until you marry them.

####The Dark Mirror####
Dr. Frank Peralta is stabbed to death in his apartment one night. The detective on the case, Lt. Stevenson, quickly finds two witnesses putting Peralta's girlfriend, Terry Collins, at the scene. However, when Stevenson finds and questions Terry, she has an iron-clad alibi, and several witnesses of her own. It is revealed that Terry has an identical twin sister, Ruth, and the pair share a job and routinely switch places for their own benefit. Stevenson and the district attorney are unable to prosecute since the twins refuse to confirm which of them has the alibi.

Unable to accept the "perfect crime", Lt. Stevenson asks Dr. Scott Elliot for help. Scott is an expert on twin study, and has been routinely encountering the Collinses at their shared workplace but does not know which is which. As a front, Scott asks Terry and Ruth if he can study them individually as part of his research. The twins accept, though Ruth is worried that Scott might find out that Terry was at Peralta's apartment the night of the murder. However, Terry is attracted to Scott and insists that they can keep the secret for the sake of seeing him. She also comforts Ruth, reminding her that she was only at Peralta's apartment but didn't kill him.

From Scott's psychological tests and by spending time with them, he discovers that Ruth is kind and loving, while Terry is highly intelligent and insane, and has been manipulating Ruth almost their entire lives. Terry is jealous that people keep preferring Ruth over her, and is enraged yet again when Scott falls in love with Ruth instead of her. Terry starts methodically gaslighting Ruth, making her believe that she's hallucinating and going insane, in the hopes of pushing her to suicide.

Scott reports his findings to Stevenson, who advises him to warn Ruth immediately. That night, Scott arranges to meet with Ruth at his apartment, but Terry intercepts the message. Terry leaves Ruth alone in their apartment and sets a music box in a hidden place to encourage Ruth to believe she's developing the madness erroneously believed always to afflict one of two twins. Terry goes to meet Scott, and he explains everything he's learned about the twins' relationship and Terry’s intense rivalry with her innocent sister, knowing all along that he's speaking to Terry, not to Ruth. Scott also believes that Peralta, who didn't know they were twins, wooed Terry but was really in love with Ruth, and Terry killed him for it. When Scott receives a call from the Lieutenant Stevenson, Terry considers stabbing him in the back with the nearby scissors. Stevenson is at the twins' apartment, having gone there on a hunch, and says he's found Ruth dead.

Scott and Terry go to the sisters' apartment, where Terry "confesses" to Stevenson that her "sister" killed Peralta and committed suicide out of guilt. Terry confirms all of Scott's psychological test results, but she herself claims to be Ruth, and says that she's relieved that "Terry” is dead. Just then Ruth enters the room, alive and well, which causes Terry angrily to throw her glass at a mirror reflecting the real Ruth's image. Stevenson did visit Ruth on a hunch but only found her in distress, not dead; he then faked the 'phone call to trap Terry, who is arrested.
Scott and Ruth are free to enjoy their future together.

####Dark Purpose####
American secretary Karen Williams travels to Italy with her employer, art appraiser Raymond Fountaine, to assess the valuable collection of Count Paolo Barbarelli at his villa overlooking the sea.

The count lives there with Cora, a young woman suffering from memory loss, whom he claims to have taken in like a daughter after her skiing accident. Karen falls in love with the count, but Cora wants her gone. She later confides to Karen that she is not Paolo's daughter but his wife. He is slowly poisoning her so he ultimately can inherit her family's money, Cora says, but Karen isn't sure whether to believe her story.

Cora is found dead. The police believe it to be a suicide, but evidence at the scene leads Karen to believe that Paolo was indeed responsible for the young woman's death. It leads to a confrontation and violent struggle. A vicious watchdog tries to protect his master, but instead knocks Paolo into a fountain, where he drowns.

####Dark Was the Night####
In the forest near the small isolated town of Maiden Woods a team of loggers go inexplicably missing. Unable to contact them the Foreman goes searching for them, finding only a logger's severed arm. He is then violently killed in his truck by an unseen creature.

Later in town Sheriff Paul Shields and his new deputy from New York, Donny Saunders, speak to farmer Ron who insists one of his valuable horses has been stolen, though without evidence of theft it is assumed the horse merely escaped through an open gate. Paul then leaves to pick up his son Adam from his wife Susan who no longer lives with him after the accidental death of their other son, Tim. That night Adam sees a creature in the back yard and when Paul investigates he hears but does not see a large creature in the trees.

The next morning Paul finds large footprints in the snow around his house that appear to come from an animal with hooves that walks on two legs. Donny informs him the footprints are around everybody's houses in the entire town. Paul and Donny follow the footprints into the woods where they also find large claw marks on the trees where the footprints disappear. After hearing from park rangers that no known animal with hooves could walk such a distance on two legs Paul assumes the whole thing is a prank. Paul later hears from the town priest that his dog and a lot of other animals have gone missing. Paul then goes to a local store where Ron's daughter Clair and several hunters confront him with their fears about old Indian stories of creatures living in the woods, though Paul dismisses this. Earl, another hunter, informs Paul that even though it is hunting season, all the deer and other forest animals have disappeared, meaning a large new predator may be in the area.

As Paul drives Adam home they both see a very large creature in the back yard, but when Paul investigates, all he finds is a bridle up a tree that he confirms is from Ron's missing horse. The next day Paul and Susan meet Adam's teacher to talk about how Adam is not dealing with his brother's death, during which Susan becomes angry and upset. Paul meets Donny where they both witness a very large flock of birds in the sky flying south when they should be flying north. Susan tells Donny how Paul was watching their son Tim when he fell, hit his head and died and how he still blames himself even though she doesn't. That night Paul is called to Ron's farm where he sees the creature attempt to enter the horses stables before it flees, leaving behind more footprints showing the hoof is split into 3 sections, even though most cloven hoofed animals only have 2. That night Paul discovers a dead deer that had been mauled in the road but before he can move it the creature suddenly appears and takes the body with it. Donny wonders if it is not simply a forest predator that had not yet been discovered, similar to large fish species thought to be extinct that actually still exist deep in the ocean.

The next day three hunters are attacked by the creature in the woods. Two are killed and one makes it back to town. The bodies of the two dead hunters are later found hidden high in the trees. Paul bans any more hunters from entering the forest and orders everybody in town to stay indoors at night. He also reports the two deaths and calls in 2 dozen park rangers to hunt and kill the creature within 24 hours. That night a heavy snow storm hits the surrounding area and most of the town evacuates. Paul theorizes that the creature had been pushed from its territory by the logging company and is looking for a new home and sees humans as a threat. One of the hunters shows Paul film footage of a large creature walking on two legs. As the storm gets worse the creature breaks into Paul's house, where Paul barricades himself and Adam in the bathroom until the arrival of Donny scares it away.

Paul gathers everybody who did not evacuate into the church, saying it is the safest place for everybody to stay until the park rangers arrive in the morning to hunt and kill the creature. However, the creature attacks the church and Susan manages to motivate Paul into forgiving himself for Tim's death. As the creature breaks into the church Paul leads everybody into the church's basement storm shelter. He tasks the hunters to guard the door then takes Donny to kill the creature.

As they follow the creature through the church Paul and Donny split up. Donny is attacked in the kitchen but manages to shoot the creature with his shotgun. Paul follows the creature only to be attacked and drop his rifle. He flees back into the main hall and hides beneath the pews. However, the creature finds him and he shoots it with his pistol before it disappears. Paul realises it can climb as it suddenly drops down from the ceiling. As it rushes towards him Paul shoots it once again but drops his pistol as it overpowers him. He instead draws his hunting knife and stabs the creature to death.

Returning to the basement Paul tells everybody the creature is dead and leads them back into the church. However, as Donny examines the creature's body he realises he had shot it in the shoulder with his shotgun, yet the wound was suspiciously missing. Paul and Donny suddenly realise there is more than one creature in the church, and outside dozens of creatures are seen swarming over the church roof. One creature lunges at the camera and the screen goes black.

####Dawn Patrol####
John (Scott Eastwood) is a surfer who, after avenging his brother's murder, discovers he has killed the wrong man and joins the Marine Corps to escape his past. This will come to haunt him even here, in a distant desert, where the protagonist will have to survive a sniper unleashed on his trail.

####Dead Water####
Married couple Vivian and David Cooper are talking about their vacation being something good for them three weeks prior leading up to. David Cooper a retired marine and his brother's best friend John are at the bar talking about what is going on in David's life at the time. When they overhear a few guys insulting his wife who was reporting the news on TV. After fighting the two men David and John leave the bar. John invites David who they refer to as Coop and his wife on a trip to retrieve his paid for yacht in the virgin islands. John mentions to David that he needs to talk to a therapist about what is happening to him and he shrugs it off with no concern on top of putting his daily dose of pills in the sink. Vivian returns home from work and talks about how John called her about the vacation and suggests that they go and need this time. Later that night David tells Vivian that they can go on the trip. Arriving at the boat John talks to the couple about touring the boat before they leave the dock.

Suspect at Johns advances at Vivian he pays attention to John a little closer. They talk about David's brother and the memories. John leaves the couple to go for a smoke and David mentions that John seems off. Things get tensed with the guy because John continually asking about the war. John apologizes after David tells him that he doesn't like to talk about it. Vivian goes to find rum in John's room and finds a picture of her and John with David torn off the picture.

John starts to reveal disturbing behavior along with David. While David and John are swimming; there is a guy by the name of Jack covering his bleeding eye sees their boat across the water.

David finds the picture that Vivian found earlier. He suggested that they play truth or dare and John ask him how many people has he killed.
Coop decided that he wanted to ask his question or make his request to the two. He suggested that Vivian and John kiss. They both declined. Walking up from the night they had Coop finds John in the command room and is told the boat stop working. David decides to go look for help and he runs into Jack. After being shot by Jack; Coop is laying in the water and Jack heads to Johns boat. Back at the boat John confesses his love for Vivian but she declines his advances. Jack comes to Johns boat saying that he can help with a fee given. John agrees.

Vivian continues to call David's phone looking for him and she realizes that Jack has her husband phone. So Jack takes Vivian inside the yacht and drives off leaving John in Jacks boat. Finding John on the boat and telling  David that Jack killed and took Vivian so David tries to hotwire the boat and he goes after them.

####Deadline####
Young newspaper reporter Matt Harper (Steve Talley) is dispatched from Nashville to cover the murder of the police chief of Amos, Alabama.  There he meets Trey Hall (Lauren Jenkins), a 21-year-old "blue blood" who lives on her family's hunting plantation.  She wants Matt to investigate the nearly 20-year-old unsolved killing of a black teenager, Wallace Sampson (Romonte Hamer).  Matt believes solving the murder will jump-start his career, and he begins to investigate. Being distracted, he forgets an appointment related to his upcoming wedding, which causes his fiancée Delana Calhoun (Anna Felix) to call off their engagement.

Matt asks his editor, Walker Burns (Jeremy Childs), to let him look into the murder.  While Burns notes that Matt is already on thin ice with the publisher (David Ditmore) for a lack of productivity, Burns allows Matt some time to investigate, on the condition that politically incorrect reporter Ronnie Bullock (Eric Roberts) accompany him.

Matt and Ronnie discover old police files that point to a Klansman who operated 'The Store' near where the shooting occurred. The day before Wallace's murder, someone had attempted to firebomb 'The Store' during a civil rights protest.  Just as the two reporters are making headway, Matt's ex-fiancée Delana tells Matt his father, Lucas (J.D. Souther), has cancer.  Matt and Delana visit Matt's father, but later fight because Matt hasn't told his father about the broken engagement and because Matt is critical of his ill father.

Matt and Bullock continue investigating without the publisher's knowledge.  One of their sources, Wallace's mother Mary Pell Sampson (Jackie Welch), is reluctant to talk to them, and Matt begs Delana to help him in speaking to the woman. Delana reluctantly agrees, not for Matt, but because she dislikes someone getting away with murder.  Mary Pell tells Delana that 'The Store' was firebombed because it was a front for prostitution.

The publisher discovers that Matt and Bullock are continuing to work on the story against his orders. After a public confrontation in which Matt challenges the publisher, Matt seeks his father's help.  Using his father's advice, Matt and Bullock subvert the publisher and renew the investigation. They ask Delana to help with the interview of Wallace's girlfriend Vanessa (Maisha Dyson), and Delana again becomes part of the team.  Vanessa reveals a crucial clue about someone running from the scene.  Matt and Bullock discover that Judge Buchanan (Tommy Cresswell) owned the store that was firebombed.

Somebody in a car tries to run Delana off the road when she leaves Amos, but she escapes. Matt realizes how much Delana means to him and rushes to comfort her. He delivers a full and complete apology for his self-centered behavior.

Matt and Bullock track down the man running from the scene, Billy ‘Possum’ Baker (Clay Brocker). They learn he's been an anti-Klan informer and is still undercover.   Baker is now dying, and he is no longer worried about the consequences of coming forward with the truth.

Just as they publish the story, Matt's father dies. Matt arrives in time to make his peace and to hear the words of approval he's always craved. When Matt has to choose between doing the right thing and doing the professional thing, he makes the right choice, and Delana falls back in love with him.

Matt and Bullock's story leads to indictments. Evidence proves the same gun that killed Wallace Sampson also killed the police chief. The reporters foil an attempt on Possum's life the night before a hearing where everything is made clear and Mary Pell reveals a final shocking truth about the killer that leaves everyone gasping.

The reporters receive a prize for investigative reporting. The town of Amos is transformed. Matt Harper has become a reporter with a conscience and someone who finally deserves Delana.

####The Deadly Hunt####
A married couple are chased by two hunters.

####Deadly Relations####
Leonard Fagot has four daughters with whom he is obsessed. He lets them know how he feels about the men they date. And if he disapproves of them, he probably will have them killed to get them out of his daughters' life.

####Deadman Standing####
Told primarily via flashbacks, Rosie, a local brothel owner, meets a drifter, she proceeds to uncover her version of the events that transpired in Newton two years earlier.

####Deepwater Horizon####
See also|Deepwater Horizon explosion
On April 20, 2010, "Deepwater Horizon", an oil drilling rig operated by private contractor Transocean, is set to complete drilling off the southern coast of Louisiana on behalf of BP. Chief Electronics Technician Michael "Mike" Williams and Offshore Installation Manager James "Mr. Jimmy" Harrell are surprised to learn that the workers assigned to test the integrity of recently completed cement work are being sent home early, without conducting a cement bond log (CBL), at the insistence of BP managers Donald Vidrine and Robert Kaluza. While Mike prepares the drilling team, including Caleb Holloway, Shane Roshto and Adam Weise. Harrell meets with Vidrine and persuades him to conduct a negative pressure test, which indicates the cement has not properly sealed the well from the high-pressure reservoir. Vidrine disputes the test finding and orders a second test. After concluding the second test was a success, Vidrine pressures senior toolpusher Jason Anderson to run more tests and orders the rig to remove the drilling mud and prepare the rig to move to its next job.

At first, the operation goes smoothly, but the cement job eventually fails completely, triggering a massive blowout that overpowers and kills Weise, Roshto and majority of the other drill team members. Holloway and Vidrine manage to evacuate the floor in time.

A chain of equipment malfunctions, coupled with a failed attempt to seal the well, ignites the oil, killing Anderson and the other toolpushers. Andrea Fleytas, the rig's Dynamic Position Operator, tries to alert the Coast Guard, only to be overruled by her superior, Captain Curt Kuchta, on the grounds that the rig is not in any imminent danger, at least until the rig erupts in flames, then Kuchta sends out his own call for help. With oil now spewing into the ocean, an oil-covered pelican flies into the bridge of a nearby vessel, the "Damon Bankston", which was there to collect the drilling mud from the well, and dies; the vessel heads towards the rig just as the workers begin a frantic evacuation, sending out a rescue team after seeing the rig burst into flames. Harrell, still alive, although seriously injured in the explosion, is rescued by Mike and assumes control of the situation, only to discover that the rig cannot be saved. Aaron Dale Burkeen, a close friend of Mike's, sacrifices himself to keep a burning crane from collapsing onto the surviving crew, while Mike and Caleb are able to rescue Vidrine and Kaluza and get them to safety.

As night falls and the burning oil lights up the area, the Coast Guard becomes aware of the incident and sends ships and aircraft to rescue the survivors, who are being ferried in the lifeboats to the "Damon Bankston" as it was already on scene to assist with the evacuation and rescue. With all the lifeboats full, Mike locates the emergency life raft, but it becomes separated from the rig before he and Andrea can board, causing the latter to suffer a panic attack. Just as the oil in the well itself ignites and destroys the rig, the two jump into the water and are picked up by rescuers, who then ferry them to the "Damon Bankston", where the surviving crew mourn their lost crewmen and say the Lord's Prayer.

Returned home, the workers reunite with their families in a hotel lobby; during which the parents of one of the missing crew members accost Mike, resulting in him having a panic attack. Luckily, Mike's family rush in to comfort him.

The film ends with a series of clips showing the aftermath of the disaster, including testimony from the real-life Mike Williams and the revelation that Donald Vidrine and Robert Kaluza were the only two people prosecuted for their actions; both were charged with eleven counts of manslaughter. By 2015 these charges were dismissed.  Pictures appear of the eleven men who lost their lives before the credits.  The movie postscript reads: "The blowout lasted for 87 days, spilling an estimated 210 million gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. It was the worst oil disaster in U.S. history."

####Desperate Measures####
San Francisco police officer and widowed father Frank Conner is in a frantic search for a compatible bone marrow donor for his leukemia-stricken son, Matt. In desperation, he breaks into FBI headquarters and finds a perfect match. Unfortunately, it is Peter McCabe, a sociopath who is serving life in prison for several murders. During his time in prison, the brutal, cunning McCabe has attempted escape and killed several guards and fellow prisoners, and must be kept in multiple restraints when out of the SHU in the supermax at Pelican Bay State Prison.

McCabe initially shows little interest in helping Conner, but later finds an opportunity to turn the situation to his advantage and devises a plot to escape. Biding his time, McCabe plays chess against a computer, easily defeating the program, and expresses the need for a challenge akin to Garry Kasparov or Deep Blue. Meanwhile, Conner, along with police captain Cassidy and Matt's physician, Dr. Hawkins, prepare for McCabe to be transferred to the hospital for the organ transplant.

At the hospital, McCabe is given a sedative. With the aid of a counteracting drug he had obtained from a fellow inmate, McCabe slips out of his restraints, attacks the guards and attempts to escape. Conner and a fellow officer corner him, but McCabe holds a scalpel to Hawkins' throat, prompting Conner to drop his gun. The other officer gets the drop on McCabe, but Hawkins warns the police that if he dies, his bone marrow becomes useless. Conner stands in the way of the other officer; McCabe takes his gun and shoots the officer.

After hearing what happened, Cassidy immediately orders Conner off the case and removed from the scene. Conner breaks free to search the hospital for McCabe on his own. McCabe causes an explosion with propane tanks, seizes control of the hospital's adjacent wing, holds guards hostage and orders a lockdown of the building.

Conner and Hawkins make their way to McCabe and convince him to let them inside so that Hawkins can attend to Matt. As McCabe watches Conner on the security cameras, he realizes that his nemesis is a truly devoted father, and develops a grudging respect for him. Conner intervenes when McCabe is about to ambush Cassidy and his SWAT team with a set of tanks of cyclopropane. Cassidy is furious that Conner continues to aid an escaped convict, while McCabe is angry that Conner foiled his plan. He kidnaps Matt and descends to the sub-levels of the building.

Matt tries to wound McCabe to give his father a better chance; impressed, McCabe spares Matt and leaves him at the hospital for Conner to find. McCabe then escapes into San Francisco, where he steals a car. Conner chases McCabe to a bridge, still needing him captured alive. Cassidy and his men arrive in a helicopter and a sniper opens fire. Conner again shields McCabe and is wounded in the arm. McCabe attempts to flee, but Conner is determined not to let him go. Conner wounds McCabe, sending him off the bridge and into the bay. Conner then dives in and saves him.

Back in the hospital, a wounded McCabe agrees to the transplant, which saves Matt's life. Even though his career is clearly over, Conner is overjoyed that his son will live. McCabe is informed by a guard that the surgery went well. As the bed reclines upwards and McCabe looks at the guard menacingly, the guard suddenly realizes that his gun is gone. McCabe holds it over the guard and asks, "What kind of car do you have?".

####The Devil Thumbs a Ride####
Steve Morgan (Tierney) is a charming sociopath who has just robbed and killed a cinema cashier. Seeking to escape, he hitches a ride to Los Angeles with unsuspecting Jimmy 'Fergie' Ferguson (North). Part way the pair stops at a gas station and pick up two women. Encountering a roadblock, Morgan persuades the party to spend the night at an unoccupied beach house. The police close in after Morgan killed one of the women.

####The Devil to Pay####
The Devil to Pay’ opens at a small house on an Appalachian mountain where Lemon Cassidy lives with her son, Coy. Her husband, Tarlee, works for a local landlady Tommy Runion. However, Tarlee is missing for a few days, and Lemon assumes he has gone on one of his benders. As a result, she and Coy are left alone to do the house chores. One day, two men who work for Tommy arrive at Lemon’s house. The men reveal that Tommy wants to meet with Lemon. However, they do not allow her to take Coy along. Instead, the men remain at Lemon’s house, watching over Coy.
Lemon walks to Tommy’s house and meets the Runion family matriarch. Tommy explains to Lemon that Tarlee was caught stealing from her. However, Tommy gave Tarlee a chance to repay his debt. She asked him to perform a task for her in exchange for writing off the debt. Nonetheless, Tarlee has gone missing, and Tommy assumes he fled with her money. Therefore, she takes Coy hostage and forces Lemon to complete the task. Lemon has no choice but to work for Tommy as her son’s life is in danger.
Lemon sets out to search for Tarlee. However, she first stops at Grady’s house. He asks her to deliver a jar of sulfuric acid to a religious cult that lives on the outskirts. After providing the jar, Lemon realizes that the cult uses it for torture. Later, Lemon tracks down Tarlee’s truck and discovers that his hands were chopped off. She finds a pocket watch in the glove compartment belonging to Peter Knox, Tommy’s rival landowner. Lemon collects the pocket watch and hands it over to Tommy. However, she reveals that Tarlee is likely dead from bleeding out.

Tommy explains that Tarlee stole the wrong watch and sends Lemon to Peter’s house with Bull, her brother. Lemon tries to forge an alliance at Percy’s house by revealing Tommy’s plan. Percy reveals that his and Tommy’s family have been in a truce for years, and killing a member could lead to a war. However, recently Percy took down a tree planted by Tommy’s grandfather after it was struck by lightning, leading to her seeking revenge. Bull intervenes and kills Percy and prepares to blame his death on Lemon. With no help and a target on her back, Lemon must find a way to survive and save her son, forming the rest of the plot.
After realizing she has been tricked into doing Tommy’s dirty bidding, Lemon makes a run for her life. She creates a distraction and escapes from Bull. However, Lemon knows that the Runions will keep coming after her. Therefore, she lures Bull away from the town and takes him to the cult’s land. The religious cult follows a strict no-weapons policy. As a result, when Bull follows Lemon to the cult’s land, he is apprehended. The cult’s leader punishes Bull for his arrogance and kills him using sulfuric acid.
With Bull dead, Lemon returns home to rescue Coy. Lemon strategically targets the men looking after Coy. She uses Bull’s truck to lure Wade outside the house. Lemon attacks him with a crowbar. When Wade refuses to stand down, Lemon brutally kills him by smashing his skull. The last remaining member of the Runion gang, Dixon, tries to threaten Lemon. However, she retrieves a gun and forces him to stand down. She asks him to tell Tommy that their deal is over.

If Tommy comes after Coy again, Lemon threatens to raise a Query that could jeopardize Tommy’s business. However, Dixon’s words convince Lemon that her actions will lead to war. Lemon realizes that Tommy will not spare her. Therefore, she chains Dixon to his brothers bodies in a hole leaving him alive and heads to confront Tommy. At that house, Tommy tries to talk Lemon out of harming her. However, Lemon shoots Tommy dead. Before leaving town, she stops by Grady’s and informs him there will be a war. He also informs her that a body without hands was found by hikers only 15 miles away. She cries and says Tarlee tried his hardest to make it back. She gives Grady a key and tells him she left some loose ends at her house and that it will either end with the key or more dirt, up to him. She alludes to him either letting Dixon free or burying him with the bodies. With all the threats negated, Lemon reunites with her son in a heartwarming moment.
Ultimately, Lemon succeeds in protecting her son despite being double-crossed by Tommy. Moreover, Lemon cleverly takes out her enemies and makes the deaths look like a result of a war between the Knox and the Runion factions.

Lemon’s actions echo the moral of the story she tells Coy earlier in the film, where a person must do anything necessary to survive as the crooked and evil world will always try to destroy them. Thus, Lemon’s story comes full circle as she goes from being a homemaker to a force of fury when her son’s life is threatened. The film ends with Lemon using the money she took from Tommy’s house to start a new life. Lemon and Coy drive away into the sunset, leaving the carnage behind.

####The Devil's 8####
Federal agent Ray Faulkner poses as a road gang convict and arranges the escape of a group of hardened chain-gang criminals. He forces them at gunpoint into a helicopter. In a flashback, Faulkner wants to take on local crime boss Burl, who runs a moonshine ring and has a great deal of political power in the state. Faulkner persuades the convicts to work on the side of the law by promising them paroles. He heads a team of eight men composed of himself, six prisoners and a fellow agent. The team includes:
*Sonny, a man in prison for murder who is a good driver but has a drinking problem.
*Frank Davis, a former driver for the syndicate who is at first opposed to the idea but then discovers that the mob murdered his brother.
*Henry, a black prisoner who is a good driver.
*Billy Jo, a mechanic who wants to drive.
*Sam, a prisoner who likes to fight.
*Chandler, a man who refuses to fight and reads the Bible.
*Stewart Martin, a federal agent on his first assignment.
Faulkner trains the men in high-speed driving and hurling lighted bombs at pinpoint targets.

The team starts intercepting the moonshiners' delivery cars until Burl is forced to give Faulkner and his men a share of the illegal whiskey operation and allow them to make the deliveries. Burl arranges for Faulkner and Martin to be ambushed by crooked police while making a moonshine run, and Martin is shot down from a police helicopter. Sonny has learned the location of Burl's stills and the team attacks with their specially equipped cars and carefully timed explosives. During the battle, Burl tries to escape by using his mistress Cissy as a hostage, but Faulkner captures him. Cissy is reunited with Davis, and Burl is taken to prison.

####The Devil's Advocate####
Kevin Lomax is a Gainesville, Florida defense attorney who has never lost a case. While defending schoolteacher Lloyd Gettys against a charge of child molestation, he realizes his client is guilty. Despite this, Kevin destroys the victim's credibility, securing a "not guilty" verdict.

A New York City law firm asks Kevin to assist a jury selection. After the jury delivers a not guilty verdict, the head of the firm, John Milton, offers Kevin a high-paying job. Kevin accepts, and he and his wife Mary Ann move to Manhattan. He is soon spending most of his time at work, leaving Mary Ann feeling isolated. Kevin's fundamentalist mother Alice, whose only time having sex in her life resulted in Kevin's birth, suggests they both return home after an unsettling conversation with Milton, but Kevin refuses.

When billionaire Alex Cullen is accused of murdering his wife, his stepson, and a maid, Milton assigns the case to Kevin. This demands more of Kevin's time, further separating him from Mary Ann, and he begins to fantasize about his co-worker, Christabella. Mary Ann begins seeing visions of the partners' wives becoming demonic, and has a nightmare about a baby playing with her removed ovaries. After a doctor declares her infertile, she begs Kevin to return them to Gainesville, but he refuses. Milton suggests Kevin step down from the trial to tend to Mary Ann, but Kevin says that he fears he will resent her for costing him the case.

Eddie Barzoon, the firm's managing partner, is convinced that Kevin is competing for his job after discovering Kevin's name on the firm's charter and threatens to inform the United States Attorney's office of the firm's activities. Kevin tells Milton about Eddie's threats, but Milton seems to dismiss them; during the conversation, Eddie is beaten to death in Central Park by vagrants with demonic appearances.

While preparing Melissa Black, Alex Cullen's secretary, to testify about the latter's alibi, Kevin realizes she is lying and tells Milton he believes Alex is guilty. Milton offers to back him regardless and Kevin proceeds, winning an acquittal with Melissa's perjured testimony. Afterwards, Kevin finds Mary Ann covered with a blanket in a nearby church. She claims Milton raped her that day, but Kevin insists Milton was with him in court. Mary Ann drops her blanket, revealing her body covered with cuts and scratches. Assuming she injured herself, Kevin commits her to a mental institution. U.S. Justice Department agent Mitch Weaver warns Kevin that Milton is corrupt and reveals that Gettys has been arrested for killing a little girl. Moments later, Weaver is struck by a car and killed.

Alice, Kevin, and Pam Garrety, his case manager, visit Mary Ann at the institution. After seeing Pam as a demon, Mary Ann hits her, barricades the room, and commits suicide. Alice reveals that Milton is Kevin's father, whom she met in New York decades earlier. Kevin leaves the hospital to confront Milton, who admits to raping Mary Ann. Kevin shoots Milton, but the bullets do not harm him. Milton reveals himself as Satan; Kevin blames him for everything that happened, but Milton counters that he merely "set the stage", and that Kevin chose to neglect Mary Ann and defend the guilty. Kevin realizes he always wanted to win, no matter the cost. Christabella appears, and Milton announces that he wants Kevin and Christabella - Kevin's half-sister - to conceive the Antichrist. Kevin initially appears to acquiesce, but then abruptly shoots himself in the head. Milton's Satanic rage burns Christabella alive, initially revealing his demonic form before turning into an angel who resembles Kevin.

Suddenly, Kevin finds himself back at the recess of the Gettys trial. He announces that he cannot represent his client despite the threat of disbarment. Kevin's reporter friend Larry offers him a high-profile interview, promising to make him famous. Encouraged by Mary Ann, Kevin agrees. After they leave, Larry transforms into Milton, who declares, "Vanity--definitely my favorite sin."

####The Devil's in the Details####
Thomas Conrad (Joel Mathews), a supermarket manager and military ex-soldier, has trouble re-adjusting to a normal life in Nogales, Arizona. For over 6 months, he has been tormented by post-traumatic stress disorder from a terrifying experience serving his country overseas. Enduring issues with his family, he has also separated himself from his wife Selina (Jenna Lyng) and daughter Chloe (Ava Acres). Recommended to undergo rehab, he visits ex-Navy Seal and psychiatrist, Dr. Robert Michaels (Ray Liotta), who helps him identify the moments leading up to his condition.

One evening after work, Thomas accidentally rear-ends a vehicle. For the incident, he reimburses a Mexican named Bill Duffy (Emilio Rivera), financing several glasses of booze between them at a local bar. After becoming drunk, spilling family information and submitting his car keys in for his safety, he passes out. Thomas awakes restrained in a torture room and finds he had been kidnapped. Working for a Mexican cartel, Bill reveals himself to be the culprit and along with Corbin (Jake Jacobson) working with him, forces Thomas through an ultimatum to cooperate with a cross-border drug smuggling operation, holding his wife and daughter captive at their home and threatening to kill them. With his father Richard Conrad (Raymond J. Barry) a judge, his sister Claire (Nikki Deloach) a police officer and brother Kyle Conrad (Wes McGee) a border patrol officer, Thomas must have his estranged family commit the crime in a timely manner.

During a series of phone calls that detail the action sequences, Thomas succeeds to get his family into action. He comes close to becoming fatally wounded on many occasions where his time nearly expires to complete a task and is also threatened with being injected by a deadly chemical compound. Many of Bill's associates check in to keep watch, making Thomas believe he had been taken to Mexico. On one instance, he pleads help from a young man named Trevor (Lane Garrison) who enters the room, but he is revealed to be working with the others, soon bringing in Thomas's employee Olivia (Shi Ne Nielson) to shoot and kill her which infuriates Thomas. Eventually Thomas's sister Claire secures a large amount of drugs and money from a designated house, but when she transports it to the drop-off spot, she is apparently shot and killed. Soon, his father Richard calls Dr. Robert Michaels for help. Around this time, it’s revealed in a flashback that during his military duty with his comrade Hutchens (Albert Thakur), who was shot, Thomas inadvertently cornered and gunned down several armed kids in a home, causing his mental anguish. Robert arrives at Thomas's wife's house pretending to be looking for a plumber. Taking action, an armed Robert sneaks to the back and enters the house, ultimately killing two men to free the house of captivity.

Released from restraint and left weakened on the floor, Thomas finds the chance to stab and kill an armed Trevor with a sharp object. Taking his gun, he also shoots Corbin in the head. Escaping the torture room after killing them both, Thomas walks down a corridor noticing audio equipment on a table. Exiting out, he realizes he was kept behind the same bar the entire time. He approaches Bill at the counter and shoots dead the provoking bartender Frank (Arturo del Puerto). Bill reveals there was no cartel and everything was his elaborate plan – they spied on him, set up the minor car accident, got him drunk in the bar, held him against his will and used certain audio clips to play tricks on him, all to goad Thomas into getting his family to commit the robbery of a drug dealer, something Bill admittedly did to other victims previously. Also Thomas's sister Claire was killed because his father involved the police. Exacting revenge, Thomas injects a lethal chemical compound into Bill, who dies as a result. Leaving the bar and relieved to see outside again, Thomas drives home to see his wife and daughter waiting to greet him at the door.

####Devil's Pond####
Newlyweds Mitch and Julianne escape their normal lives and travel to a deserted island for a romantic and adventurous honeymoon, staying for two weeks at an old cottage in the middle of a secluded lake. They discover the area has no electricity or phone coverage, as Julianne tries to settle in despite her fear of water and inability to swim. Mitch enjoys the country life, and when Julianne wants to go into town to call her parents, to confirm her safety, he gets overprotective of her.

While the two weeks go by, Julianne is eager to return home to start their new lives, but Mitch refuses to go back to that life, wanting them to stay put in his ideal setting, even when Julianne cannot find her birth control pills to prevent her pregnancy. When Julianne finds out Mitch had stalked her before they met and got married, she attempts to leave, and she sees a grave in the woods across the lake before Mitch brings her back. To ensure that she does not attempt to escape again, Mitch disposes of their boat.

One night as Mitch is asleep, Julianne takes the key worn around his neck to open his safe box, having grown suspicious of it. She finds a property deed and learns he inherited the land from his deceased father and that he had often visited the property with his dad. Using a raft to head across the lake, she tries to escape again in Mitch's pick-up truck, only for Mitch to find her there, and knock her unconscious. Chained to an anchor and a tree, Julianne realizes how psychotic Mitch is, and that he knew everything about her, including her fear of water, using it to hold her at their location.

Determined to leave, Julianne burns their matches, forcing Mitch to go into town to buy new ones. While he is gone, she gets an axe and breaks free from the chain. He comes back unexpectedly early, and she is almost discovered in her act of escape. When he finds out about it, Mitch begins physically abusing her, before quickly deciding to kill her. A struggle ensues, during which Mitch ends up stepping into a bear trap that she had buried, allowing Julianne to counterattack and eventually use the shotgun he brought back to shoot him in the arm. Mitch remains alive, but he can barely move and is unable to fight back, as Julianne frees herself and leaves a defeated and weeping Mitch for dead, with the shotgun. Overcoming her fear of water, Julianne swims across the lake to the other side and later hears a gunshot, indicating that Mitch has killed himself, seemingly unable to cope with the fact that he has lost Julianne forever due to his own abusive, controlling nature.

The final scene shows Julianne leaving her wedding ring in Mitch's disabled truck and walking away down a country road to an uncertain future, but free.

####Dial 1119####
Delusional mental patient Gunther Wyckoff (Marshall Thompson) escapes from a mental institution, intent on locating psychiatrist Dr. John Faron (Sam Levene), whose testimony sent him to the asylum. Wyckoff arrives by bus in Terminal City. As he disembarks, he is confronted by the bus driver for stealing his Colt pistol. Wyckoff uses it to kill the driver.

Wyckoff tries to locate Dr. Faron, first at his office and then at his home address – an apartment building – with no luck.  As he leaves the building, it is a warm night, and he notices the Oasis Bar across the street.  He goes into the bar and finds there is a good vantage point from which to observe the entryway to the apartment building. The bar is tended by Chuckles and his assistant/relief-person Skip (whose wife is in the hospital about to have a baby).

Chuckles, seeing a news flash story on the TV, notices that Wyckoff is one of his customers and tries, unsuccessfully, to reach a pistol he has stashed behind the bar. At this point, there are four patrons in the bar: the sluttish barfly Freddy; the young Helen, who is accompanied by an attentive older gentleman, Earl; and newspaper reporter Harrison D. Barnes. Chuckles then tries to telephone the police, but Wyckoff shoots him dead as he is placing the call.  Wyckoff then orders the bar patrons to occupy one table, where he can keep an eye on them. Meanwhile, the gunshot and subsequent scream by Helen attracts attention. As a beat police officer approaches the bar, he is shot in the leg by Wyckoff.  Bystanders rescue the officer, and a call is made for reinforcements to respond to a man barricaded in the bar.

The five hostages discuss what might be going on with Wyckoff. The relief barman, when asked, notes that the gun holds eight rounds, but while he is speaking, Wyckoff replaces the magazine with a new one. Wyckoff calls the police. He demands that the police stay away, but deliver Dr. Faron to the bar within 25 minutes or he will kill the hostages. It is revealed that Dr. Faron is the local police psychiatrist.  The press sets up TV coverage near the bar as the crowd of onlookers grows.

As the police discuss tactics, Faron is found and brought to the bar. Being a newspaperman, Harrison reminds the others that Wyckoff's crime was a big local story three years before.  As Faron pleads with the police to let him attempt to handle Wyckoff, they try to enter the bar undetected.  Wyckoff becomes aware of the attempted breach and seriously wounds an officer. Faron again pleads with the police, saying, "I demand that you let me do my job!", which Wyckoff sees on the TV. The police captain resents Faron's success at getting Wyckoff a light sentence the first time around. The police prepare a breach en masse with two minutes left before Wyckoff's deadline, but Faron slips away and enters the bar.  He tries to convince Wyckoff that he is delusional, but after some discussion, Wyckoff becomes agitated and shoots Faron dead.

The phone rings, and Skip knows it is the hospital calling about his wife. Desperate to answer, he struggles with Wyckoff; at the same moment, the police detonate an explosive charge and extinguish the lights.  In the confusion, Freddy uses Chuckles' under-counter gun to shoot Wyckoff. In shock, he staggers outside and is cut down by police gunfire. As he kneels over Faron's body, the police captain rhetorically asks an officer, "How far does a man have to go to prove that he's right?"

####Dick Tracy Meets Gruesome####
Just out of jail, Gruesome (Boris Karloff) goes to the Hangman's Knot saloon, where his old crime crony, Melody (Tony Barrett), is now playing piano. Gruesome takes him to a plastics manufacturer, where X-Ray (Skelton Knaggs) and a mysterious mastermind are in possession of a secret formula and hatching a sinister plot.

Ignoring a warning not to touch anything, Gruesome sniffs the gas from a mysterious test tube; he escapes the toxic fumes but collapses upon returning to the Hangman's Knot and is taken to the city morgue, where his body stiffens dramatically.

Dick Tracy (Ralph Byrd) is at headquarters speaking with college professor Dr. A. Tomic (Milton Parsons), a scientist who suspects someone has been following him. At the morgue, Tracy's sidekick Pat (Lyle Latell) has his back turned when Gruesome wakes up and knocks him out. Pat describes him to Tracy as looking a lot like the actor Boris Karloff (a gag cribbed from "Arsenic and Old Lace").

At a bank where Tess Trueheart (Anne Gwynne) happens to be, Gruesome and Melody drop a grenade with the gas into a wastebasket; when it goes off, everyone but Tess freezes in place. They rob the place of more than $100,000 and shoot a cop on the sidewalk before Tracy and his men arrive. Gruesome demands half of the loot from X-Ray .... or else.

Tracy tries to learn the secret of the formula from Dr. Tomic's top assistant, Professor Learned (June Clayworth), before going after Gruesome and his gang. Over the course of the film, Learned is shot dead, and Melody dies in a car accident. As an offhand comment, Tess quips "dead men tell no tales", which gives Tracy an idea: since Gruesome will resort even to murder to keep his secret weapon a secret, if he thinks Melody is alive, he will hunt Melody down to prevent any leaks. Tracy decides to run a false flag operation: put out word that Melody has been captured alive, and pose as Melody hoping Gruesome will show up. Gruesome takes the bait and abducts what he thinks is Melody from the hospital. In a climactic shootout at the plastic factory, Tracy shoots Gruesome in the back.

Tracy retrieves one last gas grenade with the intent of analyzing the contents. Back at the office, in the closing scene, the grenade inadvertently goes off, freezing everyone in place just as Dick and Tess are about to kiss.

####Disappearance####
After the disappearance of mystery author George Belanger from his sailboat, Detective Park must sort through stories of George's mistress, George's wife, and the boat captain, to ascertain if there was foul play, or if George simply left for greener pastures.

####Don't Talk to Strangers####
The unhappy marriage of Jane (Shanna Reed) and her alcoholic policeman husband Bonner (Terry O'Quinn) leads to divorce and Jane get the custody for their son. Soon, she meets a gentleman in her workplace, after a few weeks they fall in love and get married. Gentleman Douglas Patrick Brody (Pierce Brosnan) and his new wife Jane Brody attempt to build a new life, and move to a new state. However, the former husband follows them. This is just a beginning of the story filled with suspense and surprises.  As it turns out, Patrick Brody (Pierce Brosnan) is the villain behind a number of crimes.

####Double Door####
In 1910 Manhattan, Victoria Van Brett is a bitter, domineering spinster who lives an isolated life with her half-sister, Caroline, in the palatial mansion built by their late industrialist father. Victoria keeps the home shuttered and rarely leaves, controlling the operations of the residence, as well as Caroline's daily life. The sisters' younger half-brother, Rip, returns home to wed Anne Darrow, a nurse who saved his life. Victoria believes Anne to be a social climber after the family money, and surreptitiously has Rip's name removed from the family will on his wedding day. She inflicts other cruelties on the wedding day, including sabotaging the organ during Anne's walk down the aisle.

While Rip and Anne go on their honeymoon, Victoria forces Caroline to take her side, threatening to lock Caroline away in a soundproof vault, where Caroline will face death by suffocation. Victoria demands that Rip and Anne must return to handle the affairs of the estate. Rip informs Victoria that he and Anne plan to move out of the familial mansion and purchase a home of their own. This enrages Victoria.

Rip recounts childhood memories of Victoria's abusive behavior toward him after their father died. Anne attempts to retaliate against Victoria, but at a dinner party Victoria accuses Anne of having an affair with the family doctor, John Lucas. Anne declares she is leaving the mansion.

Victoria offers to send Anne away with heirloom pearls that Victoria previously denied Anne on her wedding day. Anne is lured by Victoria to the soundproof vault in the mansion. Once in the vault, Victoria locks the door behind her, sealing Anne inside. Caroline hears Anne's initial scream before the vault closes, and rushes to the room, but Victoria insists that Caroline was only having a nightmare. Caroline notices Anne's suitcase on the floor before she returns to bed.

Rip and attorney Mortimer attempt to locate the missing Anne, whom Victoria asserts left Rip for John. The men ultimately locate the vault and Anne is saved. Caroline finally defies Victoria by telling her she is leaving with Rip and Anne. Victoria tries to lure Caroline into the vault with her, but Caroline refuses and departs. Mortimer reverts the family will back to Rip, and blackmails Victoria with her attempted murder of Anne, threatening to report her to police if she does not sign the will. After Mortimer exits the room, Victoria realizes they have forgotten the pearls. As she enters the vault to retrieve them, the door closes behind her and seals her doom.

####Double Down####
Four young compulsive gamblers waste their lives on booze, broads and bookies. David (Jason Priestley), the heavy-drinking ladies man. Mike (Kane Picoy), a degenerate gambler. Cory the Jersey Jinx (Peter Dobson). Brett (Justin Jon Ross), the guy who tells every girl he loves her on the first date. When they find themselves in debt to a psychotic Christopher Walken obsessed hit man (Mars Callahan) they come up with a radical plan to get out of debt with a fixed game.

####Down the Shore####
The owner of a Jersey shore amusement park is forced to confront his dark past when an enigmatic Frenchman shows up on his doorstep claiming to be his late sister's widowed husband.

####Drones####
Two Airmen are tasked with deciding the fate of a terrorist with a single push of a button. As the action plays out in real time, their window to use a deadly military drone on the target slowly closes. With time running out, the Airmen begin to question what the real motives are behind the ordered lethal attack.

####The East####
Jane (Brit Marling), an operative for private intelligence firm Hiller Brood, is assigned by her boss, Sharon (Patricia Clarkson), to infiltrate The East, an underground activist, anarchist and environmentalist organization that has launched a vandalistic attack against a corporate leader and threatens two more as retribution for ecological crimes. Calling herself Sarah, she joins drifters in hitching train rides. When one drifter, Luca (Shiloh Fernandez), helps her escape from the police, she identifies the symbol of The East hanging from Luca's car mirror. Sarah self-inflicts an arm injury that she tells Luca was caused in the escape so he can get her medical attention. He takes her to a seemingly abandoned house in the woods where members of The East live and one of them, Doc (Toby Kebbell), treats her.

Sarah is given two nights to recover before she must leave. At an elaborate dinner involving straitjackets, Sarah is tested and fails, exposing how selfishly she and many others live their lives. Sarah is caught spying one night by Eve (a group member who is deaf) and signs to her she is an undercover agent, threatening Eve with jail if she stays; Eve leaves the next morning.

Another member, Izzy (Elliot Page), is the daughter of a petrochemical CEO. The group uses this connection to gain access to him and forces him to bathe in the waterway he has been using as a toxic dumping ground. This goes wrong when security arrives and shoots the fleeing Izzy. At the squat, Doc's hands tremble too much for him to perform surgery. Working under his guidance, Sarah manages to remove the bullet but Izzy dies. This is the catalyst for Sarah and Benji's romance and they have sex.

Sarah implores Benji to leave, but he insists they participate in a fourth and final jam. Sarah initially refuses but gives in. When she awakens after sleeping in the car, she realizes that Benji is driving her to Hiller Brood's headquarters. He reveals that he has always suspected her of being a spy, as did Luca, who brought her in as a test. Benji wants Sarah to obtain a NOC global list of Hiller Brood agents, to "watch" them. Having copied the list onto her cell phone's memory card, Sarah runs into Sharon and confronts her about the firm's activities, revealing her new allegiances. Sharon has Sarah's cellphone confiscated as she leaves. As Hiller Brood had been sharing information with the FBI, The East's hideout is raided and Doc is arrested but sacrifices himself to ensure that the remaining members can escape. Sarah tells Benji she has failed to get the NOC list, which Benji reveals he meant to use to expose the undercover agents, even though that meant they could be killed. Sarah chooses not to go on the run and they part as Benji heads out of the country. In truth, Sarah still has the list because she had swallowed the memory card. The film ends with an epilogue of her contacting her undercover former coworkers and informing them of the corporate crimes Hiller Brood's clients want to protect. She is thus using a peaceful approach to promote The East's goals.

####Emmett's Mark####
In the Philadelphia police department, Emmett Young is a hotshot, a workaholic newly promoted to homicide. He learns he has a disease that will soon kill him painfully, so he hires a stranger to arrange his own death. With one eye on the calendar (he's allowed a few days' grace before his murder), he pursues a final case, the serial killing of young women. Emmett develops a profile of the assailant. Meanwhile, his fixer hires an ex-cop to kill Emmett, a lonely security guard whom the fixer taunts and belittles.
When he is about to solve his case and he is ready to face his destiny, Emmett is informed that his diagnosis was wrong, and he tries to reach for the fixer he had hired.

####Escape the Field####
Six strangers who have been kidnapped wake up in a cornfield. They realize they have been abducted, but don't know by whom.  They understand that they have to survive in this environment that turns out to be hostile, solving puzzles with their respective abilities and some objects that have been given to them (matches, a compass, a canteen, a single bullet gun, a lantern, and a knife).

####Eve####
An explorer looking for a priceless missing Inca treasure in the Amazon jungle runs across a bikini clad and barefoot young woman named Eve,

####Exposed####
A police officer, Detective Galban, investigates the circumstances behind the death of his partner, Detective Joey Cullen. The mysterious case leads to an attempted police cover-up and a dangerous secret involving an unlikely young woman. The two parallel story lines initially appear to have little in common, but as events gradually unfold in the two separate urban worlds, the young woman, Isabel De La Cruz, appears to somehow be involved in the detective's demise.

Detective Cullen was depraved and corrupted. His colleagues fear that the investigation into his death will bring these facts to light. The results would include bad press for the police department and the loss of his pension for his family. The fear is based on the fact that one of the prime suspects in the case is a young ex-convict who had allegedly been sexual assaulted with a broomstick wielded by Detective Cullen. Supervisors within the precinct would rather let the murderer go free than to open up a Pandora's Box of troubles for everyone concerned.

Meanwhile, in Isabel's private world, Isabel befriends a young girl named Elisa.  Isabel suspects that Elisa is being abused at home by her father.  She also believes that the strange beings she has begun seeing on the streets are angels.  Accordingly, she thinks that her mysterious "impossible" pregnancy is a gift from God, which no one else is willing to believe.  Isabel returns to her parents’ home to live.  When Elisa says that Isabel's father has hurt her, it triggers a sudden recollection in Isabel's mind of molestation by her father many years ago.  All of Isabel's buried memories are suddenly released in an avalanche of images.  In truth, it turns out that Isabel's "angels" are a fabrication of her own mind. She created them to accompany a fictional narrative that would replace the unbearably traumatic memories of being raped by Detective Cullen on the subway platform the night that her "visions" began. She further suppressed the memory of catching him off guard afterwards and killing him in a fit of righteous rage.

In response to the memories and to Elisa's crying, Isabel kills her father in order to protect Elisa.  Detective Galban is then sent to the scene of the murder.  When Galban looks at an old photograph of Isabel's family it is revealed that Elisa is also a fabrication of Isabel's mind.  The imaginary girl is actually Isabel as a child.  In the end Elisa disappears as Isabel is in church praying for the strength to accept everything that has happened.

####Fall####
Best friends, Becky and Hunter, are climbing a mountain with Becky's husband, Dan, who loses his footing and falls to his death. Nearly a year later, Becky has given up climbing and became an alcoholic shut-in. She has estranged herself from her father, James, because he suggested that Dan was not the right man for her. Just before the anniversary of Dan's death, Hunter invites her to climb the decommissioned convert|2000|foot|meter|sigfig=1 B-67 TV Tower in the desert, where she can scatter Dan's ashes as a form of healing. Becky refuses initially, then changes her mind and agrees to go, so that she can finally move on from Dan's death.

The next day, Hunter and Becky arrive and successfully climb a severely corroded ladder to a tiny platform at the top of the tower, where Becky scatters the ashes, finally letting Dan go. As they begin their descent, however, the ladder breaks, stranding them several hundred feet above the next intact section and almost 2,000 feet above ground. Moreover, the backpack with their water and a small drone has fallen onto a communications dish, just beyond the reach of their rope.

Despite the remote location, Hunter is confident at first that emergency services will notice the crash of the ladder, but help never arrives. They try to use their cellphones, but suspect that radio interference from the communications dish is blocking the signal. Hunter tries sending a message for help by packing her phone in one of her shoes and dropping it out of range of the interference, but the phone is destroyed upon impact with the ground before the message transmits.

The pair later notice two men camping in an RV nearby and try to get their attention, to no avail. They wait until dark and fire a flare gun they found in an emergency box on the pole. The men see it, but instead of helping them, they steal Hunter's vehicle and drive off.

As night falls, Becky notices a tattoo on Hunter's ankle: "1-4-3,” a numeric code that Dan had used for telling Becky that he loved her. Hunter tearfully admits to a four-month affair that ended shortly before Becky and Dan's wedding, but Becky is unmoved by her apologies. The next day, as penance, Hunter climbs down to retrieve the backpack, but nearly falls to her death. She injures her hand in the process, but successfully ties the rope to the bag, and Becky is forced to use all her remaining strength to pull both Hunter and the backpack up. Becky uses the tower's warning light to charge the drone and sends it to a nearby diner with a written message for help a few miles away, but it is struck by a truck and destroyed.

Days later, Becky is delirious from the lack of food and water, but in a brief lucid moment, she remembers that when Hunter had gone for the backpack, she had actually fallen onto one of the communication dishes and was killed; Becky has been hallucinating her presence since then. The next day, Becky is awakened by a vulture gnawing at her wounded leg and kills it to eat. Her strength partially restored, Becky climbs down to the dish where Hunter’s body lies and types a text message to her father. She then puts the phone into Hunter's shoe for protection, shoves it into a hole in the corpse’s abdomen, and pushes it off the tower. Hunter’s body cushions the impact and the message transmits. Becky’s father alerts emergency services, who then rush to the tower. She is rescued and reunited with her father.

####A Fall from Grace####
Jasmine Bryant (Bresha Webb) is a public defender who constantly takes plea deals in small town Virginia. Her husband Jordan (Matthew Law) is a police officer who is discouraged after witnessing an older woman he attempted to save complete a suicide attempt.

Jasmine is assigned by her boss Rory (Tyler Perry) to defend Grace Waters (Crystal Fox), a woman accused of murdering her husband Shannon DeLong (Mehcad Brooks). Grace insists that she is guilty and will agree to a plea deal if she goes to a prison close by her son Malcolm (Walter Fauntleroy). Jasmine is troubled by case details, including Shannon's missing body. Rory is not pleased that Jasmine wants to represent the suspect because the department does not have the budget for a trial, and he expects the media frenzy will disrupt their lives.

Grace’s best friend Sarah Miller (Phylicia Rashad) tells Jasmine that Grace was feeling sad after her divorce, and she pushed her to get out and meet someone new. She ended up marrying Shannon. After researching the case some more, Jasmine and her colleagues Tilsa (Angela Marie Rigsby) and Donnie (Donovan Christie, Jr.) believe Grace is innocent. Grace tells Jasmine that she met Shannon at a gallery exhibit of his work. He charmed Grace and they married three months later. Grace says that Shannon soon became cruel and secretive. After he got her passwords and secretly stole from her accounts, he mortgaged her house with forged documents. Eventually, the bank fired Grace. The last night, Grace walked in on Shannon and another woman having sex in the marriage bed. Later the couple argued; she beat him with a baseball bat and pushed him down the stairs to the basement. Grace drove away, calling Sarah from the country to confess the killing. Sarah tells Jasmine that when she went to Grace's house, she saw her son Malcolm leaving the house. Because Shannon's body is missing, Sarah believes that Malcolm helped Grace dispose of it.

At the trial, Jasmine fails to cast doubt on prosecution evidence. at proving Grace's innocence. Calling Sarah as a witness backfires because phone records show numerous phone calls between the women on the night of the murder, and Sarah finally admits on the stand that Grace confessed to killing Shannon to her. Grace is found guilty by the jury. As she is being led away, Grace sees Sarah in the gallery, comforting a sobbing Malcolm. Grace notices that Sarah is wearing a pendant identical to one that Shannon had that was supposedly one-of-a-kind. In her cell, Grace thinks back to the times that Sarah was involved in her relationship with Shannon, and screams to the guards that she needs to call her lawyer.

Feeling defeated, Jasmine stops by Sarah's house (a residence for old ladies) and notices an elderly woman named Alice (Cicely Tyson) trying to escape from the house. Alice wants to leave the house and reveals that other women have died there, including Shane Fieldman (Jordan's victim from the beginning of the film). When Jasmine discovers there are numerous elderly women locked up in the basement, she is kidnapped. Jordan discovers Sarah's criminal history and searches for his wife. Shannon turns out to be alive and is revealed to be Sarah's son. Jordan knocks on the door and asks Sarah if Jasmine is there and she denies it. When Jordan calls her, he hears her phone ringing from inside the house, so he bursts in, tussles with Sarah, handcuffs her, and then looks for Jasmine as Sarah escapes. Jordan and Shannon fight as Jasmine tries to break free. Shannon is shot and is presumably killed.

As the police rescue the elderly women, it is revealed that Sarah and Shannon are really mother and son criminals Betty and Maurice Mills, who have been kidnapping elderly women for their social security information and conning middle aged women out of their life savings for over 25 years with Grace being one of those middle aged women. Grace gets one more hearing and this time, Jasmine succeeds at defending Grace by presenting new evidence that Grace was victimized by Betty and Maurice's scheme to steal her life savings, and another piece of evidence that reveals that Betty and Maurice are wanted in several states for stealing from other numerous women, which is enough for the judge to grant Grace her freedom. While everyone celebrates Grace's freedom, Rory congratulates Jasmine for uncovering such a crazy scheme. Meanwhile, Betty is on the run from the police and has just been hired  to take care of an elderly woman in a nursing home.

####False Face####
Phillip Reynolds is a widowed, successful plastic surgeon and a charismatic sociopath. After he sees his daughter, Heather, making love to her boyfriend, he kills the boyfriend and stages the scene to appear like an accident. Heather witnesses this from afar and runs away from home in terror.

A year later, after the death of his millionaire father-in-law, Phillip discovers that both he and his brother-in-law, Bradley, are not in the will. The deceased patriarch correctly blames Phillip for his daughter's drowning death years ago and bequeaths the entirety of his $5 million estate to his granddaughter (Phillip's daughter), Heather. However, no one in the family has heard from her since she fled from home.

While driving late one night, Phillip and Bradley come across a stripper who has been severely beaten by a nightclub bouncer, leaving her face unrecognizable. Phillip brings her to the hospital and devises a plan to alter her face to the likeness of Heather; he suggests to the Jane Doe that she pose as Heather to collect the $5 million inheritance and then split it with him. The woman, whom Phillip refers to as "Jane," has little choice and agrees to the plan. Phillip brings Jane to his home to recover. For several weeks he coaches her to act like his daughter, playing recordings of Heather's voice and teaching her Heather's mannerisms.

Phillip holds a family party to celebrate Heather's "return," and to see if Jane can successfully convince the family members that she is Heather. At the party, Bradley is suspicious when Jane refuses to play piano, as Heather was a musical prodigy, but the rest of the family believes Heather has returned. Jane/Heather collects the $5 million and splits it with Phillip, and they begin a romantic relationship.

Returning home one day, Phillip and Jane discover Bradley waiting for them. Bradley accuses Jane of being an imposter, but in the argument he suffers a heart attack. To Jane's dismay, Phillip takes away Bradley's medication and callously plays chopsticks on the piano as he dies. At Bradley's funeral, the real Heather watches from afar.

Phillip and Jane return home to find Heather, who acts as if nothing is unusual. Phillip lies to her, saying that her grandfather left all his money to a college. The trio live together uneasily for several days until Heather, who realizes that her father changed Jane's face, tells them that she plans to visit the family lawyer in Atlanta to inquire about her grandfather's will. Phillip tells Jane that he will hire a hitman to kill Heather, but in fact he hires the hitman to kill Jane.

Phillip returns to the house and tells Heather that he killed Jane for her. He then attempts to rape Heather, but is stopped by Jane, who has escaped the killer and knocks Phillip out with a cast-iron skillet.

Heather and Jane embrace, and Heather explains that for the past year, she had been staying in a sanitarium owned by Dr. Dean, a family friend. She entered the sanitarium after witnessing Phillip murder her boyfriend; while Dean wanted to have her father arrested, Heather wanted to understand her father's actions and thus returned home. Dean arrives at the house, and when Phillip awakens, Dean and Heather together tell him that there was never a "Jane." Phillip has a psychotic break where he is tormented by the people he has killed. Several other doctors place Phillip in a straitjacket and take him to the sanitarium.

Jane departs the house with the medical staff, leaving Heather and Dean together in an embrace. As Phillip is incarcerated in the sanitarium, Jane, still impersonating Heather, is met by the family's lawyers at the airport. She receives $2.5 million before departing on a private jet.

####Fangs of the Wild####
A boy sees a murder at his father's (Onslow Stevens) lodge, but the killer (Charles Chaplin Jr.) calls it a hunting accident.

####Fascination####
Young Scott Doherty gets suspicious when his mother plans to wed Oliver Vance soon after her husband's untimely death. Scott investigates with Oliver's pretty daughter, Kelly, who shared Scott's doubts about the upcoming nuptials. Along the way, he falls in love with Kelly, but a fatal explosion turns Scott's life upside down - and the evidence points to him as the murderer. Has he been framed?

####Fast and Loose####
Rare booksellers Joel and Garda Sloane try to solve a murder, which hinges on a missing scrap of a William Shakespeare manuscript.

####Fatal Instinct####
A police detective follows a trail of evidence that eventually seems to lead to his trusted partner's ex-con brother who he helped put in prison years ago.

####Fear No More####
Personal secretary Sharon Carlin (Mala Powers) arrives at a railway station on a mission to deliver an important envelope for her boss. When she enters her compartment, a man threatens her with a gun. She sees a woman in the compartment who appears dead. The man knocks Sharon unconscious. When she comes to, she finds herself interrogated by a plainclothes policeman who accuses her of murdering the woman. When they leave the train for the police station, Sharon manages to dodge the detective and, panicked, runs in front of a car which has to swerve to avoid her, slightly injuring a young boy who is a passenger. Sharon begs the driver, Paul Colbert (Jacques Bergerac), a divorced man who is the boy's father and is returning the boy to his mother, to help her. He reluctantly agrees. After a disagreeable scene at the wife's house, Paul drops Sharon back at her home. She has forgotten that her male friend is staying in her flat. Later he phones her and they have a coffee together at a local beat café. When she returns home, she finds her friend dead. Chased by the murderer, she dashes out of the apartment block and Paul drives her away. She eventually discloses to him that she can't go to the police as they won't believe her: she has a mental health history and was once in a sanatorium. The following day, Paul drives her to her employer's house where, inexplicably, his employer and his staff disavow any knowledge of her errand. More worryingly, her employer, Milo Seymour (John Harding) claims a large sum of money has disappeared from his safe, to which only he and she have the combination. Is Sharon the victim of an elaborate plot, or is she veering into madness?

####Female Jungle####
A cop (Tierney) is suspected of killing a gorgeous film star.  Since he was extremely drunk at the time, even he suspects that he did it.

The investigation leads him to Candy, an artist's mistress (Mansfield), as well as to a slimy "Laura"-type gossip columnist (John Carradine) who spent time with the woman that night and becomes the main suspect. But he also becomes a red herring when a third man is finally found to be the real killer.

####The Feminine Touch####
Jenny Baron (Paige Turco) is a beautiful investigative reporter swept into a deadly conspiracy that reaches to the highest levels of the government. When she is assigned to get the story of charismatic Presidential candidate Senator Ashton (George Segal), her job is complicated by a string of political assassinations and attempts. After her lover (Dirk Benedict) is killed, things get personal. Jenny finds herself in possession of a computer disk that holds a list of powerful politicians marked for elimination, and the key to the massive web of death and deceit —— and now she's next on the list of targets! Pursued by hitmen and hunted by police, if she survives, she may discover a truth she's not prepared to accept.

####The Fifth Floor####
The film focuses on Kelly McIntyre, a disco dancer played by Dianne Hull

Cathey Paine, who played the part of Leslie Van Houten in "Helter Skelter" (1976), Robert Englund and Michael Berryman who are familiar to horror fans also play parts in the film.
Singer Pattie Brooks also makes an appearance in the film as a disco singer.

####The Fifth Patient####
John Reilly, an American national, finds himself in an African hospital where, he learns he has spent the last two years due to a head injury. He remembers nothing of his past and is accused of being a spy. The film features Helen, a woman Reilly believes might be his wife.

####Final Embrace####
A pop singer is killed. A detective investigates.

####Firecracker####
The body of a murder victim is being exhumed from under a storage shed in 1950s small-town Wamego, Kansas. The story leading up to the murder is told.

Handsome, sociopathic, David, the owner of a local garage, bullies his meek, sensitive piano-playing younger brother, the teenage Jimmy. Their religious, mentally unbalanced mother, Eleanor, attempts to ignore David's behavior; their withdrawn and ill father is about to be placed in a nursing home. When Jimmy shyly announces at the family dinner table that his piano teacher plans to include him in an upcoming recital, David belittles and beats him, ordering him to give up his "sissy" piano and work at the garage, earn money and be a real man. Jimmy finds temporary escape from his family dysfunction by visiting a traveling carnival that stops in Wamego each summer. He forms a platonic friendship with the premiere sideshow attraction, Sandra, an aging but still glamorous lounge singer. Sandra is virtually a captive of the sadistic carnival owner, Frank, who abuses her emotionally and physically. While Jimmy dreams of running away to play piano for the carnival, Sandra has the opposite dream — to escape the carnival and live a normal life.

Sandra had a past relationship with David, but when he approaches her again, she makes it clear that she is no longer interested in him and tells him that she won't let him "hurt her" again. David goes home and takes out his frustrations on Jimmy, in a scene where sexual abuse is strongly implied but not shown. It is later revealed that David got Sandra pregnant the previous summer, and when the pathologically jealous Frank found out, he cruelly terminated her pregnancy and mutilated her genitals to make her unattractive to other men. Unwilling to take no for an answer, David confronts Sandra at her trailer, and discovers Jimmy hiding there. David flies into a rage, rapes Jimmy in front of Sandra, and storms out. Sandra consoles Jimmy, who goes home. The next day, the carnival leaves town, its departure coinciding with David's disappearance, which the female police chief, Edith "Ed" Carlisle, begins to investigate. It begins to appear that a murder, presumably of David, took place at his family's home.

Meanwhile, the carnival is losing money and Frank's treatment of Sandra is becoming worse, including sending his gang of brutal henchmen to menace her sexually. She resolves to leave and the other carnival freaks bid her goodbye. Jimmy arrives planning to join the carnival, but Sandra, knowing that the carnival is also a dysfunctional environment and not the escape of which Jimmy dreams, sends him home. Frank refuses to let Sandra go and instead chains her up. When Frank comes to see her in her chains, the other freaks help Sandra overpower him, and she strangles him to death with her chains. The freaks hide Sandra from Frank's vengeful henchmen and give her money and a bus ticket to help her escape, but the henchmen capture her in a field and brutally kill her.

Back in Wamego, flashbacks show how David came home to find Eleanor comforting the traumatized Jimmy in a locked room. David broke down the door, dragged Jimmy downstairs and started abusing him. Eleanor, praying, took a pair of scissors from a drawer and stabbed David to death. Jimmy and Eleanor then buried the body under the shed. Pearl, a local psychic girl, realizes the location of David's body and digs up his corpse, revealing a hand to Chief Ed. Eleanor, now clearly mentally ill, is taken away by attendants to a mental institution, while Jimmy cries. In an attempt to save his mother, Jimmy tearfully confesses to David's murder. Jimmy was sentenced to life in prison and  later released on parole, at which time Chief Ed, who had become a district judge, sealed the case so no record of it exists today.

####Flareup####
Michele is a Las Vegas go-go dancer whose interference in her best friend's faltering marriage is seen by the girl's ex-husband as the cause of the couple's recent divorce. Obsessed, he shoots his former wife in public but manages to get away; Michele fears he'll be coming after her next. She gets some help from the police, but fears for her safety when the maniac continually eludes capture. Driving from Vegas to Los Angeles, Michele finds work at a club called The Losers, where she's picked up by the friendly valet. She doesn't tell him there's a lunatic after her, but he knows something's wrong. Meanwhile, the killer has just shot an elderly man and stolen his car, and is on his way to L.A. to find Michele.

####Freezer####
Robert Saunders (Dylan McDermott) wakes up to find himself bound and locked inside a meat locker. After he is able to cut himself loose, two Russian mobsters Kiril and Stepan enter the freezer to question him. It becomes apparent that neither understand English, but before they leave they tell a confused Robert they want "money". Left alone, Robert finds a ventilation duct in the top of the ceiling that appears to lead to the fans inside the locker. Just then, he finds a ringing cell phone on the floor and speaks with Detective Al Dorian, who first addresses him as "Sam". Robert explains that he was having dinner in a restaurant with his girlfriend for his birthday before being knocked unconscious and thrown into the freezer. Before Dorian can complete a trace, the mobsters return and destroy the phone. They are accompanied this time by the bilingual Alisa (Yuliya Snigir), who accuses Robert of having stolen $8 million from them and demands its return; otherwise, he will freeze to death within four hours. He tries to convince them that he is innocent and this is a case of mistaken identity, but the Russians are undeterred and take his shoes before leaving.

After finding bags to wrap his bare feet, Robert tries to keep his body temperature up by exercising. While running around the room, he knocks over some boxes revealing a seriously wounded Detective Sam Gurov lying in a shelf. Sam tells Robert that he will not be allowed to leave the locker alive regardless if he is able to convince the mobsters he is innocent. Before passing out, he confesses that he was an undercover cop trying to bring down the mobsters' boss, Oleg. Robert hides Sam again and begins attempting to stop the fans by beating them with a fire extinguisher.

The Russians return and again Alisa demands to know where the money is. Robert maintains his ignorance of the matter and evades her questions, but a groan from Sam alerts Kiril. Robert takes advantage of the situation by grabbing Alisa as Kiril threatens to kill Sam. Sam shatters Robert's innocence by telling them Robert took the money despite his protests. Robert deduces that Alisa was supposed to be in charge of the lost money and she begs Robert to confess if not to save himself, then to save her. After the Russians leave again, Sam explains that after a failed hit, Oleg began moving his vast fortune around for protection; during the shuffle, the $8 million was lost. Sam volunteers to change clothes with Robert and pose as him in order to allow Robert a chance at escape. The plan fails, and Robert, in a bid to save Sam's life, confesses that the money is hidden in the restaurant where he was abducted. Despite this, he is knocked out and Sam is killed.

Upon waking up, Robert makes Alisa believe that Stepan is the real thief and Robert is being framed, since Stepan was responsible for both the death of Sam's informant and identifying Robert as the thief. Robert kills Kiril with a meat hook, but is incapacitated by Stepan before he can escape. Alisa, now clearly shaken, tells Stepan that Robert accused him of taking the money. Enraged by Kiril's death, Stepan drags Alisa out of the freezer and locks Robert inside once again. After he puts on Kiril's clothes, he continues to search for but fails to find any way out of the meat locker. When Stepan and Alisa return, Robert convinces them to let him contact Detective Dorian because, as Sam's partner, he will know where the money is. Stepan impatiently ends the call and throws a bucket of water on Robert before leaving.

With hypothermia setting in Robert again tries to disconnect the fan wires in ventilation shaft, but is unable due to his state. At that time, a well-dressed and bound Russian man is thrown into the room with Robert. The man, introducing himself as Danil, offers to help Robert escape in exchange for a portion of the money. Robert instructs Danil to cut the electrical wires in the shaft, but when the mobsters enter the room, Danil is electrocuted to death. Alisa reveals that Danil was merely a plant to get the truth from Robert and was in fact Vadim, Oleg's son.

When Oleg arrives, he finds Robert and identifies him as the assassin who previously failed to kill him. Once Robert drops his claimed innocence and acknowledges the truth, he and Oleg fight as Alisa and Stepan look on. Due to his weakened state, Oleg gains the upper hand but is killed by Alisa before he can finish off Robert. Alisa is in fact Robert's girlfriend and had been working on the inside for him. A wounded Stepan escapes and locks the two inside. Robert uses the severed electrical wires to cause the metal meat rack to give off enough heat to warm their hands. At this time, Detective Dorian arrives and demands to know where the money is after instructing the two to bind their hands to the rack. Alisa confesses that the money has been inside the meat locker the entire time, hidden inside the boxes of cuts. While Dorian is distracted with this, Alisa and Robert escape by burning through the zip ties binding their wrists together on the heated rack.

Robert and Alisa use a semi-truck to hook up to the freezer with the money and Dorian inside. After traveling to a port, they load the container onto a cargo ship. Alisa gives Robert a "birthday present" from Oleg, a box of cuts holding a large amount of money. They drive off planning a warm vacation, but not before knocking an injured Stepan into the bay.

####Galveston####
In 1988, New Orleans hitman Roy Cady is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer and storms out of his doctor's office. Roy is a heavy-drinking criminal enforcer and contract killer whose boss sets him up in a double-cross scheme. After killing his would-be assassins before they could kill him, Roy discovers Rocky, a young escort being held captive and reluctantly takes her with him on his escape. He returns to his hometown of Galveston, Texas, where he plans his revenge after a sting is turned against him.

On the ride to his hometown, Rocky tells him she thought it was a legitimate business because she found it in the yellow pages and had no idea how it really was. They stop and get drunk at a bar, and Rocky offers sexual favors to Roy, but he rebuffs her. The next morning, Rocky asks Roy to stop because she says she can get money owed to her. Roy, sitting in the car hears a gunshot, and Rocky returns to the car with her three-year-old sister Tiffany. Rocky tells Roy that she fired a shot at the wall and didn't hurt anyone, but Roy later finds out that Rocky shot and killed her stepdad.

After Roy leaves for a few days and reconciles with an ex from the past he returns to find out Rocky's real story, and that she (thinking he left for good) is escorting again. He then finds out Tiffany, who she claimed was her sister, is really her daughter, by her stepdad in rape. Roy calls his old boss to blackmail him with incriminating documents found during the failed sting, demanding $75,000 to stay silent. Determined to find safety and sanctuary in Galveston, he tells Rocky that he will give her the money and convinces her to go to school and become something.

Just as Roy and Rocky finally start recognizing their feelings for one another on a date at a local bar, they are captured by a crew belonging to Roy's old boss. They are separated, and Roy is severely beaten. After a while, a woman from his past finds him and frees him, telling him to flee before someone finds him. He looks for Rocky to find her dead in another room from a brutal beating and gang rape. Roy escapes the compound, killing a bodyguard outside and taking his car and gun. He is emotionally distraught as he leaves and is involved in a car accident. He wakes in a hospital where a nurse tells him that he has aspergillosis, not cancer, and his condition is treatable by the state.

Roy is arrested on multiple charges and sent to jail. His former boss' lawyer meets with him and implies they know where Tiffany is and will kill her and the motel staff if he talks to the police. Because of his love for Rocky and Tiffany, he stays silent until he is released 20 years later. Tiffany, now an adult, shows up at his door as the town is preparing for Hurricane Ike. Roy says he will tell her the truth, but then he wants her to leave for her safety. He tells her that Rocky was actually her mother and she was not abandoned, giving her much needed closure. Roy is then seen walking toward the beach as he experiences flashbacks of Rocky.

####The Girl in the Kremlin####
In Moscow, four terrified women prisoners are brought to the office of Joseph Stalin, who chooses Dasha, the smallest and most beautiful, and punishes her by shaving off her black hair. Moments later, plastic surgeon Dr. Petrov leads Stalin into the operating room and transforms his face so that he is unrecognizable. After his handlers announce publicly that Stalin has died, they secret him away to a hideout, where Greta Grisenko serves as his nurse. Meanwhile, Greta's twin sister Lili continues searching for her, as she has been ever since Russian troops invaded their home country of Lithuania and took Greta, against her will, to Moscow. Earlier, Lili had engaged private investigator Steve Anderson, an American living in Berlin, to find Greta, and now locates him there and asks why he has failed to contact her with information about her sister. Steve has discovered that Greta is working in Moscow and, despising Communists, refuses to work with Lili until she convinces him that her sister is an innocent victim of the Russians.

Steve takes Lili to the home of Mischa Rimilkin, a one-armed espionage agent who reveals that Greta has been working for Petrov. Upon receiving assurance from the U.S. Army that Lili is not a spy, the men divulge to her that Dasha, now confined to a mental hospital, claims that Stalin has been surgically altered and is living clandestinely with Greta.

The next day, Lili once again pleads with Steve to help her locate Greta, but Steve protests that the job is too dangerous. He is won over, however, by Lili's clever idea to force Stalin into action by announcing over the radio that he is alive. As they have hoped, Stalin hears the broadcast and orders his henchman, Igor Smetka, to kill Steve.

Mischa then brings Steve and Lili to Abensburg, West Germany, where Stalin's son Jacob has been living in secret since the Allies captured him during World War II. On the train, Steve and Mischa note the suspicious presence of a nun wearing combat boots, and once in Abensburg, Mischa follows the nun into a church. At the same time, Steve and Lili visit Jacob, who hates his father and, after conceding that he may be alive, warns them that they are in grave danger.

That night, Mischa and Steve vie for Lili's attention, and although Steve eventually wins a kiss, he then insults her, prompting her to slap him. From Lili's hotel room window, Steve spots the nun approaching and races downstairs, where he finds that Mischa has been knocked out. Steve overpowers the nun and removes the disguise, revealing his old cohort, Russian Tata Brun. Tata explains that he has been ordered to kill Steve in return for permission to see his exiled family, and the two agree to part without violence.

In the next few days, Mischa, Steve and Lili study old films of Stalin to become familiar with his mannerisms. Before one screening, Steve spots Igor and, suspecting impending danger, orders Lili to return to the hotel. Although Steve and Mischa wait in the screening room for an attack, none comes. Soon after, Tata arrives with a cab driver who announces that Lili has been abducted by Igor. Steve notifies the police and agrees to act as bait to attract Stalin's men. Surrounded by undercover agents, Steve and Mischa walk the streets near the screening room, and as planned, they are attacked. With Tata's help, they capture one of the assailants, whom Tata recognizes as one of the Communist agents who tortured him. Tata now returns the favor, torturing the man into confessing that Stalin is in the Greek mountains.

After the agent dies from his injuries, Steve and Mischa travel to the mountains, and there learn from bistro owner Count Molda that a nearby monastery was taken over years earlier by a mysterious group. Curious, Steve and Mischa sneak into the monastery at night, but are immediately captured by the waiting Molda, who introduces them to three other men and their women companions. Unable to discern which man is Stalin, Steve offers them all political asylum in the West, but the men respond by showing them Tata, who has been tortured and killed. They then place Steve and Mischa in a cell next to the imprisoned Lili.

That night, Lili receives a visit from Greta, and although Lili is thrilled to see her sister, Greta attacks her. When Lili pulls at Greta's hair, Greata's wig comes off in her hands, and Lili realizes that her sister has been enslaved and brainwashed. Although the women whip Steve mercilessly, he refuses to talk, and when Steve returns to the cell, Mischa uses his fake arm to bludgeon the guard. The two men then manage to free Lili, and together they stumble onto a room full of stolen cash and burn the currency in the lit fireplace. Just then, Greta bursts in and kills Mischa, forcing Steve to slay her.

Steve and Lili are soon recaptured and taken to Molda, who orders them killed. Just then, however, Jacob enters and shoots Stalin's henchmen. Molda steps forward, tenderly addressing Jacob as "son," but Jacob is unmoved and orders his father at gunpoint into a waiting car. As Steve and Lili follow them in another car, Stalin tries to reason with his son, but Jacob resists, denouncing his father's violence and campaign of terror against their people. Steve pulls up to the car and shoots at Jacob to make him stop. Trapped, Jacob willingly steers the car over a cliff. While Steve and Lili watch the fiery explosion, they note a nearby Biblical inscription reading "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap."

####The Girl Is in Trouble####
August, a Lower East Side bartender, becomes entangled in a murder mystery involving Signe, a desperate woman, Angel, the brother of Jesus, a missing drug dealer and Nicholas, the scion of a powerful investment firm.

####Go####
Around Christmas, Ronna, working overtime at her supermarket job to avoid being evicted, is approached by Adam and Zack to buy 20 hits of ecstasy, which they had hoped to buy from her absent co-worker, Simon.

After work, Ronna approaches Simon's dealer, Todd, for the pills. She is unable to pay the full amount so she leaves her friend Claire with Todd as collateral. Ronna meets with Adam and Zack but grows suspicious of Burke, a stranger accompanying them who presses her for the ecstasy. She flushes the drugs down the toilet and leaves, then steals over-the-counter pills to replace them, helped by Manny, who had covertly swallowed two of the ecstasy pills, unaware of their strength. Ronna gives 20 of the fake pills to Todd. She, Claire, and Manny then go to a rave where she sells the rest of the fake pills as ecstasy.

Todd realizes the pills are fake and pursues Ronna to the rave. Ronna flees, hiding the now incapacitated Manny in an alley and promising to return with her car. Todd confronts her with a gun in the parking lot when she is hit by a car that speeds away, leaving her motionless in a ditch.

The story restarts from the perspective of Simon, who is on a trip to Las Vegas with Marcus, Tiny, and Singh. Simon crashes a wedding and has sex with two of the bridesmaids before they accidentally set their hotel room on fire. Simon and Marcus leave the hotel, stealing a Ferrari whose owner thinks Marcus is a parking valet.

The two go to a strip club where Simon enrages the bouncer, Victor Jr., by groping one of the strippers. Simon shoots Victor Jr. in the arm with a gun that he found in the car. He and Marcus flee to the hotel, rousing Tiny and Singh. A car chase ensues and the four barely escape the bouncer and his father, Victor Sr., but Victor Sr. traces Todd's address from his credit card, which Simon had borrowed.

The story changes perspective to Adam and Zack, actors in a soap opera who are in a relationship. Having been busted for drug possession, they are coerced into working for Burke, a police detective, to entrap their dealer. Adam is fitted with a wire. As Simon is absent, the two arrange to buy drugs from Ronna. When Ronna arrives later to make the deal, Zack secretly warns her so she flushes the drugs down the toilet and leaves.

After the unsuccessful bust, Burke invites Adam and Zack to Christmas dinner, where they observe strange behavior from Burke and his wife, Irene. Over dinner Burke and Irene pitch a multi-level marketing company to Adam and Zack. Discussing their mutual infidelities, Adam and Zack realize they both cheated with the same person, Jimmy. They confront him at the rave, cutting a lock of his hair.

Leaving the rave they accidentally run over Ronna, panic, and drive away when they see Todd with a gun. Zack tries to reassure Adam that, even if Ronna had survived, Todd would have shot her. Adam realizes to his horror that he is still wearing his wire. Fearing they have been recorded, the two return to the scene to remove Ronna's body but discover she is just unconscious. They prop her up on a car, setting off its alarm, and watch from a distance as other partygoers call an ambulance.

As morning breaks, Claire goes to a restaurant to meet up with Ronna and Manny, but encounters Todd instead. The two end up going to Todd's apartment building. While making out on the stairs they are confronted by the two Victors. Simon arrives, having hoped to hide for a few days. The ensuing scuffle is stopped by Claire, who refuses to witness a murder.

Simon agrees to be shot in the arm by Victor Jr. as Claire leaves in disgust. Meanwhile, Ronna wakes up in hospital and hobbles to the supermarket to start work. Realizing she left Manny at the rave, she and Claire return to the venue to find Manny pale and shaking in the alley. The three go to Ronna's car where Ronna muses that she can now pay her rent and Manny asks what their plans are for New Year's.

####Godsend####
Paul and Jessie Duncan are a happily married couple who have an eight-year-old son named Adam. The day after his eighth birthday, when fetching a basketball into the street, Adam is killed in a collision. While leaving a church, Jessie and Paul are confronted by Dr. Richard Wells, an old professor of Jessie's. He offers to clone Adam, an illegal procedure which would require a change of location and identity, to which the Duncans reluctantly agree. Everything appears to be fine with the new Adam until he reaches his eighth birthday. That night, he experiences a violent nightmare. Richard explains to Paul that it is typical for boys his age to have night terrors, and that it is not serious. He explains that because Adam II has reached the age at which the original Adam died, his life cannot be predicted anymore. From that moment on, Adam II continues to have night terrors until they become visions and he starts having them while he is wide awake, losing control of his actions.

Adam's visions are recurrent: he witnesses a boy named Zachary walking around in a school building while being laughed at by other children. These images alternate with images of the school burning, and children screaming, and the image of an unidentified woman being attacked and killed with a hammer. Adam's visions affect his daytime personality, making him bitter, delinquent, and uncooperative. Adam begins to bully another boy that goes to his school. One night at dinner, Jessie receives a telephone call from the parent of that child, distressed that her child is missing. Jessie tells Paul, who then asks what Adam was doing that day. Adam says that he was at the river playing. When Paul asks who he was playing with, Adam responds that he is "not supposed to say". The next day, as the Duncans are driving on their way home over a bridge, they are slowed by a police officer. They walk to the side of the bridge to see the woman who had telephoned about her missing child the previous night, screaming at the sight of her son being retrieved by paramedics from a river where he had drowned. Paul believes Adam was involved with the child's death.

With the help of Richard, Paul examines Adam and talks to him about his visions. He finally finds out that the school in Adam's visions is called Saint Pius and that Zachary's last name is Clark. With this information, Paul is able to track down the child's address and find a former nanny of Zachary. The nanny informs Paul that Zachary was deeply disturbed. He was bullied at school tremendously, and in the wake of his emotions, set fire to the school. When he returned home Zachary killed his mother with a hammer before setting fire to their house, where he burned along with his mother’s body.  When he asks the nanny, Paul learns that Zachary's father was a geneticist&mdash;enough information to uncover that this man was none other than Richard Wells, living now under a false identity. Through the operation to clone Adam, Richard had secretly mixed Adam's DNA with that of Zachary (as the fire damaged Zachary's DNA to where it could not be cloned without the assistance of other living cells) with the hope of bringing his own son back to life, and then kidnapping him. The operation did not yield a complete success. After arguing with Richard and learning what has caused Adam's erratic behavior, Paul races home. He finds Adam and Jessie in the shed in the woods. He has arrived just in time to stop Adam (with Zachary's personality in control) from killing Jessie with a hammer, in nearly the same way as Zachary had killed his mother. Adam's personality manages to regain control, and everything seems to be okay.

In an attempt to shake the psychological transitions from Adam to Zachary, the Duncans escape from Richard and move to a different neighborhood. All seems well. Adam is friendly and happy, but as he is left alone in his room, Adam hears a noise in the closet. When he opens the closet door, a slightly burnt and decayed arm wearing Zachary’s jersey, reaches out from the darkness of the closet and pulls Adam in. Paul comes back to check on Adam and looks in the closet, but he does not see anyone. Adam then appears from behind and shocks Paul by touching him, indicating that Zachary has regained control.

####Gone in the Night####
Middle aged Kath and her slacker boyfriend Max travel several hours to a woodland cabin which Max has rented for the weekend. When they arrive, late at night, they find a car there and a man named Al standing outside claiming that he has already rented it. Just as Max and Kath are about to leave, Al's girlfriend Greta emerges and suggests that the two should stay.

Kath and Max agree to play a romance themed board game to get to know the stand offish Al and the lively, but abrasive, Greta. Kath tells them how she met Max when he was a student of hers.  Tired, Kath goes to bed early while the other three stay up.

The next morning, Kath awakens to find everyone gone.  Venturing into the surrounding woods, she finds Al, crying.  He explains that he found Greta and Max having sex and that the two left together. Angered, Kath returns to the city.

Despite being urged by her friends to move on, Kath decides to try and find Greta and learn what happened.  She locates contact info for the cabin owner and arranges a meeting on a pretext. Kath finds the owner, Nicholas Barlow, to be friendly and charming.

Nicholas helps Kath track Greta to an underground rave.  They split up to search for her and Kath encounters Greta, who apologizes for stealing Max but says that she loves him. Kath and Nicholas become closer as they commiserate over their shared losses.  He explains that he was once a scientist at a biotech start up, but that he gave that life up when his father died of a hereditary disease.  Nicholas says that he has the same disease and is using experimental treatments on himself.

Flashbacks reveal Max leaving a party after an argument with Kath.  He runs into Al and Greta at a liquor store and goes drinking with them.  After asking him some odd questions they invite him to come to a party at the cabin. Greta and Al had sedated Max and kept him hidden until she left. Nicholas, who turns out to be Al's father, arrives at the cabin and discovers what they've done.  Al explains that they want Max to be a test subject for Nicholas' treatments.

In the present Kath visits Nicholas at his cabin.  When he leaves to get some wood for a fire she discovers a picture of him with Al.  In the woods she discovers Max, locked in a shipping container with medical equipment attached.  Nicholas, Al and Greta arrive.  Nicholas tries to convince Kath that what he's doing is okay.  Greta reveals that Nicholas isn't really sick, but is instead using Max as part of a treatment to keep himself youthful.  Kath asks Nicholas to use Greta to give her the same treatment. As Nicholas and Al subdue Greta, Kath frees Max, but a delusional Max pulls out his IV, causing himself to bleed to death. Kath locks Nicholas, Al and Greta in the shipping container and wanders back into the cabin.

####Good Neighbor####
A young woman discovers the fine line between paranoia and having your worst fears become real in this tale of terror. Molly Wright is a typical college student sharing a house off-campus with her friends. Between her criminology classes, trying to keep up with her homework, and working as a volunteer with a local church group, Molly is wearing herself to a frazzle, so many of her friends think her imagination is working overtime when she begins to wonder aloud if Geoffrey Martin, the eccentric artist who has moved into the house next door, might be a serial killer. Molly's friends have a hard time believing her, but Paul Davidson, a police detective, thinks something funny is going on in the neighborhood after a number of missing persons cases are reported. But can Paul build a case against the killer before Molly becomes his next victim?

####Guerrilla Girl####
Under the Axis occupation of Greece in World War II, two lovers resist the Nazis but become separated at the war's end. Years later, he is a Greek government official and she is on the side of the communist revolutionaries. She then finds her lover's name on an execution list.

####H. G. Wells' War of the Worlds####
On the surface of Mars, the Mars rover is destroyed by an unknown force. Astronomer George Herbert (Howell) and his wife Felicity (Van Wyk Loots) are packing for a trip to Washington, D.C. to celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary. George's son Alex spots a meteorite entering Earth's atmosphere. George is called to work about the incident, and his wife and son leave early for D.C. without him. As he drives to work, a meteorite lands. An alien "walker" emerges from the crater and massacres the witnesses with an energy weapon, George barely escaping with his life. George decides to meet with his brother Matt in Hopewell before moving on to Washington, D.C..

Despite rumors that D.C. has suffered some of the worst of the invasion thus far, George moves onward and meets with Sgt. Kerry Williams, the last remaining member of his squad. George and Williams meet with Samuelson, a power-mad Lieutenant with unrealistic notions of resistance against the invaders, who rejects them as cowards. In Hopewell, the walkers launch a heavy insurrection and Matt dies in the trail of destruction. George and Williams are separated in the battle. A pastor, Victor, finds George and describes his belief that the invasion is a form of the Rapture, but remains optimistic. The two go on together towards D.C.. Victor's faith is bruised when a hysterical member of his church curses God for the death of her children. George and Victor witness the final effort of the military against the walkers, who defeat them with toxic gas.

The two seek refuge in the abandoned house of a veterinarian for food and medicine when the neighborhood is flattened by another meteorite, trapping them in the ruins. George observes the aliens harvesting humans while Victor becomes despondent, rejecting his faith. George finds rabies vaccines and plans to use it against the aliens. George successfully injects a curious alien, only for it to kill Victor and leave. Days later, the aliens vanish and George continues his journey on foot to D.C.. George reunites with Williams and a deranged Samuelson, who has given himself a battlefield promotion. Samuelson senselessly murders Williams, and George in turn murders Samuelson.

George finally reaches D.C., which is completely destroyed. George becomes suicidal until he finds that the aliens have all died, having no immunity to a human virus. George finds Felicity and Alex alive among the few human survivors.

####The Harvest####
Charlie Pope (Miguel Ferrer) is a writer who goes to Mexico to write the ending of the plot for a movie. In Mexico he is attracted to a woman, Natalie (Leilani Sarelle). They go together to a beach where when she goes away to swim, he is attacked and wakes up five days later. When he wakes up he discovers that one of his kidneys has been removed. Rather than return he decides to find the "ring" whose members removed his kidney. He begins by tracking down Natalie (whose involvement with the ring he is unsure of). He returns to United States with Natalie. There he is attacked by Noel (Tony Denison) who tells him that the surgery was a failure and they require his other kidney. He learns that Natalie was involved in the ring. When Steve is about to kill Charlie, Natalie intervenes and Charlie is able to kill Steve and turn away the people who have come to remove his other kidney. It seems the end and Charlie is finishing the script when Detective Topo (Henry Silva) comes to meet him and informs him that he has questioned Natalie and she is innocent. Charlie goes out to meet her and sees that she looks identical to the Natalie he traveled with. In the end we hear a telephone conversation between Charlie and his boss (who had sent Charlie to Mexico) and we overhear that his boss has had a kidney transplant.

####The Hateful Eight####
In 1877, bounty hunter and Union veteran Major Marquis Warren is heading to Red Rock, Wyoming, with three bounty corpses. His horse gives out, and faced with an incoming blizzard, Warren hitches a ride on a stagecoach driven by O.B. Jackson. Aboard is bounty hunter John Ruth “The Hangman”, handcuffed to fugitive "Crazy" Daisy Domergue, whom he is taking to Red Rock to be hanged. Warren and Ruth had previously bonded over Warren's personal letter from Abraham Lincoln. Chris Mannix (youngest son of Erskine Mannix, the leader of a Lost-Causer militia, the Mannix Crusaders), who claims to be Red Rock's new sheriff, also joins them. During the trip, Ruth learns about the Confederate bounty on Warren's head for breaking out of and setting fire to a prisoner-of-war camp.

They seek refuge from the blizzard at Minnie's Haberdashery, tended by Bob, a Mexican who claims to be watching the haberdashery in Minnie and her husband Sweet Dave’s absence, saying that they are at her mother's since a week. The lodge shelters local hangman Oswaldo Mobray, cowboy Joe Gage, and elderly Confederate general Sanford Smithers, who is planning to erect a cenotaph for his missing son. Suspicious, Ruth disarms all but Warren. At dinner, Mannix surmises that the Lincoln letter is false. Warren responds to Ruth's disappointment by saying his forged letter buys him leeway with whites.

Warren puts one of his guns next to Smithers and claims that he sexually assaulted and murdered Smithers' son, who had tried to claim the bounty. When Smithers reaches for the gun, Warren kills him in revenge for ordering the slaughter of black prisoners of war at Baton Rouge.

During the confrontation, the coffee is poisoned. Ruth and O.B. drink the coffee; O.B. dies, and Daisy kills the dying Ruth with his own gun. Warren disarms Domergue, leaving her shackled to Ruth's corpse, and holds the others at gunpoint except Mannix, who nearly drank the poisoned coffee himself. Warren deduces by the fact that Bob is lying about looking after the haberdashery for Minnie, as the beef stew Bob said he make has the same taste as Minnie's, that there some covered blood on Sweet Dave's own chair (which the latter would brought it with him if he was away) and Minnie hates Mexicans, and executes him. When Warren threatens to poisoning Daisy, Gage admits he poisoned the coffee. An unknown man hiding under the floorboards shoots Warren in the groin, and Mobray and Mannix shoot and wound one another.

A flashback shows Bob, Mobray, Gage, and Daisy's brother Jody arriving at the lodge hours earlier. They murdered Minnie, Sweet Dave, and all the employees and customers except Smithers, which they make a deal with him; if said nothing about what happened, he lives. Once they finished hiding the bodies and cleaning the store, Jody hid in the cellar, as Ruth, Daisy, O.B., Warren and Mannix has arrived.

In the present, Warren and Mannix, both seriously wounded, hold Daisy, Gage, and Mobray at gunpoint. When they threaten to kill Daisy, Jody surrenders and is executed by Warren. The surviving gang members claim fifteen hired guns are waiting in Red Rock and offer a deal: If Mannix kills Warren, they will spare him and allow him to collect the bounty on the dying Mobray and the deceased Bob (revealing that their real names are "English" Pete Hicox and Marco "the Mexican", respectively). Warren shoot a still-dying Hicox when he tries to persuade Mannix; Warren and Mannix then kill Gage (revealing that his real name is "Crouch Douglass") when he reveals his pistol hidden under the table.

Mannix hears out Daisy’s proposal but decides she is lying. When Mannix faints from blood loss, Daisy hacks off Ruth’s arm and goes for a gun, but Mannix reawakens and wounds her. The two men hang Daisy from the rafters in honor of Ruth (has his nickname was "the Hangman", as he always brought his bounties to the gallows). As they lie dying, Mannix reads aloud Warren's fake Lincoln letter.

####Heartthrob####
Shortly after high school graduation, Henry (Keir Gilchrist), the shy valedictorian, encounters Samantha (Aubrey Peeples), who suffers from a reputation as a bimbo at school.

They argue at first about their preconceptions of each other, but later Henry apologizes and offers Samantha a ride home when her shift at work ends. He is overjoyed to find romance with her, but is incensed by the knowledge of her past relations with others and kills one of her former lovers.

Henry is accepted to MIT, the university of choice of his domineering mother, but he drops out in order to stay in town with Samantha, who has been warned about his obsessive behavior and who breaks up with him to allow him to attend the better university.

Henry is convinced that she is being pressured into leaving him and targets those he believes are responsible. He kills her close friend Dustin and then proceeds to call Samantha and tell her that he had worked things out with MIT, and invites her to his house to celebrate.

While eating a homemade dinner there, she hears a thumping from an upstairs bedroom and discovers Henry's mother tied to a chair. Henry pulls out a knife and offers to either release his mother or kill her to solve their relationship problems, admitting that he was responsible for Dustin's death.

Samantha convinces him to release his mother, who escapes out his bedroom window and runs from the house screaming for help. Henry begs Samantha to run away with him but she refuses. Realizing that Samantha is different in the way that she doesn't need anyone, and also content with the fact that she loved him, he says one final "I love you" and stabs himself in the chest, dying on the spot.

Two days after his death Samantha receives Henry's journal in the mail. She decides to keep it a secret and thinks back to all the time that they spent together. Her shrink says that the relationship was unhealthy, and even though she accepts it, she knows that Henry truly loved her and saw her differently than everyone else.

The movie ends with Samantha sitting on the floor of the skating ring, where Henry brought her to on their first date. She then says "I love you, Henry,"  something which she deeply regrets not saying to him when he was alive.

####Held for Ransom####
Five spoiled high-school students are kidnapped and held for ransom in a remote swamp area.

####Hell's Five Hours####
Burt Nash is a labourer at a rocket fuel factory who is fired and beaten up by his foreman Jack Fife because he smoked a cigarette in a non-smoking area. Nash decides on revenge where he enters the rocket fuel factory by cutting through a security fence. Nash kills a guard, takes his service revolver and uses it to ignite one of the fuel tanks. He returns to obliterate the entire factory by making himself a human bomb with stolen dynamite after he abducts the wife and child of the head of the plant, Mike Brand to use as hostages. A plan is put into place where all the rocket fuel can be pumped out of the factory via a pipeline, but the process will take five hours. Brand is joined by an FBI Special Agent and a police psychiatrist to prevent the entire surrounding town from being destroyed by an inferno.

####Her Costly Affair####
Dr. Diane Weston is a college professor who teaches English literature. Not entirely happy with her life, she trusts a colleague Sally with her desire of an adventurous life. Because she is not getting a lot of sympathy from her husband Carl and teenage daughter Tess, she isn't bothered with the special attention of Jeff. Jeff is a transfer student he moved after the mysterious death of his girlfriend. He immediately falls in love with Diane and explains that she reminds him of his former girlfriend. She initially denies his attempts to seduce her and focuses on recapturing the passion with her husband. However, when he cancels a romantic trip with her to attend a tennis match with Tess, she agrees to accompany Jeff on a trip.

Unwantedly feeling attracted to him, she agrees to sleep with him, but soon regrets this decision. She immediately ends their affair, but he isn't willing to stop seeing her and shows aggressive behavior. Diane soon notices that he is stalking her and he even goes as far as raping her at a public library. She later threatens to step to the police, but he responds by saying he will tell Carl about their affair if she does. Because he is continuing to harass her, she starts to collect information about his past. She eventually finds out that the death of his girlfriend Ann was a suicide, although Jeff was the prime suspect of murder for a long time. She is further on shocked to hear that Ann was his college professor.

Afraid of what will happen, she admits the whole story to Sally, who advises her to admit what happened to Carl. Later that day, she finds out that Jeff dropped out of college and moved town. Diane finally thinks her life will turn back to normal, until it turns out that Tess' new boyfriend Jack is actually Jeff. She threatens to kill him if he ever sees Tess again and later forbids her from spending time with him, which only leads to an estrangement. The next day, she pretends to be in love with him to help him get counseling, but finds out later that day that he went into the woods with Carl and Tess to go shooting. Worried about them, she admits everything to Carl upon their return. Upset, Carl sends her away and she is soon harassed by Jeff. She tries to run away to a rooftop, but he catches her and admits to the murder of Ann. They threaten to fall off, but are rescued by Carl and Sally. In the end, Jeff is arrested and Diane reunites with Carl.

####Hideout####
A couple of thieves, Beecham and Evans, rob a Chicago socialite's diamond necklace. They give it to the man they're working for, Arthur Burdette, who promptly double-crosses them. A diamond expert who examines the necklace is then found dead.

Burdette slips away to a small Iowa town under an assumed name. When he hears city attorney George Browning has fired secretary Hannah Kelly, he offers Hannah a job. Browning has no idea that Burdette and Hannah are actually accomplices in crime, and pays no heed when new secretary Edie Hanson suggests that possibility.

Betrayed crooks Beecham and Evans show up, looking for Burdette and the necklace. Browning doesn't realize how involved Hannah is until she shoots the two thieves and ends up having the stolen necklace on her. Edie helps him get the better of Hannah and Burdette, also making Browning realize he's falling for the new girl.

####Hindsight####
Young and broke couple Dina (Miranda Bailey) and Ron (Waylon Payne) put their unborn baby up for adoption online. They get a response from a wealthy married couple, Paul (Jeffrey Donovan) and Maria (Leonor Varela), who are willing to pay up front for the adoption. Dina and Ron arrive at their home and are welcomed in. But, Ron and Dina have a plan in their mind. They are to take their money to buy a new home and not give them the baby. However, Maria and Paul fight back.

####Hitchhike!####
A Los Angeles woman, traveling to San Francisco to visit her sister, picks up a hitchhiker who turns out to be a psychotic killer.

####Hollywood Story####
New York theatrical producer Larry O'Brien (Conte) plans to found a motion picture company in Hollywood. He buys an old studio which has remained unused since the days of silent movies. There he's shown the office where a famous director was murdered twenty years earlier. Although there were many suspects the case hasn't been solved. O'Brien becomes fascinated by the subject and decides to make a film based on the case. To this end he begins interviewing the surviving participants, hiring many to work on and in the film, and soon gets into danger himself.

####The Host####
Small parasitic aliens called "Souls", who travel to planets inserting themselves into a host body of that planet's dominant species while suppressing the host's consciousness, have taken over the human race. Deeming humans too violent to deserve the planet, they have now almost successfully conquered Earth. The original owner's consciousness is erased, but the Souls can access the host's memories, and occupied hosts are identifiable by silver rings in their eyes.

A human on the run, Melanie Stryder, is captured and infused with a Soul called "Wanderer", whom a "Seeker" soul has asked to access Melanie's memories and learn the location of a pocket of unassimilated humans. Melanie's consciousness, however, has not been completely eliminated; she and Wanderer carry out an internal conversation and debate with each other, eventually becoming friends.

Wanderer tells Seeker that Melanie was traveling with her brother, Jamie, and her boyfriend, Jared Howe, to find Melanie's uncle Jeb in the desert. Wanderer admits that Melanie is still present, so Seeker decides to be transferred into Melanie's body to get the information herself. With Melanie’s guidance, Wanderer escapes to the desert, where Jeb finds her and takes her to a series of caves inside a mountain where the humans (including Jared and Jamie) are hiding.

Wanderer's presence is met with hostility by all but Jeb and Jamie. Melanie instructs Wanderer not to tell anyone she is still alive, since it would provoke them, though she later allows her to tell Jamie. Wanderer begins interacting with the humans and slowly starts gaining their trust, bonding with Ian O'Shea.

Seeker leads a search party into the desert. They intercept one of the shelter's supply teams, and in the ensuing chase, Aaron and Brandt commit suicide to avoid capture. During the chase, Seeker accidentally kills another Soul, leading her superiors to call off the search.

Jared and Kyle move to kill Wanderer, causing Jamie to reveal that Melanie's consciousness is alive. Jeb and Ian accept this, but Jared refuses to believe it until he strategically kisses Wanderer, provoking Melanie to take back control and slap him, proving to Jared that she is still alive. Kyle tries to kill Wanderer but endangers his own life, and Wanderer ends up saving him. Ian believes that Kyle attacked Wanderer and tells her he has feelings for her. Wanderer admits that Melanie's body is compelled to love Jared, but she has feelings of her own, and the two kiss.

Wanderer enters the community's medical facility and is shocked to discover that Doc has been experimenting with ways to remove Souls and allow the host's mind to regain control, resulting in the deaths of many Souls and hosts. After isolating herself for several days, Wanderer learns that Jamie is critically ill with an infection in his leg. She infiltrates a Soul medical facility to steal some alien medicine, saving Jamie's life.

Seeker has continued looking for Wanderer on her own, but Jeb captures her. Wanderer offers to show Doc how to properly remove Souls, on the condition that he later remove her from Melanie's body. Doc uses the technique to remove Seeker from her host, with both host and Soul surviving. Wanderer takes Seeker’s tiny alien form to a Soul space-travel site, where she sends it so far from Earth that it can not return for numerous generations.

Tired of the many lives she’s lived and finding it too painful to leave everyone behind, Wanderer makes Doc promise to let her die when she is removed and not tell anyone. The others in the shelter intervene with Doc, who inserts Wanderer into a brain-dead human body, after the Soul inside her was removed. Now with a body of her own, Wanderer is able to be with Ian, while Melanie reunites with Jared.

A few months later, while on a supply run, Wanderer, Melanie, Ian and Jared are captured. They discover that their captors are humans, who reveal that there are several other human groups as well. They also learn that a Soul with this group has sided with the human resistance, as Wanderer has, and they may not be the last Souls to do so.

####The Hunted####
Paul Racine (Lambert), a tech executive from New York City, is on a business trip to Nagoya. He meets a woman, Kirina (Chen), in the hotel lounge, and they have a one-night stand. After they part ways, Kirina is approached by Kinjo (Lone) and two henchmen. Kinjo is the leader of the Makato cult, an organization of ninja assassins that was hired to kill her. He boasts that no one has seen his face and lived. Kirina shows no fear of dying, so he grants her final wish to show her his face. Racine returns, looking for his room key, and tries to defend Kirina, but he is late. Kinjo decapitates her as his men stab Racine, hit him with a poisoned shuriken and cut his throat, leaving him for dead.

Racine awakens in a hospital room, but his claims of his encounter with ninjas are met with disbelief by the police. Lieutenant Wadakura (Okada) dismisses the allegation and suspects that the murder is the work of a yakuza syndicate. Racine is approached by Ijuro Takeda (Harada), an expert on the cult and on Kinjo. Takeda claims Racine's life is in danger as he has seen Kinjo's face. Racine also finds out that Takeda is the last in a samurai line and has a feud with Kinjo. The ninjas attempt to finish Racine off at the hospital, killing several hospital staff and police officers, including Wadakura, but he escapes. Takeda and his wife Mieko (Shimada) subsequently take him to their family's stronghold, located on an island several hundred miles away. Leaving the city, Takeda secretly uses Racine as bait to draw Kinjo out, leading to a battle on the train where several passenger cars of innocent people are slaughtered by the ninjas. Takeda and Mieko kill the attackers, but discover that Kinjo did not take part in the assault. The ninjas' leader was Junko (Natsuki), Kinjo's lover; her death increases Kinjo's motivation to kill Racine and Takeda.

During the boat ride to the island, Mieko explains the history of the conflict between the two clans and the samurai concepts of courage and honor to Racine. On the island, Racine spends time with the drunken bladesmith Oshima (Kubota), who is constructing a katana for Takeda. Despite the language barrier, the old man teaches him about smithing and swordsmanship. Meanwhile, Kinjo decides to find out who hired his clan to murder Kirina. The man he finds, Nemura (Saito), is a powerful yakuza figure who bought Kirina from her uncle, a pimp, then ordered her death when she left him after years of servitude. Disgusted that he killed an innocent woman over such a petty grievance, Kinjo kills the man.

Three weeks after Kirina's death, Takeda's new sword is ready, and Racine's injuries have healed. Takeda arrives at the island and is dismayed to find that Oshima has been training Racine. He humiliates Racine in a friendly duel. When Racine announces that he wants to leave the island and return home to New York, Takeda has him imprisoned and alerts Kinjo of his whereabouts. Hordes of ninjas arrive, overwhelming Takeda's inexperienced samurai, but Takeda gets the duel with Kinjo he wanted. Kinjo is victorious, stabbing Takeda through the torso; Takeda in turn stabs Kinjo in the leg, but soon dies.

As Kinjo is about to kill a helpless Mieko he is caught off-guard by Racine, whom Oshima had released on Mieko's instructions. Racine stabs Kinjo in the right shoulder, hurting his dominant arm. However, he is armed with only a sword he barely knows how to use. With his newfound skills and assistance from Mieko, Racine manages to decapitate Kinjo. Oshima then arrives in battle gear, and is annoyed to find all the ninjas dead. Racine, Mieko, and Oshima walk up the hill toward the family castle.

####Hush####
Newlyweds Helen and Jackson live together in New York City. At the beginning of the film, the two are driving towards the Kentucky farmhouse, Kilronan, where Jackson grew up, primarily to introduce Helen to Jackson's mother, Martha, during the Christmas holidays. They arrive late in the evening and go straight to bed. The next morning Helen awakens to Martha arranging the room, as she thought Helen was asleep in the other bedroom. During their stay Martha tries to convince Jackson to stay to help her run the farm. Helen notices that Martha cleans their room and arranges their things every day, including Helen's contraceptive.

After returning to New York in the new year, Helen discovers she is pregnant after getting violently ill at work. When she informs Jackson of this, he asks her to marry him and she accepts. The wedding is held at Kilronan, where Helen meets Jackson's paternal grandmother, Alice, who tells Helen she doesn't trust Martha. Alice points out Martha is extremely smart and capable of doing the farmwork of four men. Before Alice can say more Martha interrupts.

After the wedding they return to their New York apartment. One night after work, Helen is assaulted by a burglar who steals her locket and makes sexual advances. When Helen tells him she's pregnant, he cuts her abdomen and leaves. The fetus is not injured.

Martha arrives unannounced, saying she wants to sell Kilronan because she cannot run it alone. Helen tells Jackson she wants to move to Kentucky and in with Martha for a year and help renovate the land. Jackson tells Helen that his father, Jack, died in the house when he was seven; Jackson blames himself because he ran into his father, pushing him down the stairs to his death. Jackson also tells Helen that his father had been cheating on Martha with a woman named Robin Hayes. Helen says they should go back to the farm so Jackson can face his "old ghosts".

The couple move in with Martha, who attempts to divide them with subversive comments and manipulating the family friends and neighbors. When Helen goes to the doctor, she finds out Martha told him Helen wanted to have the baby at the house, even though Helen had never said that. Suspicious and increasingly annoyed, Helen talks to Alice, who tells her that Jackson is not responsible for his father's death. When Jack fell, his sternum was supposedly crushed by the nail puller that he fell onto at the bottom of the stairs; according to news reports, this was a freak accident. When Helen returns that evening she finds Jackson calling around asking for her whereabouts with Martha hovering close by. Helen's frigid attitude toward her mother-in-law prompts Martha to visit Alice and warn her to stay away from them.

Having had enough of Martha's manipulations, Helen tells Jackson that Martha is tearing their marriage apart. He agrees to go back to New York and tells his mother, who appears to accept it gracefully. Martha is completely convinced the baby will be a boy, and that Helen is a bad influence on her son and unborn grandchild.

Jackson leaves the farm on a work call, leaving Helen and Martha alone. That evening, Martha bakes a strawberry cheesecake for Helen laced with pitocin, a labor inducer. Helen wakes up the next morning, feeling strange. She discovers a baby room set up by Martha and finds her stolen locket amongst the baby clothes. When Martha unexpectedly enters the room, Helen tries unsuccessfully to escape, driving to a neighboring farm and coming face to face with her attacker from New York, a neighbor of Martha's, then attempting to escape on foot before Martha captures her at the side of the highway.

Reluctantly, Helen gives birth at the house, with Martha looking on, offering assistance, but refusing to give Helen painkillers. Martha leaves the room to answer a phone call from Jackson. She tells him that everything is okay, but when Helen screams in pain, Martha hangs up.

Helen eventually gives birth to a healthy boy. She begs Martha to hand her the baby, but Martha ignores her, telling the baby she is his mother. Martha tries to inject a needle full of morphine in Helen's arm, but Helen knocks the syringe away. By the time Martha retrieves it, she hears Jackson's footsteps in the house. In a scramble, she quickly cleans up, meeting Jackson at the door with the newborn baby. She tells him to leave Helen alone, as he has no idea what she's been through. The two leave Helen asleep, and Martha gives the baby to Jackson.

That night, Martha enters Helen's bedroom with the syringe, but she finds Jackson awake in a chair next to the bed. Despite his mother's insistence that he return to bed, he stays, thereby thwarting her plan. The next morning, Helen awakens to see Jackson with the baby. As Helen finally holds her child she tells Jackson to ask Martha to make breakfast for them.

At breakfast, Helen enters the house with an object in her bag, which turns out to be the nail puller that killed Jack.  She then proceeds to tell Jackson the whole truth about his father's death, revealing that Martha, not Jack, was the one having an affair with Robin Hayes, who was a male horse wrangler and not a woman as Jackson had been told by Martha. When Jack discovered the affair, he decided to leave Martha, who staged the 'accident' to get rid of him and tricked Jackson into believing that he was responsible for it in order to keep him under her thumb for the rest of his life.  Helen also shows Jackson a vicious bruise from Martha's attempt to murder her so she could have him and their son to herself. Martha denies everything and says that Helen cannot prove anything. However, Jackson by now has remembered that Martha was pulling nails off the shed on the day his father died, and thus has realized the truth of Helen's words. This causes Jackson to angrily disown Martha from their lives, sever all ties with her, and announce the sale of Kilronan and its contents. Enraged and unwilling to admit her own faults, Martha desperately attempts to persuade Jackson that Helen is coming between them out of jealousy, claiming that Helen wants to be her. Helen dismissively shuts Martha up by slapping her to the ground, and she and Jackson then leave the house with their baby in their arms, while a defeated Martha breaks down sobbing on the floor, her hopes permanently destroyed and forever dashed.

In the final scene, the couple visit Alice before they leave for good, presenting her with her great-grandson.

####The I Inside####
Simon Cable wakes up in a hospital bed, confused and disoriented. He soon discovers from doctors that he has amnesia and is unable to remember the last two years of his life. Cable investigates what has happened to him and slowly pieces together his enigmatic past.

####I.T.####
Mike Regan is a self-made aviation tycoon who lives in a state-of-the-art smart house full of modern technology with his wife Rose and 17-year-old daughter Kaitlyn. Mike's company is developing an app called "Omni Jet" which will increase business while the company raises much-needed financial capital with a stock offering. However, it requires U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approval.

At the company, Mike meets Ed Porter, a 28-year-old information technology (I.T.) consultant and calls him to fix his home's Wi-Fi signal, which his daughter complains is slow. The password is revealed here to be "ReganHouse1" which lacks Password strength, an indicator of Regan's lack of security.  Porter also upgrades the Global Positioning System (GPS) in Mike's car and claims that he also worked at the National Security Agency (NSA) and had taken part in a military exercise in Kandahar.

Porter meets Kaitlyn and starts a relationship with her through social media, but Mike fires him after Kaitlyn invites Porter into the house; this ends his promising career at the company. Devastated, Porter begins to remotely access Mike's private data and his house as he covertly monitors them through the security cameras and devices all over the smart house. He also spies on Kaitlyn and secretly records her masturbating in the shower.

Porter sends fake emails to Mike's clients and the SEC, threatening the company's survival. He also takes full control of the house's technology, which leaves the family terrified. He uses a spoof email to send Rose fake mammogram results, saying that she tested positive for breast cancer. Rose is extremely distressed, but her test results were actually negative according to her attending physician. After Mike becomes aware that Porter has done this, he attacks Porter and threatens to kill him if he does not stay away from his family.

Porter then uploads the video of Kaitlyn masturbating online, immediately catching the attention of her schoolmates; she is mortified and blames her father for installing the technology in their house. Angered, Mike drives to see Porter but he is also being monitored by Porter, who mockingly telephones him through the car navigation system and sends him the video. Porter then remotely deactivates the car's brake system, hitting a nearby stalled truck and destroying the car.

Mike requests help from Henrik, an I.T. expert, who says that Mike must destroy all the smart technology in the house and delete his emails, bank accounts and computer files. Henrik explains that Porter's real name is Richard Edward Portman and that his father committed suicide when Porter was six years old. He also reveals that he never worked for the NSA, as he claimed, and the photograph of him with soldiers in Kandahar was fake. To allow Mike to obtain evidence from Porter's apartment, Henrik creates a diversion by stealing the phone of a waitress at a coffee shop with whom Porter's obsessed and texting Porter, telling him to come to the coffee shop. While Porter is gone, Mike manages to get in his apartment and steal several thumb drives containing evidence, escaping just as Porter returns to his apartment after realising it was a diversion. Porter realises the masked man that he saw in his apartment was Mike, so he frames him for assault, prompting the police to arrest Mike when trying to provide the evidence from the thumb drives to the police.

After being released, Mike returns home to find Kaitlyn and Rose tied and gagged by Porter, who holds them at gunpoint. Shortly afterwards a struggle ensues; Porter shoots a window and Mike punches Porter, who hits his head and lies dying as Mike holds the gun to his chest, but Rose begs Mike not to kill him.

Some time later, the company's employees applaud Mike and his family for successfully developing the app and their house is restored.

####Identical####
Identical twins, Mark and Rich, are born, one of them is good and the other one is evil. Even though they need each other to live, each brother deeply hates the other. When they both fall in love with the same woman, the hate increases, inevitably ending in murder.

####Impulse####
Lottie Mason is an LAPD officer who works vice squad as a decoy prostitute. She is faced with a number of problems in her career, including being sexually harassed by her superior, Lieutenant Joe Morgan. As part of her work agreement, Lottie regularly visits with Dr. Gardner, a psychiatrist, where she confesses that she finds her sting operations thrilling, and that she often fantasizes about "losing control." Stan Harris, a detective in the department, begins to romance Lottie. She is initially evasive, but the two soon go on a date together and become intimate.

After an intense sting operation ends with Lottie killing a drug dealer and two of his thugs, she heads home, rattled, and suffers a tire blowout en route. She pulls into a gas station to have a serviceman replace the tire and has a drink at a bar across the street while she waits. At the bar, she is approached by Tony Perón, a mobster and key witness in the pending trial of a kingpin named Luna; Tony has recently fled New York City and gone into hiding in Los Angeles. Unaware of his identity, Lottie coyly pretends to be a prostitute, introducing herself using the pseudonym "Carla". Tony asks Lottie to accompany him back to a mansion in Beverly Hills, to which she impulsively agrees. Once there, Lottie excuses herself to the bathroom, only to hear gunshots ring out moments later. She hides in the bathroom as a killer wanders through the home before leaving. When she returns downstairs, Lottie finds Tony's dead body. Lottie wipes away her fingerprints in the bathroom and phones 911, disguising her voice. In Tony's pocket, she finds an airport locker key, which she takes with her. Shortly after, police—Stan among them—arrive at the crime scene.

A curious Lottie drives to the Los Angeles International Airport to access the locker and is shocked to find a suitcase inside full of $1 million in hundred-dollar bills. She leaves the suitcase in the locker and returns home, only to find coverage of Tony's murder on national news. Stan and other law enforcement interview witnesses at the bar who saw Tony leave with Lottie, and a forensic sketch is created. Lottie returns to the airport and absconds with the suitcase, which she hides in her apartment, unsure of what to do with it.

Lottie visits Stan and spends the night at his house, during which the two have sex. In the morning, Lottie attempts to confess to him what happened, but is unable to. While studying the sketch and 911 audio tapes, Stan begins to suspect Lottie may be the mysterious "Carla". That night, he returns home drunk and confronts Lottie about Tony's murder, believing that she killed him; however, Lottie explains what occurred, though Stan remains angry and betrayed. The next day, Stan visits the district attorney with a plan to set up Tony's killer: As part of the plot, a local Los Angeles newscaster announces a false "new development" in the case, parading footage of a sunglasses-clad Lottie, who proclaims that she can identify the killer.

That night, Lottie stakes out in an abandoned house, waiting for the killer. A stranger arrives, but soon leaves when police close in. When they finally stop the man, he claims he is innocent and was paid $50 by an unknown man to deliver Lottie flowers. Stan and the other detectives rush back to the house, where the killer has descended upon the scene, murdering the surveilling officer outside. When the killer—revealed to be a man named Vic Dimarjian—enters the house, Lottie shoots him to death. Before dying, Vic tells Stan he killed Tony to prevent himself from having to testify against Luna.

Lottie resigns from the LAPD and decides to take a vacation. Morgan, suspicious that Lottie has Tony's missing money from a drug killing in New York, is abrasive to her as she leaves the department. He follows her to the airport and confronts her as she opens the airport locker. Forcing her into a bathroom, Morgan grows enraged when he finds the suitcase full of baseball cards. Stan arrives moments later and incapacitates Morgan before giving Lottie the keys to his car, where he tells her he has stored Tony's money in the trunk. Lottie goes to retrieve the cash but decides against it. She returns inside to the airport bar, where she insists that Stan turn it in to authorities before joining him for a drink.

####In a Valley of Violence####
A drifter named Paul and his dog, Abbie, make their way towards Mexico through the desert of the Old West in the early 1870s. They encounter Priest, a two-bit gunslinger who tries to steal his horse after claiming that his mule is about to give out on him, but Paul whistles and Abbie attacks the would-be robber. Paul takes Priest's bullets and his water canteen, before pouring out his bottle of whiskey on the man's wounds and leaving.

Paul enters Denton, a former boomtown on its last legs. In the tavern, Paul meets Gilly, an obnoxious and cocky young man who issues a challenge to fight when Paul threatens him. Gilly approaches Abbie to coax Paul outside, and Paul drops him with a single punch. As Gilly's fiancée Ellen rushes to his aid, Paul heads to the inn, where he meets Ellen's younger sister Mary-Anne. She thanks him for standing up to Gilly and draws Paul and Abbie a bath. U.S. Marshal Clyde Martin, Gilly's father, meets Paul in the inn. Clyde assured Paul that he knows Gilly provoked him but that won't tolerate an assault on one of his deputies. After identifying Paul as an ex-soldier, Clyde tells him to leave Denton in the morning. Mary-Anne gives Paul a picture to remember her by.

That night, Paul and Abbie are jumped by Gilly and his fellow deputies Tubby, Roy, and Harris as they try to sleep. Gilly accuses Paul of being a deserter and shoots and stabs Abbie to death. He then has Roy and Harris push Paul off a nearby cliff, expecting the fall to kill him but not bothering to check. Paul wakes up the next day, buries Abbie and tells her that he is going to break his promise to her that he would never take another life. On his way back to town, Paul runs into Priest, and takes his mule and revolver.

In Denton, Mary-Anne shelters Paul and offers help. She begs Paul to take her away after he gets revenge, as she has no future in Denton. He refuses, telling her that he abandoned his wife and daughter to enlist in the army and could not bear to see them again after the atrocities he committed. At the hotel, Paul slits Roy's throat as he is bathing. Clyde is alerted to the situation and realizes what Gilly did. He has Harris lock up the jailhouse arsenal and station himself on the roof while Gilly guards the hotel. Gilly accuses Mary-Anne of aiding Paul and while arguing Ellen reveals to Gilly that she is pregnant with his child.

Paul ambushes Harris and forces him to fire on Clyde and Tubby as they make their way to the jailhouse; neither man is hit, but Paul then grabs Harris's rifle, kills him, and throws his body into the street. Inside the jailhouse, upset at the deaths of Roy and Harris, Tubby throws down his gun and starts arguing with Clyde. Paul shoots Tubby in the back through a window. Clyde agrees to disarm himself and surrender so he and Paul can talk. Gilly then comes out of the hotel to kill Paul, but Clyde gets between them to try and negotiate. Gilly and Paul shoot at each other with Clyde between them, fatally shooting him in the process.

Paul, wounded and out of bullets, hides in a nearby stable. When Gilly enters, Paul slips a noose over his head and attempts to hang him before dropping him still breathing to the ground after his injuries kick in. Paul then resorts to beating Gilly with his own boot. As a blood-covered Gilly draws his knife, Mary-Anne appears and shoots him in the back with Tubby's gun. Mary-Anne and Paul make their way back to the inn, while a guilt-ridden Ellen finds Gilly's body. Priest wanders back into Denton and Paul tells him that he should stay, because "we could all use a little saving."

####The In Crowd####
When Adrien Williams is released from a mental institution, her former doctor Henry Thompson immediately tries to get her back on her feet by getting her a job at a country club on the East Coast, where she is introduced to the lifestyle of the snooty, rich "beautiful people".

Brittany Foster, a young woman who lives in the area, befriends Adrien and takes her under her wing, accepting her as part of a clique of wealthy teenagers. Brittany's group of friends make comments about how much Adrien looks like Brittany's older sister Sandra who had moved away. At first she enjoys being a close confidant of Brittany but Adrien soon begins to discover how twisted Brittany actually is when Matt Curtis, an object of Brittany's affection, begins to show an interest in Adrien.

Brittany sets out to get rid of Adrien, by stealing her file from Henry's office and discovers Adrien's past. Adrien's revelation of Brittany is much more disturbing, when she discovers that Sandra used to be "queen bee" of this circle of friends and that she often treated Brittany badly. Brittany is furious that her best friend Kelly deceived her when she overhears her explaining the situation of her missing sister to Adrien. To keep her secret under wraps, she drowns Kelly and later kills Henry, pinning the blame on Adrien. Her supervisor knew about Adrien's stay at the mental institution and readily believes Adrien to be the killer.

With the help of Bobby, one of Brittany's friends, Adrien escapes the mental institution. Adrien heads back to the country club, where everyone is attending an end-of-summer party. Using the information that Kelly told her, and putting together some odds and ends Adrien realizes that Brittany had actually killed Sandra and faked her moving away. Adrien shows up at the country club dressed as Sandra. Brittany sees who she believes to be her sister and starts to freak out. Brittany heads to the woods and unearths Sandra's body, just to prove that she is, in fact dead.  Adrien confronts her, and is attacked by Brittany and just before she tries to murder her, verbally confesses why she killed her sister. Hearing the fight everyone gathers outside to witness that Brittany is insane and that she killed her sister. Adrien moves on and leaves the country club, and it is Brittany who ends up in the mental institution. The last scene shows Brittany using her beauty and womanly wiles on a male orderly, with the audience led to believe that she would more than likely escape the mental institution.

####In Darkness####
Sofia McKendrick (Natalie Dormer) is a blind pianist who lives in an apartment in London, and is haunted by the murder of her family by Serbian paramilitaries. Her neighbor is Veronique (Emily Ratajkowski), the daughter of Serbian philanthropist Zoran Radic (Jan Bijvoet), who has committed war crimes during the Bosnian War, and currently suspected of running criminal organizations. Despite the controversy surrounding Veronique's family, Sofia appears to have an amicable relationship with her, although lately has been noticing something wrong with her. During a discussion in an elevator, Veronique slips Sofia a USB drive and tells her that the perfume is Liquid Gold. One night, Sofia overhears a struggle occurring in Veronique's room and witnesses Veronique fall to her death. Despite this, Sofia denies witnessing anything to the police Detective Mills (Neil Maskell), while discreetly holding the USB drive.

Later at an event hosted by Radic, Sofia performs and overhears Radic and his associates discussing the circumstances of Veronique's death, in the process revealing that he was the one behind it. Radic's head of security Alexandra Gordon (Joely Richardson) and her brother Marc (Ed Skrein) have a discreet conversation and it is revealed that Veronique was twelve weeks pregnant and that Marc was sent to kill her; it is also revealed that Marc was having an affair with her and is likely the father of her child. Radic forms a fixation on Sofia for her connection to Veronique, and Sofia ends up having to dodge police questions and Radic's men looking over Veronique's apartment.

Marc rescues Sofia from a rape attempt and later saves her from an attempted kidnapping and torture. Sofia spends some time with Marc and learns of his and Veronique's affair, and he explains to her that Veronique committed suicide out of paranoia. This in turn leads to an affair between Marc and Sofia. As it turns out Sofia has her own vendetta towards Radic, as she confides in her adopted father Niall (James Cosmo), and gives him the USB drive and reveals that Liquid Gold is the drive's password, which reveals Radic's assets and his criminal operations. Sofia recounts how while she was blind, she had a sister, Balma, who could see but would pretend to be blind for her sister's benefit. It's revealed that Sofia's family were once friends with Radic in Bosnia, but Radic betrayed her family and personally led the paramilitaries in the massacre of Sofia's family. Niall was a soldier who rescued and protected Sofia for years while she was planning revenge. In addition to this, it's discovered that Veronique has been planning to expose the truth of her father's crimes, but knew that her days were numbered; this was the reason she gave Sofia the USB drive.

Sofia learns that Alexandra is also looking for the USB drive, hoping to use the information to usurp Radic and his operations. Sofia hands Alexandra a copy of the drive in exchange for a private audience with Radic at Veronique's funeral. There, Sofia holds a blade to Radic's throat and he realizes the truth of Sofia's past and motives; Radic taunts Sofia by revealing he was in love with her mother, and that he raped her shortly before she gave birth to a daughter; Radic implies and is under the impression that Sofia is his biological daughter. Radic leaves the funeral as Sofia is emotionally devastated by these revelations. As Detective Mills looks into Sofia's past, it's also discovered that "Sofia" is an alias; the "real" Sofia was Niall's biological daughter who died in infancy, and Niall named Balma "Sofia" after taking her in. Niall soon passes away while in the hospital.

When Radic discovers Alexandra's treachery, and orders her to be killed; despite the appeal from his sister, Marc leaves Alexandra to die due to her indirect involvement with his unborn child's death. Radic drives to Sofia's apartment with the intent on personally killing her, while Marc rushes to her rescue. Meanwhile, Detective Mills is watching surveillance of Sofia's visit earlier in the front office and he notices Sofia looking at something. As he went to get coffee in the front office, he realizes she analyzed Marc's wanted poster and makes his way to her apartment. As a fight ensues, Marc takes out Radic's men, while Sofia initially holds her own despite her seeming disadvantage. Radic quickly gets the upper hand and prepares to kill Sofia, until Sofia reaches a piece of broken mirror and moves to impale Radic's neck with it.  However, just then Marc barges in and shoves Radic out the window. Radic falls onto a spiked fence, where he's impaled and dies.

As Sofia tends to Marc's wounds, there is a final revelation; Sofia was never blind and could see the whole time. Flashbacks show that during the massacre of her family, her blind sister was the one who was killed while they were hiding. Sofia, real name Balma, took her deceased sister's identity and feigned blindness for years. Because she could see, she saw a "Wanted Poster" and realizes that Marc is a wanted fugitive. The film ends as Marc encourages her to run, while he takes the fall for Radic's death, and Sofia flees the apartment.

####Incident####
A man is mistaken for a hoodlum and beaten up, leading him to a sordid web of violence and danger.

####Inconceivable####
While holding a crying baby, a woman fights with and kills a man. Four years later, Angela (Gina Gershon) and Brian (Nicolas Cage), both doctors, have a four-year-old daughter named Cora. Angela's friend Linda (Natalie Eva Marie) introduces Angela to Katie (Nicky Whelan), who has a four-year-old daughter, Maddie. Katie says she left an abusive husband but does not elaborate. Brian's mother, Donna, (Faye Dunaway) dislikes Katie from the start and questions her background.

Devastated after a miscarriage, Angela invites Katie to move into the guest house and be a part-time nanny while she recovers. One night, knowing Brian is watching, Katie steps naked into the pool. Brian becomes uncomfortable and leaves. When Angela returns to work at the hospital, Katie watches Cora.

Katie snoops through Angela and Brian's belongings. Angela comes home after work one day and catches Katie having sex in the guest house with whom she thinks is Brian, but is actually a woman. After the initial embarrassment, Angela relaxes somewhat and trusts Katie more, not believing she would ever have any interest in Brian. Linda excitedly tells Katie that Angela is going to ask Linda to be their surrogate, but Katie can barely hide how much it upsets her.

Angela has one embryo left from the same donor that Cora was conceived from, and she wants to use that so the two can be full siblings. Katie confides to Linda that she is the donor, and that her daughter Maddie was also hers but born from a mother in Maine. Katie abducted Maddie as a baby because "the mother didn't take care of her" and now she worries that Cora is not getting enough attention either and wants to take her. She clubs Linda over the head and drowns her in a lake. A couple later finds her body.

Months later, Angela and Brian tell Katie they are getting a full-time nanny, and Katie accuses them of wanting a complete stranger to raise their child. Angela suspects Katie is planning to keep the baby and disappear, and accuses her of killing Linda because she wanted it for herself. Katie fakes early labor pains. Brian is furious with Angela and is told by Katie that she is taking illegal prescription meds and losing her mind.

The next morning, while Brian is at work, Angela sneaks into the guest house and discovers Katie's secrets, confirming that she was a previous donor; she then gets a DNA test for the girls. While dropping off the DNA samples, Angela becomes very light headed and woozy, and tries to rush home, but then passes out while driving. Once she wakes, she realizes that Katie has drugged her and rushes home, where she confronts Katie, who admits everything to Angela and stabs herself in the stomach, then screams for Brian while stabbing Angela. Katie says she is going to tell everyone that Angela tried to kill her and Angela tells Katie that the truth will come out.

Katie is taken to the ER and an emergency C-section takes place. A healthy baby boy named Gabriel is born. The DNA test comes back and shows that Maddie and Cora were related to each other and to Katie, meaning Angela had told the truth. Katie is arrested then shown in a padded cell whilst the happy family of Brian, Angela, Maddie, Cora and Gabriel are shown all resting together.

####Infernal Machine####
A bomb planted on board a ship may go off at any moment, leaving the crew and passengers in suspense.

####Inhale####
Paul Stanton (Mulroney) and his wife Diane (Diane Kruger) are a couple whose daughter is dying from a rare degenerative lung condition. The only thing that can save her life is a lung transplant from an organ donor. The movie starts when the donated lung fails to arrive correctly. The movie goes back and forth between the present and the events leading up to it. In the present day, Paul goes to Juarez, Mexico to find a man called Dr. Navarro. After leaving his cell number at many local hospitals, somebody finally contacts Paul.
In the past, Dr. Rubin (Rosanna Arquette), who's treating their daughter (Mia Stallard), had given them information regarding Paul's associate, Harrison (Shepard), who somehow managed to get an organ transplant for himself, possibly from the black market. Paul confronted Harrison and finally managed to get Dr. Navarro's name from him. Harrison told him that he was contacted by Navarro and he didn't know how to reach him.

Back in the present day, Paul is ambushed by a couple of Navarro's guys that tell him to stay away. After an arduous search, Paul finally finds out that Dr. Navarro is actually Dr. Martinez (Vincent Perez) from a local hospital that he visited previously for his wounds. Paul confronts Martinez and asks him to find a lung donor for his daughter, who only has one week to live. Martinez agrees to help him for a $250,000 cash payment.

The next day, Martinez tells Paul that he has found a matching donor for his daughter. Paul tells Diane to go to Juarez and prepare their daughter for the transplant operation. Little does Paul know that the donor is actually a live person; Martinez and his men have planned a hit-and-run accident to get the lung implant from a local street boy. Paul discovers this fact and tells Diane about it. Diane tells him that she does not want to know where the donor comes from. Paul confronts Martinez at the operating table. Martinez tells Paul to make a choice: to go ahead with the operation or disband the operation knowing that they won't be able to find another match in time to save his daughter's life. The next scene shows Paul and Diane at their daughter's funeral. Diane gives Paul an accusing look blaming him for their daughter's death. Meanwhile, elsewhere, the local boy that was supposed to be the organ donor is alive and playing soccer with his friends.

####Inheritance####
In 2008, Archer Monroe, the patriarch of a wealthy and powerful political family in New York City, dies. His estate is divided among his family: Catherine, his wife; William, his younger son, a politician running for re-election; and Lauren, his elder daughter, the Manhattan district attorney. Family attorney Harold Thewlis privately shows Lauren her father's posthumous video message he left her. In the video, he says he has a secret to tell her that she must take to her grave. He directs her to a secret underground bunker on the family's property. There she finds a  captive man who identifies himself as Morgan Warner, who says he has been held prisoner for 30 years.

Morgan claims he was Archer's friend and business partner until one night, while driving drunk, they killed a pedestrian. At Archer's insistence, they covered up the crime before Archer took Morgan prisoner to prevent his exposing the homicide. In the intervening years, Archer treated Morgan like a confessor and admitted many secrets. As proof, Morgan directs Lauren to where the pedestrian's body is buried. Lauren also follows Morgan's clues and finds Archer's longtime mistress, with whom he had a son, as well as evidence that Archer paid bribes to aid his children being elected to public office. Lauren is eventually convinced to free Morgan, and, believing he was wronged, directs Harold to set up an offshore bank account and charter a private jet so Morgan can disappear.

While Morgan was asleep, Lauren took a sample of his fingerprints and sent them for identification. The fingerprints are matched and the file sent to the Monroe house. Catherine sees the file and is terrified by photos of Morgan, whom she identifies as "Carson", claiming he is an "evil man". Lauren discovers Morgan's flight never left and Harold has been murdered. By the time Lauren returns to the Monroe house, Morgan has abducted Catherine and taken her to the bunker. Carson subdues Lauren and reveals that thirty years ago, he drugged and raped Catherine. Archer was taking Carson somewhere to kill him when they hit the pedestrian; furthermore, Carson was responsible for Archer's death, using the poison Archer had intended to use on him. Lauren fights back and, during their struggle, Carson claims he is Lauren's biological father before Catherine seizes his gun and shoots him dead. Together, Lauren and Catherine pour gasoline throughout the bunker and set it afire, destroying all evidence of Carson's captivity.

####The Insider####
During a prologue, a CBS producer, Lowell Bergman, convinces the founder of Hezbollah, Sheikh Fadlallah, to grant an interview to Mike Wallace for "60 Minutes". While preparing for the interview, both Wallace and Bergman firmly stand their ground against the Sheikh's armed and hostile bodyguards' attempted intimidation and disruption.

Later, Bergman approaches Jeffrey Wigand—a former executive at the Brown & Williamson tobacco company—for help explaining technical documents. Wigand agrees, but intrigues Bergman when he adds that he won’t discuss anything else, citing a confidentiality agreement. B&W later coerce Wigand into a more restrictive agreement, leading Wigand to accuse Bergman of having betrayed him. Bergman subsequently visits Wigand to defend himself and investigate the potential story. Wigand, though apparently possessing very damaging information, is hesitant to jeopardize his severance package with B&W by revealing anything.

Wigand's family move into a more modest house, and Wigand begins working as a teacher. One night Wigand finds evidence of trespass, and receives a sinister phone call. Meanwhile, Bergman contacts Richard Scruggs, an attorney representing Mississippi in a lawsuit against the tobacco industry, suggesting that if they deposed Wigand, it could negate his confidentiality agreement and give CBS cover to broadcast the information; Scruggs expresses interest. Some time later, Wigand receives an emailed death threat and finds a bullet in his mailbox. He contacts the FBI, but the agents who visit him are hostile and confiscate his computer. A furious Wigand demands that Bergman arrange an interview, in which Wigand states that he was fired after he objected to B&W intentionally making their cigarettes more addictive.

Bergman later arranges a security detail for Wigand's home, and the Wigands suffer marital stress. Wigand testifies in Mississippi, over the objections of B&W attorneys, despite having been served with a gag order. On returning home, he discovers that his wife Liane has left him and taken their daughters. Eric Kluster, the president of CBS News, decides not to broadcast Wigand's interview, after CBS legal counsel Helen Caperelli warns that the network is at risk of legal action from B&W. Bergman confronts Kluster, believing that he is protecting the impending sale of CBS to Westinghouse, which would enrich both Kluster and Caperelli. Wallace, and their executive producer Don Hewitt, both side with Kluster. Wigand, learning of this, is appalled, and terminates contact with Bergman.

Investigators probe Wigand's personal history and publish their findings in a 500-page dossier. Bergman learns that "The Wall Street Journal" intends to use it in a piece questioning Wigand's credibility. He convinces the editor of the "Journal" to delay while Jack Palladino, an attorney and investigator, evaluates it. After infighting at CBS over the Wigand segment, Bergman is ordered to take a "vacation", as the abridged "60 Minutes" segment airs. Bergman contacts Wigand, who is both dejected and furious, accusing Bergman of manipulating him. Bergman defends himself and praises Wigand and his testimony. Scruggs urges Bergman to air the full segment to draw public support for their lawsuit, itself under threat by a lawsuit from Mississippi's governor. Bergman is unable to assist, and privately questions his own motives in pursuing the story.

Bergman contacts an editor at "The New York Times", disclosing the full story and events at CBS. The "Times" prints the story on the front page, and condemns CBS in a scathing editorial. The "Journal" dismisses the dossier as character assassination and prints Wigand's deposition. Hewitt accuses Bergman of betraying CBS, but finds that Wallace now agrees that bowing to corporate pressure was a mistake. "60 Minutes" finally airs the original segment, including the full interview with Wigand. Bergman tells Wallace that he has resigned, believing "60 Minutes"<nowiki/>'s credibility and integrity is now permanently tarnished.

####Intensity####
Chyna Shepherd accompanies her friend Laura Templeton to her family's house in rural Washington for Thanksgiving dinner. A serial killer named Edgler Vess invades the house and kills Laura and her family, as Chyna hides in the killer's RV. When Vess stops at a gas station, Chyna escapes and asks the two attendants to call the police. Before she has time to explain, Vess returns and torments the two workers before brutally killing them with a shotgun.  Chyna then learns that he is holding a 14-year-old girl named Ariel hostage in his basement. She becomes determined to save Ariel and uses one of the shopkeepers' cars to follows Vess back to his home. On the road she runs into a woman named Miriam and asks her to call the police. Miriam believes Chyna is disturbed and moves on.

Miriam stops at the gas station and finds the shopkeepers' bodies, leading her to believe Chyna's story. She makes a hysterical phone call to the police, telling them that they "need to save Chyna and Ariel," which the police interpret as the ramblings of a lunatic. Upon trying to fall back to sleep, the policeman, Ethan Trevaine, remembers the name Ariel from a missing person's case and begins investigating. Meanwhile, Chyna's car runs out of gasoline, so she abandons it in the middle of the road, forcing Vess to stop. As Vess pushes the car down an embankment, Chyna enters his RV and hides, unknowingly leaving foot prints. Vess suspects another person has entered the RV, but feigns obliviousness. He then kills Miriam when she tries to run him off the road and save Chyna. When they arrive at his home, Chyna attempts to free Ariel from a fortified room but is attacked and subdued by Vess.

As a captive, Chyna speaks with Vess and has flashbacks to her traumatic childhood: as a little girl, she witnessed her disturbed, abusive mother and her boyfriend kill her neighbors. In turn, Vess reveals his obsession with the "intensity" of any particular experience and declares his intention to kill both her and Ariel, but offers Chyna a slightly more merciful death if she agrees to aid him in mentally torturing Ariel out of her catatonia. The two have further existential conversations regarding God and the nature of good and evil.

When Vess is late returning to work after the Thanksgiving holiday, he lies and tells his boss he had to make a last-minute trip to Portland and got home later than expected. He departs, leaving Chyna chained to the dining room table. She watches in horror as one of Vess's other captives escapes from a drain hatch in his backyard, only to be mauled to death by Vess's bloodthirsty German Shepherds. Chyna manages to free herself and seizes the opportunity to escape with Ariel. After dressing in Vess's dog-training gear and spraying ammonia in the eyes of his dogs, Chyna attempts to flee with Ariel in Vess's mobile home, but unwittingly triggers an alarm that causes him to return home early.

Before they can make their escape, an unmarked vehicle and a police car arrive.  Although Chyna believes Vess to be in the unmarked vehicle driven by Trevaine, it is revealed that Vess is actually a Sheriff who emerges from the police car and opens fire on Trevaine, killing him before turning his attention to the mobile home. Chyna and Ariel manage to escape back to Vess's house, where Chyna ultimately gets the better of Vess. She sets him on fire, confines him in Ariel's old room, and watches as he burns to death.

In the aftermath, Chyna visits Ariel in a psychiatric hospital but is denied custody of her in a hearing; she is told that the young girl will require extensive therapy to recover from her trauma. As Chyna prepares to leave without her, Ariel, speaking for the first time, suddenly calls out to her the name "Badger", a character from a story Chyna had told her about to help bring her courage while escaping from Vess.  The two embrace, and it is implied that Chyna's custody of Ariel was granted.

####Intersect####
Ryan Winrich (Jason Spisak) is part of a team of young physicists at the Miskatonic University. The group conducts advanced research into creating the ability for humans to send physical objects through time. After initial success, their teammate Nate decides in a drunken stupor to test the system on himself. Transporting himself through the time portal, killing himself in the process. Gradually, Ryan starts realizing that the current events may somehow be related to the mysterious happenings in his childhood when he saw strange creatures whom nobody else could. Later, it turns out that the scientists were carefully manipulated by invisible and sinister forces from other dimensions.

####Jacob's Ladder####
On October 6, 1971, American infantryman Jacob Singer is with the 1st Air Cavalry Division, deployed in a village in Vietnam's Mekong Delta, when his close-knit unit comes under sudden attack. As many of Jacob's comrades are killed or wounded, others exhibit abnormal behavior with some suffering catatonia, convulsions, and seizures. Jacob flees into the jungle, only to be stabbed with a bayonet by an unseen assailant.

Jacob awakens in the New York City Subway, where, after glimpsing what he believes to be a tentacle protruding from a sleeping homeless person, an inexplicably locked subway station exit results in him almost being hit by a train. The year is 1975, he works as a postal clerk, and lives in a rundown apartment in Brooklyn with his girlfriend, Jezebel. Jacob misses his old family and experiences visions of them, especially the youngest of his sons, Gabe, who had died in an accident before the war. Jacob is increasingly beset by disturbing experiences and apparitions, including glimpses of faceless vibrating figures, and narrowly escapes being run over by a pursuing car. He attempts to contact his regular doctor at the local VA hospital, but after being told that there is no record of him ever being a patient there, Jacob is told that his doctor has died in a car explosion.

At a party thrown by friends, a psychic reads Jacob's palm and tells him that he is already dead, which Jacob dismisses as a joke. After declining to dance with her, he appears to witness an enormous creature penetrating Jezzie before he collapses. At home, Jacob experiences a dangerous fever, which Jezzie attempts to bring down with a painful ice bath. Jacob briefly wakes up in another reality where he lives with his wife and sons, including a still-alive Gabe. First-person perspective scenes of apparent flashbacks to his time in Vietnam show Jacob, badly wounded, being discovered by American soldiers before being evacuated under fire in a helicopter.

One of Jacob's former platoon mates, Paul, contacts him to reveal he is suffering from similar experiences, but is soon afterwards killed when his car explodes. Commiserating after the funeral, other surviving members of the platoon confess that they have all been experiencing horrifying hallucinations. Believing that they are suffering the effects of a military experiment performed on them without their knowledge or consent, they hire a lawyer to investigate. However, the lawyer quits the case after reading military files documenting that the soldiers were never in combat and were discharged for psychological reasons. Jacob's comrades soon back down while Jacob suspects they have been threatened into doing so. He is abducted by suited men who try to intimidate him. Jacob fights them and escapes but is injured and nearly paralyzed in the process. He is taken to a nightmarish hospital, where he is told he has been killed and this is home, but his chiropractor friend Louis comes to his rescue and heals him. Louis quotes the 14th-century Christian mystic Meister Eckhart:

<blockquote>Eckhart saw Hell too. He said: "The only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of life, your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away. But they're not punishing you", he said. "They're freeing your soul. So, if you're frightened of dying and ... you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth."</blockquote>

Jacob is approached by a distressed man who had been following him from a distance and who also dragged him away from Paul's burning car. Introducing himself as Michael Newman, he tells a story of having been a chemist with the Army's chemical warfare division where he designed a drug he called the Ladder, which massively increased aggression. Michael claims that, to test the drug's effectiveness, a dose was secretly given to Jacob's unit before the battle, causing some of them to turn on each other in a homicidal frenzy. Michael's story triggers a vision of Jacob's wounding in Vietnam, which shows his attacker as a fellow American soldier. Jacob returns to his family's home, where he finds Gabe, who takes him by the hand and leads him up the staircase into a bright light. The scene turns to a triage tent in 1971 as military doctors declare Jacob dead. The doctor takes one of his dog tags off his body and notes that Jacob had put up a tremendous fight to stay alive, but looked peaceful in death.

####Jennifer####
Down on her luck, Agnes Langley (Ida Lupino) is hired by Lorna Gale (Mary Shipp) to replace the "missing" Jennifer as caretaker for the Gale family's currently unoccupied Southern California estate. Agnes is immediately affected by the mysterious house and, after she finds a diary apparently belonging to Jennifer, becomes obsessed with determining the cause of the woman's "disappearance".

####Jinn####
In 1901, a man enters a shack in the forest to confront a jinn sitting, waiting for him, and he starts to recite an Arabic prayer to establish a layer of protection for himself as he nears. The man has only one request, the release of a girl being kept hostage by the Jinn, but the jinn refuses to answer and attacks him. After a struggle, the man throws holy water on the jinn. The jinn swears vengeance and states that he will slaughter all of his blood-line  from one generation to another.

113 years later, Shawn and Jasmine are a happy couple living in Michigan. Shawn gets a delivery, an early birthday present of a note and VHS tape. Later, he tells his wife about the promotion at his job, and that he thinks they're ready to have their first child, but Jasmine tells him that it's impossible for her to have children, upsetting Shawn. He leaves to think, and in his office he watches the VHS tape. The tape was recorded by his father, with the message that strange things might start happening to him, and he must seek out the helpers who will get him ready to fight the unknown forces. His Father also states that if this tape has managed to reach him, that means he has failed to defeat these forces and protect his family, and that Shawn will now need to prevail in this battle to ensure survival of his family.

When he gets home, he finds the furniture stacked up and his wife missing. He calls the police but Jasmine arrives, to his relief. When more odd things begin happening at home, the couple meets Father Westhoff and Gabriel, who explain the concept of jinn to them. Shawn doesn't believe this, but is prompted by Father Westhoff to visit his adoptive parents. He does so and is surprised to have Father Westhoff's story corroborated. They are then attacked by an unseen force that takes Jasmine. Shawn sets off with Gabriel to gather information from Ali, Shawn's estranged uncle. As Ali is of the same bloodline, the Jinns have tormented him, and his failure to defeat the Jinns has driven him mad. Ali, through his supernatural power, shows Shawn that his wife is pregnant. Ali warn Shawn that to save himself and his family, he will have to pass the Chilla (Physical, Mental & Spiritual test) and defeat the Jinns. Ali senses that the jinn has been spying on them and is there to attack him. As they flee, Gabriel sacrifices himself for Shawn. It is revealed that Gabriel is a jinn, though he dies in the fight with the other jinn.

Now relying solely on Father Westhoff for help, Shawn finds out the reason the jinn are after him, and Father Westhoff sends him on a quest to learn how to defeat the jinn. Shawn manages to draw the jinn to a scheduled place for their final battle. The Jinns try several physical tortures and mental deceptions, but Shawn manages to survive the Chilla, and he must next confront the main jinn from his great-grandfather's clash over 100 years ago. Ali fights alongside him, but it appears the jinn is only toying with them. Eventually, though, Shawn finally defeats the jinn. Jinns from different dimensions come and ask Shawn for peace but Shawn wants them to leave him alone. He kills one of them as a warning to the others. Father Westhoff shows him that Jasmine is safe in the church, along with the now revived Gabriel.

A year later, Shawn, Jasmine, and Ali are at the apartment with the couple's new baby boy. The baby drops his pacifier, and as Ali and Shawn both bend down to pick it up, it moves to the baby's mouth without being touched. They look at each other, knowing that the child has the power to defeat the jinn once and for all.

####Jones and His New Neighbors####
The following summary of the comedy is published in the April 3, 1909 issue of the New York trade publication "The Film Index":blockquote|The Joneses have moved and taken an apartment in one of a row of houses which are identically alike. The most natural thing happens; Jones gets into the wrong house, and, of course, his intrusion is vigorously resented, and it looked for a time he would suffer bodily injury, but as usual the menacing clouds dissipate and peace again reigns in the Jones domicile. Eddie may get some hard bumps, but they never scar.

Additional details about the film's storyline are provided in another much later summary published in Kemp P. Niver's extensive 1985 reference "Early Motion Pictures: The Paper Print Collection in the Library of Congress":blockquote|All of the incidents in this humorous one-reel picture are related to the preoccupation of neighbors who live on a street where the front doors are all identical. A husband comes home, his wife embraces him and leaves the room. When she returns she finds a strange man reading the newspaper and generally making himself at home. She is disturbed. The unwelcome intruder flees in terror, accidentally taking his host's hat and overcoat. The film shows three such incidents. The final scenes show all the neighbors, brandishing kitchenware and pounding on the door of the man who caused all the trouble by wandering into the wrong apartment. A policeman arrives and straightens everything out, ending the film.

####Joy Ride####
While traveling from California to Colorado to pick up his childhood friend and crush Venna, Lewis is forced to stop in Salt Lake City after he learns his estranged brother Fuller has been arrested. Lewis bails him out and Fuller tags along for the ride.

Fuller has a CB radio installed in Lewis' car and the two begin listening in on truckers' chatter. Fuller coaxes Lewis into playing a prank on a truck driver nicknamed Rusty Nail, asking him to pretend to be a woman named Candy Cane. They set up a meeting with Rusty Nail in a motel where Lewis and Fuller are spending the night; they tell Rusty Nail that Candy Cane will be in room 17, the room of an irritable and racist businessman with whom Fuller had an unpleasant encounter at the check in desk. When Rusty Nail arrives, the brothers listen from the adjoining room; an argument and sounds of a scuffle are briefly heard.

The next morning, Lewis and Fuller learn that the police found the businessman on the highway, with his lower jaw ripped off. Lewis admits they were involved and Sheriff Ritter accosts them for their role in the incident, but lets them go. Back on the road, Rusty Nail is heard again on the radio looking for Candy Cane. Lewis reveals the prank to Rusty Nail and he demands an apology, but Fuller insults him instead. Rusty Nail then notes they should get their taillight fixed, indicating he is following them.

They drive to a nearby gas station and unsuccessfully attempt to contact Sheriff Ritter. Seeing a large truck pull into the gas station, they flee from the scene into a dead end, with the truck driver chasing them. The driver turns out to be a kind stranger trying to return Lewis's credit card, which he left behind in panic. The real Rusty Nail then shows up in his truck and, as he slowly crushes Lewis's car against a tree, Fuller hysterically apologizes. Rusty Nail drives away, declaring his actions to be simply a retaliatory joke.

Believing themselves safe, the brothers arrive in Colorado and pick up Venna. They stop at a motel and, as Lewis falls asleep, Rusty Nail calls his room, revealing he has noticed Venna has joined them. They flee from the motel, but see messages from Rusty Nail spray painted on road signs, instructing them to look in the trunk; they find the CB radio Fuller had previously thrown from the window of the car. Rusty Nail then contacts them again via the radio, announcing that he has kidnapped Venna's friend Charlotte, and he directs them to a cornfield where the three get split up. Rusty Nail kidnaps Venna.

Rusty Nail sets up a meeting at another motel in room 17, mirroring the false date with which he was pranked. He sets up a trap that will kill Venna if the room door is opened. Fuller attempts to get in the room by a back window, but is injured by Rusty Nail and gets stuck outside. Lewis attempts to free Fuller as the police arrive to help Venna. Meanwhile, Rusty Nail's truck appears uphill and begins rolling down towards the motel. The brothers free Venna in time and everyone escapes as the truck crashes into the motel. As the police investigate Rusty Nail's truck, they see a dead body in the driver's seat and Charlotte, still alive, in the back.

While Lewis, Fuller and Venna are treated for their injuries on scene, the dead man inside the truck turns out to be the friendly truck driver who returned Lewis's credit card. From the CB in the ambulance, the group hears Rusty Nail's voice, learning that he is alive and free.

####Julie####
A former stewardess, widow Julie Benton (Doris Day), flying for "Amalgamated Airlines" is terrorized by her insanely jealous second husband, concert pianist Lyle (Louis Jourdan). It becomes a life-or-death matter after friend Cliff Henderson (Barry Sullivan) relays his suspicions to Julie that her first husband's death may not have been a suicide.

She pretends that she would have fallen for Lyle even if her first husband had still been alive, and Lyle confesses the murder to her. Julie flees with Cliff's help, but police are unable to arrest Lyle without proof.

Julie and Cliff hire a car and drive north to San Francisco where Julie changes her identity, and returns to her former job with the airline. Lyle has a confrontation with Cliff, Lyle shoots him and learns where Julie can be found.

With police in pursuit, Julie is warned that Lyle may be on her flight. She spots him, but Lyle pulls a gun on her, then kills the pilot before being shot himself. Julie is "talked down" receiving instructions on how to fly the aircraft. She does so successfully, and her nightmare comes to an end.

####The Juror####
Annie Laird is a sculptor who lives in New York with her son Oliver; she works a day job as a data entry clerk. Annie is selected to be a juror in the trial of mafia boss Louie Boffano, who is accused of ordering the murder of Salvatore Riggio.

Mark Cordell buys some of Annie's artwork and then wines and dines her before she discovers he is better known as "The Teacher", Boffano's enforcer and the actual perpetrator of Riggio's murder. Mark tells Annie to persuade the jury to acquit Boffano, or she and Oliver will die.

A frightened Annie convinces the jury to acquit Boffano. After the trial, Boffano questions whether Annie should "disappear", seeing her as a loose end. Mark convinces Boffano otherwise. Mark goes after Annie's friend Juliet. After having sex with her, Mark reveals himself to be Annie's stalker. He pulls a gun and forces Juliet to take a fatal drug overdose. Mark boasts of Juliet's murder to Eddie, who also works for Boffano but unlike Mark, is sympathetic to Annie as he is a parent himself.

To ensure her son's safety, Annie hides Oliver in the village of T'ui Cuch, Guatemala. The prosecutor, who figured out Annie was threatened, wants Annie to turn state's witness so they can go after Mark, who now plans to take over Boffano's empire.

Annie convinces the prosecutor to let her wear a wire in a scheduled meeting with Mark. Annie removes the wire and gives it to Eddie, insinuating she and Mark are now a couple. Annie then succeeds in getting Mark to incriminate himself in a boastful rant about his ambitions, which she tapes on a hidden tape recorder. She uses the tape to tip off Boffano, who schedules a meeting with Mark.

Boffano's plan backfires when Mark kills both Boffano and his son Joseph, along with their henchmen. He also slashes Eddie's throat. Mark, furious at Annie's betrayal, calls her, revealing his intention to travel to Guatemala to kill Oliver.

Annie travels to Guatemala where there is a showdown with Mark. He chases Oliver into a structure, where locals shoot Mark. Annie, also armed with a pistol, fires six more shots, making sure Mark is dead after he tries to shoot Annie with a gun pulled from his ankle holster. Oliver is unharmed.

####The Keeper####
Deep within the soundproofed confines of his secluded country home, an upstanding police officer harbors a dark secret in director Paul Lynch's tense tale of unjust imprisonment and unhinged madness. On the surface, Lieutenant Krebs is a respected law enforcement officer with close ties to his community. A glance into Krebs' crippled psyche, however, reveals another, much more malevolent persona. Drifting exotic dancer named Gina has been brutally attacked in a near-fatal assault. Offered a ride to the local bus station by the outwardly amiable Lieutenant Krebs after issuing a statement to the local police force, Gina awakens to discover that she is being held captive in an escape-proof basement jail cell with all the discomforts of the county detention center. In the days and weeks that follow, world weary dancer Gina will be forced to wage mental warfare against her increasingly unstable captor if she ever hopes to escape the oppressive lockdown of his basement dungeon and live to tell the tale.

####Key Witness####
A man runs away to avoid suspicion of murder and ends up in more trouble.

####Kill Kill Faster Faster####
Joe One-Way (Gil Bellows) is serving a life sentence for the passion murder of his teenage bride Kimba (Moneca Delain).  At the urging of his cellmate Clinique (Shaun Parkes), he composes the play "White Man: Black Hole" about his crime.  Joe had been incarcerated 18 years, before Hollywood agent Markie Mark (Esai Morales), who wishes to make a film of the play, arranges that Joe gets an early release from prison. Wanting to create a great deal of media buzz, he brings Joe into his office to rewrite the stage play in order to give it greater audience appeal.  There, Joe meets Fleur (Lisa Ray), Markie's arm candy.  Learning she had been a fan of his for some time, the two begin a torrid affair.  Joe then searches for a way to reconcile the crime for which he had never forgiven himself.

####Killer by Nature####
Horrific murders which once lived only in a young man's nightmares suddenly begin occurring in chilling reality in his hometown.

####The Killer Inside Me####
In 1952, Deputy Sheriff Lou Ford is a pillar of his small west Texas community; secretly, he is a sociopath with violent sexual tastes. As a teenager, Lou was caught raping a five-year-old girl by his adopted brother Mike, who pleaded guilty to the crime to protect Lou. Released from prison, Mike was hired by Chester Conway, and died in a construction “accident” Lou believes was staged by Conway.

At the request of Sheriff Bob Maples, Lou visits Joyce Lakeland, a prostitute who is having an affair with Conway's son, Elmer. When she continuously provokes him with slaps, Lou violently beats Joyce, who enjoys pain, and they begin their own affair. They devise a plot to extort $10,000 from Conway. Maples and Conway ask Lou to oversee the payoff, but Lou enacts his own plan: he brutally beats Joyce and, believing her dead, shoots and kills Elmer, planting the gun on Joyce. However, Joyce survives, and Conway intends to see her executed for Elmer's murder.

Lou's reputation begins to falter: his fiancée Amy suspects his infidelity, and county district attorney Howard Hendricks suspects Lou is the real killer. Lou accompanies Maples and Conway in taking Joyce to the hospital in Fort Worth so Conway can interrogate her. Lou waits in a hotel room during her surgery, and Maples tells him Joyce died on the operating table.

Returning home, Lou discovers explicit photographs inside a Bible. The woman in the photographs was Helene, a housekeeper and babysitter from his youth who resembles Joyce. Lou recalls that Helene introduced him to sadomasochism, and burns the photos.

Hendricks arrests Johnnie Pappas, a local youth Lou had befriended, as a suspect in the murders. He is found with one of Conway's marked $20 bills, given to him by Lou. Hendricks asks Lou to persuade Johnnie to confess; in Johnnie's cell, Lou confesses to Johnnie that he is the killer, and hangs Johnnie to make it appear as though he committed suicide out of guilt.

Johnnie's death only makes the town more suspicious of Lou. Journalist and union organizer Joe Rothman, who had previously suggested that Conway had Mike killed, implies that he knows Lou is the killer. Lou proposes to Amy, and to sate his violent predilections, she allows him to spank her. An alcoholic bum, whom Lou had previously burnt with a cigar, has been trailing Lou and knows he is responsible for the murders. He demands $5,000 to keep quiet, to which Lou agrees. On the day Lou and Amy had planned to elope, Lou beats her to death; the bum sees her body and runs for help. Lou gives chase, shouting that the bum has murdered Amy, and another deputy, Jeff Plummer, shoots the bum dead.

The next morning, Plummer informs Lou that Sheriff Maples has committed suicide. Hendricks and Plummer try to get a confession from Lou, but he cockily refuses. They find a letter Amy intended to give Lou in which she begs him to come clean. Lou is arrested and sent to an insane asylum, where he suffers hallucinations of Amy and Helene. Attorney Billy Boy Walker, hired by Rothman, has Lou released. Lou tells Walker everything and concludes that he doesn't want anyone else to die.

Lost in violent fantasies, Lou douses his home in gasoline and alcohol, arms himself with a knife, and sits in his study to await retribution. The police arrive with Hendricks, Conway, Plummer and the still-alive Joyce. She tells Lou that she refused to cooperate with the authorities, Lou tells her he loves her, then stabs her in the stomach. Plummer opens fire, hitting both Joyce and Lou and igniting the gasoline. Outside, the approaching policemen watch the house engulfed in a fireball that Lou has ignited to kill himself.

####The Killing Floor####
David Lamont, a book publisher who is known to be ruthless toward friends, foes, and clients alike, moves into his new penthouse apartment. There he meets his mysterious and beautiful neighbor, Audrey Lavine, who lives on the third floor. Shortly thereafter, he receives a visit from an investigator and a man who claims that the penthouse belongs to his father who never sold it.

David tells them the apartment is his, everything is in legal order, and if they have a problem to talk with his lawyer. Soon after he starts receiving packages with the crime scene photos that apparently were taken in his penthouse.  Later he begins to receive video tapes documenting his every move and believes someone is after him. With his assistant, Rebecca Fay, David begins to discover who or what is behind everything that is occurring.

####Kimi####
Bradley Hasling, CEO of a tech corporation called Amygdala, gives an interview about the company's newest product, Kimi. Kimi is a smart speaker which controversially makes use of human monitoring to improve the device's search algorithm. Amygdala plans to soon hold an initial public offering, which stands to earn Hasling a fortune.

Angela Childs is an employee of Amygdala in Seattle who works from home monitoring incoming data streams from Kimi devices and making corrections to the software. She suffers from anxiety and agoraphobia due to a previous assault, which has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Her primary human contact is with her romantic partner Terry, her neighbor from across the street whom she meets for sex in her apartment. One day while working, Angela receives a recording that appears to capture a violent sexual assault by a man named Brad. With the help of her coworker Darius, she accesses the information of the account holder, a woman named Samantha. Angela uncovers more of Samantha's recording, including one that sounds like her murder. It is revealed that "Brad" is in fact Bradley Hasling himself and that Samantha was his mistress. Bradley had ordered the murder from a hitman named Rivas. Angela transfers the recordings to a flash drive.

She reports the incident to her superior, who refers her to Natalie Chowdhury, an executive at Amygdala. Angela attempts to reach Chowdhury over the phone multiple times, but is eventually convinced to come to her office in person, with the promise that the FBI will be informed about the case. At the office, Angela is disturbed when Chowdhury seems reluctant to contact the authorities and makes reference to Angela's prior mental health leave. While waiting for the FBI to be contacted, she receives word from Darius that someone has deleted Samantha's voice recordings from the Amygdala servers and shortly after sees two unknown men enter the office. She flees and travels on foot towards the nearby FBI field office, while being tracked by Rivas and his accomplices through her cell phone.

The men catch up with Angela and attempt to force her into a van, but a group of nearby protestors prevent her from being abducted. However, one of Rivas's men, a hacker named Yuri, is able to deduce where she is headed from her search history. Angela is drugged and taken back to her apartment by her kidnappers, who plan to stage a home invasion to cover up her murder. On their way inside, they are interrupted by Kevin, a neighbor who also spends all of his time inside and became concerned after seeing Angela leave the house. Kevin is stabbed, distracting the assailants, but Rivas is already waiting inside her apartment. He confiscates the flash drive and begins to delete the recordings from Angela's laptop, but she uses her Kimi device to again distract Rivas and his men, escaping to a higher floor. She cobbles together a weapon using a nail gun left by a construction project in the apartment above her, using it to kill the intruders. Terry, whom she had planned to meet up with, arrives just as she is calling 9-1-1.

An epilogue shows that Bradley Hasling has been arrested for Samantha's murder. Angela, sporting a new hairstyle, gets breakfast with Terry outside of her apartment.

####The Kirlian Witness####
Rilla's sister, Laurie, is dead, murdered on the moonlit rooftop above her apartment.  There are no clues and no fingerprints.  Yet there is a "witness".  If Rilla can communicate with it, she can expose a murderer, but that communication could cost her her marriage, her sanity and her life.

Laurie's childhood affinity for plant life had developed into a remarkable telepathic bond, one that she had been researching exhaustively.  When she is murdered, the only "witness" is her favourite houseplant.  Rilla insists that the plant holds the key to the killer's identity.  The police are openly skeptical of her theory.  So Rilla becomes a one-person private detective agency.

Through the use of Kirlian photography, - a type of X-Ray process that can reveal the psychological aura of its subject - she compiles persuasive evidence.  Still, her obsessive investigation is alienating her husband and upsetting her life.  Her own telepathic communication with the plant is triggering a series of terrifying dreams of her sister's death and what she cannot distinguish in the prophetic nightmares is the face of the murderer who is about to kill again.

####Kissing Darkness####
A group of college boys, bored with the every day "gay life" of LA, decide to skip Pride weekend in exchange for a camping trip in the woods. Quickly overcome with boredom in their new surroundings, the boys venture into a game that ultimately unleashes the vengeful spirit of a local legend known as Malice Valeria. Overcome by her deadly plan of tainted love and her thirst to take back what was lost long ago, the boys must now band together before they fall victim to the poisons of a broken heart.

####Knight Club####
A failed actor is promoted to head bouncer at one of Los Angeles' hottest nightclubs where he struggles to remain loyal to legendary bouncer Dick Gueron, the leader of the fearsome Knights. When a rival nightclub makes a tempting offer, the allure of success threatens to destroy everything he has worked for.

####Last Rites####
Father Michael is a New York priest with close ties to the Mafia crime syndicate — his father is a don.  The priest's brother-in-law Gino, a mafia boss, is murdered while having sex with Angela, a mistress. She narrowly escapes by hiding in a bathroom and locking the door.

Pursued by hitmen, the mistress comes to the priest for confession. She is afraid to go to the police so Father Mike agrees to meet her at her choice of location. A cab driver transports him to a loft apartment, telling him a sorrowful tale of how Angela has helped him and his wife with the grief over losing a young son. Father Mike confronts her about knowing his relationship to Gino. She denies knowing the connection. When the two encounter the hitmen, the priest is wounded and one of the hitmen recognizes Father Mike.

Angela hides in his church. She tells him it was Gino's wife who shot him. Gino is buried, and Father Mike glares across the casket at his sister Zena, having seen her with the hitmen when he was shot. He speaks to his father, who says he expects to lose at his racketeering trial and be sent to prison. The Don tells the priest that his sister wants to run the business, but he has said no since she's a woman. As they leave the cemetery, the hitman tells the Don and Zena that he recognized Michael.

Zena comes to confession and tells Father Mike that she knows of him helping the girl. The priest begins to fall in love with Angela. He meets best friend Nuzo, a detective and godson of his father. Nuzo tells him not to trust her. He tells Mike that Gino gave evidence to a rival crime syndicate, which sealed the Don's fate, in return for 5 million dollars. Nuzo tells him to sit tight while he makes an arrest, but Nuzo is gunned down, dying in Mike's arms.

Father Mike and Angela flee to Mexico, heading for her village. For the first time the priest violates his vows and they have sex. In the morning she is gone. Meanwhile, the Don finds out they are in Mexico and sends Zena to kill the girl. Father Mike races to catch up to Angela, thwarting another hitman along the way. He arrives in the village in time for a religious festival. Seeing no sign of Angela, Michael goes into the Cathedral. He prays sincerely and contemplates. There is an emphasis on the Virgin Mary, as there is throughout this film.

Angela is a fraud who set Gino up and took the money. She is also married to the "cabbie" she sent to pick him up. Now she instructs her husband to kill him. He stops at the festival and Michael spots him. He witnesses the cabbie drive away in the rental car Angela took. Seeing the statue of “The Virgin”, but his heart more or less committed to “sin”, Michael discards his priestly ring.

Michael then goes to the hotel and finds a surprised Angela. He lies that he loves her and they have sex again. She awakens to see Michael sitting in a chair, staring at her. He stands, walks to the door and leaves her, saying "vaya con Dios," which is Spanish for "go with God."

Angela is stunned to see Zena step through the door. Zena fatally shoots Angela as Michael continues down the steps past the body of the "cabbie." He gets into a limo and waits for Zena. She sits next to him and says "thank you, brother." He takes her hand and kisses it as they drive away.

The film ends, in the Cathedral, with a slow zoom onto “The Virgin”. As the shot reached its closest point, and as the film begins its ending fade to black, a barely perceptible tear is shown dripping from the statue's eye.

####The Lesser Evil####
Four old friends, Derek (Colm Feore), George (David Paymer), Ivan (Arliss Howard), and Frank (Tony Goldwyn), are reunited when they become suspects in a double murder that took place twenty years before, when they were teenagers. The four covered it up and have now become successful professionals with seemingly normal lives.

The story switches back and forth between the present day and the time of the killings. As the police investigation closes in on the four men, they turn on each other. It soon becomes clear that one of them will have to take the blame, or they will all be convicted.

####Let's Kill Uncle####
Following the death of multi-millionaire Russell Harrison in a car crash, his $5 million estate falls to his only child, 12-year-old Barnaby Harrison, who will receive the money when reaching his age of majority. In the meantime, Barnaby will live with his uncle, Major Kevin Harrison, who resides on a remote, sparsely populated island eight miles from the mainland. During World War II, Kevin was a James Bond type British Army Intelligence Commando and has published an account of his war exploits entitled "Killing the Enemy", detailing his multiple accounts of extreme close combat killing of various Germans.

Barnaby is escorted by Police Detective Sergeant Frank Travis on a cruise to the island. Aboard the boat is Chrissie, who is Barnaby's age. The two children constantly argue, with Chrissie believing Barnaby is telling fantastic lies about his uncle's exploits, though Frank does reveal himself as a policeman to her. Chrissie has come from a broken home and will be living with her Aunt Justine, who lives on Uncle Kevin's island.

Barnaby's bad behavior continues on the island, with Frank chastising him for playing with his detective revolver, Barnaby leading Christine astray by visiting a dangerous decrepit hotel and Barnaby keeping up a constant litany of tall tales to impress or frighten Chrissie. Barnaby, however, worships his heroic Uncle Kevin and enjoys reading his book. One night, Uncle Kevin, dressed in his wartime military beret and battledress (as he does on the cover of his book), visits a sleeping Barnaby and wakes him to go on an adventure with him. Leading Barnaby to high cliffs overlooking the crashing surf, Uncle Kevin hypnotizes Barnaby to walk in specific directions with the aim of having Barnaby fall off the cliff to his death, whilst Kevin is home in his bed. The next day, Justine sees Barnaby perilously close to the edge of a high cliff and shouts at him, waking him out of his trance.

A shaken Barnaby believes that he was walking in his sleep until Uncle Kevin later jovially explains that he intends to kill Barnaby for his inheritance. Though his first attempt at eliminating him in a manner appearing accidental failed, he vows to try again. Kevin also explains that his home is "Switzerland", an area of neutrality where he will not harm Barnaby, and adds that he will also not harm Barnaby when he is with Justine or Sgt. Travis, the latter of whom still remains on the island as Uncle Kevin's guest.

Based on Barnaby's previous lies and hysterical behavior, no one believes him, until Chrissie discovers the truth and gleefully suggests they kill Uncle Kevin first. The trio begin a series of cat and mouse assassination attempts against each other. When Uncle Kevin discovers that Chrissie stole Sgt Travis's revolver and came up with an unsuccessful assassination attempt, Kevin includes her in his game.

####A Life in the Balance####
Antonio Gomez is a nearly down-and-out musician and widower with an eleven year old  boy, Paco in Mexico City.
Trying to support his boy in the face of unemployment and neighbors who want custody of his son, Gomez argues with an ex-girlfriend over money she owes him. After he leaves, the girlfriend is murdered by the religious-fanatic serial killer terrorizing the city, who stabs his young female victims and leaves them with their arms folded.
When neighbors report the argument Gomez had with the murdered girl, the police presume they are finally on the trail of the serial killer, and Gomez is their target.
Gomez goes out to a pawnshop to buy his son a long-dreamed-of guitar and there meets a young woman with whom he goes looking for his son.
What Gomez does not realize is that a police dragnet is closing in on him and that his boy Paco actually witnessed this most recent murder and has been trailing the killer.
It's not long, though, before the killer has spotted the boy and kidnaps him. The boy is forced to accompany the killer over the course of a night while the killer is asking God who he should kill next while Paco watches and looks for a way to escape.
Hauled in by the police, Antonio and Maria learn what has happened to Paco, and with the help of the police, attempt to locate him and his kidnapper before the psychopath notches up another knife murder.

####Little Nikita####
Jeffrey Nicolas Grant (River Phoenix), a brash hyperactive high school student, lives in a San Diego suburb with his parents, who own a successful garden center. Keen to fly, he has applied for entry to the Air Force Academy.

During a routine background check on Jeff, FBI agent Roy Parmenter (Poitier) finds evidence they may be sleeper agents for the Soviet Union. Unable to arrest them as they have not done anything illegal, Roy continues his investigation, moves into the house across the street from the Grant family, and worms his way into their confidence.

He eventually confronts Jeff with his suspicions and seeks Jeff's cooperation to learn more about his parents. Initially unbelieving, Jeff is soon forced to accept the facts and discovers that even his name is fictitious and that his real name is Nikita.

Roy confides to Jeff that twenty years earlier, his partner was killed by a Soviet agent, known only as 'Scuba' (Richard Lynch), and that he is still at large. 'Scuba' is now a rogue agent, killing KGB agents one by one, including "sleepers". Meanwhile, a Soviet spy-catcher, Konstantin Karpov (Richard Bradford), has been sent from the Soviet embassy in Mexico City to 'reel in' Scuba.

Jeff is captured and held as a hostage at gunpoint by Karpov, as he and 'Scuba' make their way to the Mexican border on the San Diego Trolley. Roy has also confronted them and is holding Karpov at gunpoint. At the border, the situation resolves itself; Karpov and 'Scuba' cross into Mexico, and the Grant family remain in the United States.

####Locker 13####
Skip (Jason Spisak) works at an Old West theme park and is told several stories by his supervisor Archie (Jon Gries). Each story contains not only a strange locker with the number 13 on it, but also involves themes about making the right choices and the consequences of not doing so. The stories range from an aging boxer faced with a big choice to a young man desperate to take his own life.

####Lonely Hearts####
A lonely woman who becomes obsessed with a con man. She even poses as his sister to help him trick other women.

falls for the conman who steals her money after seducing her. Frank doesn't want Alma around him, but he cannot do anything about the situation in case she goes to the police. Hot on the trail of the two is a female private detective, working for another of Frank's victims.

####Looking Glass####
Ray and Maggie have lost their child to an accident. Longing for a fresh start, they purchase a motel from Ben in a small town located somewhere in the California desert on the way to Las Vegas.

Hours after their arrival, Ben calls Ray briefly, and disconnects his cellphone number soon after. Due to Ben’s weird behavior, Ray becomes suspicious and soon discovers a secret underground hallway, leading to a tiny room with a one-way mirror that allows to secretly observe motel room No. 10.

A young woman named Jessica soon moves into the motel. Ray and Maggie also make acquaintance with Tommy, a likable truck driver who regularly frequents motel room No. 10 in company of a prostitute, and Howard, a local deputy sheriff who comes by the motel every few days to have coffee.

Ray feels more and more uncomfortable due to Howard’s and the gas station staffs’ odd behavior. He notices that Howard keeps asking if he knew Ben’s whereabouts and that Jessica has nightly visits from another blonde woman (Strawberry Blonde). As Maggie moves Jessica to room No. 10, Ray spies on her and Strawberry Blonde through the one-way mirror and sees them have BDSM sex. Later that night, after Strawberry Blonde and Ray have left, Jessica is strangled to death by a masked assailant.

One night, Ray and Maggie go to a casino. As they come back, they find the slashed corpse of a pig in the motel’s swimming pool with a note stuffed into the stomach reading “Crissy”. Ray drives to the desert and burns the corpse. As he comes back, he meets Tommy and tells him about the pig. Tommy says a young local woman named Crissy had committed suicide in the pool by cutting her stomach open.

The next morning, Howard comes over. He appears to be suspicious of Ray for not calling the police about the pig corpse. He starts to interrogate him and reveals to him that Crissy was actually murdered on the night after Ray and Maggie had first visited the motel prior to them buying it and that her murderer has not yet been caught. He also reveals that he spoke to the gas station staff who have had an eye on Ray ever since that visit. After Howard repeatedly asks Ray if he murdered Crissy and Ray repeatedly nervously denies, Howard starts to laugh and appears to believe him. Ray and Maggie later see a news report about Jessica, who has been found murdered in the desert.

Soon, Strawberry Blonde moves back into the motel and insists on getting room No. 10. Ray propositions her, but she ignores it. Later that night, Ray watches her and another woman have BDSM sex, but also notices a man sitting around the corner in the bathroom.

Later Ray hears a noise and sees a man running away from the motel after having splashed red paint on the motel. Angrily Ray goes across the street and accuses the gas station manager of being involved, but the manager denies involvement.

When Strawberry Blonde leaves, he follows her car to a bar and interrogates her about Jessica’s death since she had been with her the night she died, but Strawberry Blonde does not answer his questions and a man attacks Ray, but Ray pulls a revolver and knocks him unconscious. He tells Strawberry Blonde to stay away from his motel.

When Ray returns to the motel, Maggie is furious and reveals that Howard had interrogated her about him. Strawberry Blonde had also advised her to keep an eye on Ray. They have a fight, but Ray manages to calm Maggie down. He shows the one-way mirror to Maggie and admits to having watched other people have sex.

Ray is convinced something happened in motel room 10. He decides the only way to find out is to speak to Ben. After calling many people and asking them to leave Ben a message, Ben finally calls and agrees to meet Ray in the desert. As they meet, Ben seems to be confused and suffering from paranoia. Ray tells Ben he knows about the one-way mirror and calls him a pervert, but Ben claims that he was only studying human sociology. Ben offers to return fifty percent of the purchase price to Ray and advises him to leave town immediately. Suddenly, a bullet strikes Ben in his chest and kills him. Ray sees a car speeding off in the distance.

Realizing he is in danger, Ray calls Maggie and asks her to pack up her things. Upon arriving at the motel, Ray notices Howard’s police car in the parking lot and finds signs of a struggle in his apartment. Looking through the one-way mirror, he sees Maggie gagged and restrained to the bed with Howard laying in wait for him. Howard tells Maggie he plans to kill her and Ray, making it look like Ray killed her and then committed suicide. Ray lures Howard to the mirror, then breaks through it and attacks him. Howard says he now understands how Ben knew what he did, revealing why he was so anxious to find him. They have a scuffle, but Ray manages to get hold of a pistol and kills Howard. He frees Maggie and they speed off by car.

####Lying in Wait####
Babee Gordon (Thomas Newton) is a quiet, introverted bachelor who one day discovers he has new next-door neighbors, Keith and Vera Miller (Rutger Hauer and Virginia Madsen).

####Man Afraid####
A minister (George Nader) accidentally kills a young burglar. The father of the burglar (Eduard Franz) sets out to revenge his son's death by threatening the minister's son.

####Man on a Swing####
Police detective Lee Tucker is investigating the murder of a woman. He has little evidence until factory worker Franklin Wills approaches him, identifying himself as a clairvoyant. Wills goes into trances during which he says that he can see the murder taking place. Tucker wonders whether Wills is truly clairvoyant or has an ulterior motive.

####The Manhattan Project####
Dr. John Mathewson discovers a new process for refining plutonium to purities greater than 99.997 percent. The United States government provides him a laboratory located in Ithaca, New York, masked as a medical company. John moves to Ithaca and meets real estate agent Elizabeth Stephens while searching for an apartment. He attempts to win the affections of the single mother by inviting her teenage son Paul to take a tour of the lab. John is confident in the lab's cover story but Paul, an unusually gifted student with a passion for science, becomes suspicious when he discovers a statistically impossible patch of five-leaf clover on the grounds.

Paul and his aspiring journalist girlfriend, Jenny Anderman, decide to expose the weapons factory to the media, stealing a container of plutonium as evidence. Once they succeed, Paul declares that the plutonium alone is insufficient, as no-one would be impressed by two kids stealing something from a lab. Instead, he convinces Jenny he can create the world's first privately-built nuclear device, exposing the lab to the world by audaciously entering it into the New York Science Fair. After convincing his mother and his school that his project is about hamsters bred in darkness, he begins research and construction of the bomb.

The lab discovers that a container of plutonium has been replaced by a bottle of shampoo mixed with glitter. A military investigation team, led by Lt. Colonel Conroy, arrives on the scene and determines that Paul is responsible for stealing the plutonium. Suspecting him of terrorist intent, the investigators search Paul's home and discover that he and Jenny have left for the science fair.

After the agents capture the couple in New York City, John, who feels personally responsible for the crisis, talks privately with Paul and persuades him to give the bomb to the agents before a group of other participants at the science fair help Paul and Jenny escape from the hotel.

In an effort to expose the lab, Paul hatches a plan to return the bomb on his own terms. Ensuring Jenny is a safe distance away, he calls the agents from a pay phone and walks into the lab with the bomb while being surrounded by snipers and agents. During the standoff, negotiations stall and Paul arms the bomb. John, convinced that Paul is not an actual terrorist, attempts to intercede on his behalf.

Due to radiation from the plutonium, the bomb's timer suddenly activates on its own and begins to count down with increasing speed. Paul suggests taking the bomb to a quarry outside of the town, but John admits that he had not fully understood the ramifications of his plutonium refining process. As a result, Paul's bomb will have a nuclear blast yield nearly five times bigger than the one that destroyed Hiroshima if it detonates.

Desperate to defuse the bomb, all sides put down their weapons and frantically work as a team to dismantle it. They manage to disarm the bomb a fraction of a second before it explodes. After a brief moment of relief, Conroy decides to arrest Paul. John refuses to cooperate and opens the door to the lab, revealing a large crowd, including Jenny and the press. The film ends with Paul freely departing the scene.

####The Medicine Bottle####
The drama presents a suspenseful story involving two small, nearly identical bottles: one filled with a much-needed liquid medicine; the other, with a topical antiseptic solution that is a deadly poison if taken internally. After the bottles accidentally get switched, a young woman in a desperate race against time tries repeatedly to telephone her seven-year-old daughter Alice to prevent the girl from giving her sick grandmother the poison.efn|Additional plot summaries of this film can be found on page 376 in the March 27, 1909 issue of the New York trade journal "The Moving Picture World" and on page 203 of Kemp P. Niver's extensive 1985 reference "Early Motion Pictures: The Paper Print Collection in the Library of Congress".

####Megiddo: The Omega Code 2####
Stone Alexander is a six-year-old boy whose mother has died giving birth to his younger brother, David. During a party at his influential father's home, Stone is left alone with David, who is in his crib. As Stone stares into the fireplace, a fiery force engulfs the boy, possessing him. Stone attempts to burn his baby brother, but David is saved by their nanny. Their father, Daniel (David Hedison), sends Stone away to a military academy in Italy for his education, under the guidance of General Francini (Franco Nero).

Not long after arriving at the academy, he is drawn to a church where he meets his demonic Guardian (Udo Kier) (who later becomes Stone's false prophet), and participates in a black mass ceremony. Years pass, and although Stone is periodically abused by some of his classmates, he eventually earns their respect, becoming the top student in his class. After graduating, Stone meets his younger brother David (Chad Michael Murray), who is now a teenager. Soon after graduation, Stone marries his Italian girlfriend, Gabriella, the daughter of General Francini. The General was initially against their marriage, but Stone summons two smoke-like demons to intimidate the General into giving in.

Eventually, Stone becomes President of the European Union Stone summons Benson to meet with him in Rome. Prior to departing for Italy, President Benson orders the U.S. Navy's Sixth Fleet to take up position off of the coast of Italy in the event of an emergency.

Accompanying the president on his flight to Italy is David Alexander (Michael Biehn), who is now the Vice President of the United States, and the president's military aide, U.S. Marine Colonel Rick Howard (Gil Colon). During an informal meeting on Air Force One, David and Col. Howard warn the president to keep his distance from Stone, due to a CIA report, which indicates that over 200 people who had opposed Stone in the past had died under questionable circumstances after close contact. Unfortunately, Benson fails to grasp just how ruthless Stone really is; Stone kills him with a supernaturally induced heart attack. David is sworn in as the new President at the hour of President Benson's death.

Much to Stone's disappointment, his brother also refuses to join his New World Order. Secretary of State Breckenridge (Jim Metzler) however, wants the United States to join the global community aligned with Stone. After failing to convince David to fall in line with the World Union, he publicizes a doctored video of David murdering his father. In reality, it was Stone who killed him.

Breckenridge orders the FBI to arrest the president. After a heated exchange of gunfire between the Secret Service detail and the FBI agents, the president escapes by helicopter to Norfolk Naval Base, where the U.S. Navy brass provides him with transport to the Sixth Fleet on an amphibious assault ship. After arriving, David orders a special forces raid on Stone's castle headquarters in Rome; however, he discovers that Stone is already in Israel. David finds Gabriella (Diane Venora) in the dungeon, confined there by the Guardian after she witnessed some of Stone's demonic powers. She dies in David's arms after professing her love. Following the raid, Colonel Howard receives word that Breckenridge is sending U.S. troops to Israel to join Stone's military coalition, which are on the plains of Megiddo planning a strike on Jerusalem.

Following the raid in Rome, David and Colonel Howard move quietly to join U.S. forces already in Israel. Unknown to Stone, the Mexicans, Chinese, and Americans are really there to destroy Stone and his army. David attempts to kill Stone himself but is soon captured.

Later, Chinese tanks open fire upon his European troops from one side while U.S. and Mexican forces attack from the other. Shortly afterwards, Stone's troops are hit by air strikes as well. Taken completely by surprise, and with his forces being quickly overrun, Stone instructs all his soldiers to fight to the death. After overrunning Stone's armored and artillery positions, the Mexican tanks charge headlong, targeting the enemy headquarters.

Stone and his officers are swallowed in a huge fireball as tank shells rain in. David barely manages to break free and jump away before the headquarters explodes behind him.  David is stunned as Stone walks out of the ashes unharmed. He then morphs into a massive creature with some ram's horns and huge leather wings. David realizes in horror that the creature is the incarnation of the devil himself. After fatally wounding David, Stone/Satan summons up his dark brethren as reinforcements and revives his dead army. In a full display of his supernatural powers, he even darkens the sun, plunging the whole battlefield into darkness.

The reinforcements soon outnumber and overrun the Mexican, Chinese, and American forces. In triumph, Stone/Satan, celebrates as he cries out loudly that he is Lord. At this boast, a bright white light lances down into the ruins of the headquarters and begins dropping meteors of light upon the battlefield. All of Stone's soldiers are killed, while all of the allied survivors remain untouched, and are freed from their bonds. Stone's former Guardian is dismayed at Stone/Satan's defeat and tries to run from the battlefield. A globe of light chases him and quickly impales him with swords of pure light, causing him to be vaporized. Stone/Satan himself is driven to his knees and forced to admit that Jesus Christ is the one true Lord. The light then pulverizes the ground beneath him, dropping Stone/Satan (who is trying in vain to hang onto a ledge and is calling out for David to come and save him right before he loses his grip while shouting Nazarene) into a deep pit of molten lava, the Lake of fire. There he finds out that he is chained, and screams in anguish, defeated. As David lies on the ground looking up into the sky smiling, the light becomes brighter, and then fades away, revealing a scene of an Earthly paradise. A scripture is revealed on screen that God has established his home with man, and that He shall reign forever, and ever.

####Melancholy Baby####
Zachariah Block is a shut-in who spends much of his day compulsively sorting and resorting ordinary objects into jars. His routine changes when a woman moves into the apartment next door. By listening to her movements through the walls and watching her through a vent, he becomes drawn into her life. When he senses that she is in danger, this very eccentric and alienated character overcomes his debilitating fears, summons up a small act of genuine courage, and saves his neighbors life.

####Metallica: Through the Never####
Amid aerial footage of Vancouver and BC Place, a radio DJ publicizes Metallica's concert. An overweight heavy-metal fan drives into the empty parking lot, and climbs on the car's hood, whooping and laughing. Trip (Dane DeHaan), a roadie for Metallica, skateboards past the fan and wipes out. He skates into the underground parking lot and down the dressing-room halls, encountering each of the band members. When he gives a brown paper bag to his supervisor, Trip is told to stick around. After standing in the arena, he walks away as the audience files in to Metallica's traditional opener, "Ecstasy of Gold".

The band begins performing, and during "Creeping Death" Trip's boss tells him to bring gas to a stranded truck carrying "something very important". Before driving his van, Trip takes a blue-and-red capsule, before the band begins "For Whom the Bell Tolls".

As Metallica begins "Fuel", Trip drives down deserted streets. Distracted by his map, he runs a red light and sees a bloody hand print on an illuminated sign. He is T-boned, and his van flips, lightning flashing as he leaves, which leads into "Ride the Lightning" (alongside a steel electric chair surrounded by four Tesla coils reminiscent of the album's artwork.)

Trip crawls out of the van, peers into the other car and calls to the driver (who is standing with his back to him). The driver glances at Trip, and runs past him down the street, "One" beginning to be played. Trip retrieves the gas tank, the map and a doll with a noose around its neck from the van, which "The Memory Remains" is played to. He wanders down a street, and a police horse drags a dead officer across his path. People run past him, ignoring him, followed by police cruisers (one of which is ablaze). Emerging in the middle of a street, Trip realizes he is between a motionless group of rioters and riot police. The rioters then become rowdy, and when the police throw tear gas they swarm over them. Stunned by the violence, Trip stands in front of a window, which then shatters.

A rider in a gas mask on an armored horse charges, wielding a war hammer. He lassos a rioter, hanging him from a streetlamp. Trip throws a brick at the rider, who gives chase. Trip loses the doll, but escapes through a wall of rioters, surging into "Cyanide".

He walks down a deserted, littered street, under a dozen bodies hanging from a pedestrian bridge, leading into "...And Justice for All". Trip finds the truck he is looking for in a deserted parking-garage corridor, but the driver (a middle-aged man) is traumatized and does not notice him. The back of the truck contains a leather bag, which Trip opens; he slumps, speechless, as the band breaks into "Master of Puppets".

He sees a figure waving at him from a distance. The rider approaches the figure, and a group of rioters surge past them. Trip grabs the bag and the can of gas, jumps out of the truck and flees.

He is cornered at the end of an alley by the rioters. Trip ties a black bandanna around his mouth, puts up his hood and drops the bag. He douses himself with the gas, sets himself ablaze and charges the rioters, who eventually overwhelm him, beginning "Battery".

After the band finishes "Nothing Else Matters", Trip wakes up (to "Enter Sandman") on the roof of a building; his lost doll, now animated, approaches the leather bag. As Trip gets up, he is lassoed and pulled onto the rider's horse. He grabs the rider's hammer to free himself and slams the roof with it. Shock waves rumble across the city, shattering glass and the exteriors of surrounding buildings and disintegrating the rider and his horse. The reverberation affects Metallica's concert, cutting the power and knocking down lighting trusses. With a backup generator, the band continues the concert without pyrotechnics and a light show, playing "Hit the Lights".

Trip returns to the deserted stadium with the doll and the bag under his arm. The credits roll to scenes of the band performing "Orion" to the empty stadium. Trip takes a seat; the final shot is of the still-closed leather bag which belonged to Cliff Burton on the "Master of Puppets" tour.

####Midnighters####
Midnight, New Year's Eve: when all the hopes of new beginnings come to life - except for Lindsey and Jeff Pittman, whose strained marriage faces the ultimate test after they cover up a terrible crime and find themselves entangled in a Hitchcockian web of deceit and madness.

####Mind Games####
Rita and Dana Lund's marriage is in a crisis, Rita's frustrated from being just a housewife. To save their marriage, they set out for a camping trip through California with their son. At a camping site they meet the hitch-hiker Eric, who befriends their son. Against Rita's will, Dana takes him with them, not knowing that he's a brutal psychopath who'll force their son to participate in his nightly trips of vandalism.

####Miss Meadows####
Miss Mary Meadows is a young woman who works as a substitute first-grade elementary school teacher who enjoys taking long walks in her suburban neighborhood, wearing traditional clothing and tap-dancing shoes. Unknown to everyone, she is a secret vigilante who kills local thugs who accost her or when she witnesses them committing crimes. She always carries a small semi-automatic pistol in her purse and speaks in a childlike, innocent manner. She lives by herself in a small house and talks occasionally with her mother over the telephone about what she did during the day.

Investigating the vigilante killings is a local sheriff. He soon meets and develops an attraction to Miss Meadows due to her old-fashioned clothing and style of speech. When he begins to suspect that the woman he finds himself drawn to may be the suspect he is looking for, the sheriff is torn between whether to arrest or protect her.

When Miss Meadows meets an ex-convict named Skylar, who she learns served time for molesting young children, she begins to fear for her young students' safety. When Miss Meadows approaches and threatens to kill Skylar if he continues hanging around the school or around her kids, he begins stalking her.

It is eventually revealed that all of the telephone conversations that Miss Meadows has been having with her mother over the course of the film are imaginary. As a young girl, Mary Meadows witnessed her mother's murder in a drive-by shooting outside a local church after attending the wedding of a family friend. This traumatic incident left Miss Meadows so emotionally scarred that she entered a fantasy world in which she imagined that her mother was still alive, then began to go after and kill criminals whom she viewed as a threat to society.

The various criminals that Miss Meadows kills on-screen include a trucker who tries to abduct her at gunpoint in the opening scene, a young man who committed a mass shooting at a local diner, and the town's Catholic priest whom Miss Meadows finds sexually molesting a young boy.

When Miss Meadows learns that she is pregnant after a sexual encounter with the sheriff, she decides to accept his proposal of marriage. On the day of the wedding, Skylar kidnaps Heather, one of Miss Meadows's students, from her house, forcing Miss Meadows to go to Skylar's house (wearing her wedding dress) to try to stop him, only to end up a captive herself. When she manages to free Heather and struggle with Skylar over her gun, the sheriff, passing by after leaving the church, sees Heather running from Skylar's house as she shouts for help. Meanwhile, Skylar takes Miss Meadows' gun from her purse, aims it at her and asks, "Do you really think you can save the world? Well, try saving yourself first!" Just then, the sheriff arrives and fatally shoots Skylar in the head. Seeing Miss Meadows' gun still clutched in Skylar's hand, he notes "it has his prints now". He and Miss Meadows proceed back to the church.

One year later, Miss Meadows and the Sheriff are married; she still wears her tap shoes and he has taken up the accordion. Now parents to a baby daughter, they are content to be peculiar together. As Miss Meadows prepares to go out before dinner, the sheriff tells her "be careful"; she replies "I always am", leaves the house, and does one final little tap dance on the sidewalk.

####Money Monster####
Flamboyant television financial expert Lee Gates is in the midst of the latest edition of his show, "Money Monster". Less than 24 hours earlier, IBIS Clear Capital's stock inexplicably cratered, apparently due to a glitch in a trading algorithm, costing investors $800 million. Lee planned to have IBIS CEO Walt Camby appear for an interview, but he unexpectedly departed for a business trip to Geneva, Switzerland.

Midway through the show, a deliveryman wanders onto the set, pulls a gun and takes Lee hostage, forcing him to put on a vest laden with explosives. The man reveals that his name is Kyle Budwell, who invested $60,000—his entire life savings—in IBIS after Lee endorsed the company on camera. He was wiped out along with the other investors. Unless he gets some answers, Kyle will blow up Lee before killing himself. Once police are notified, they discover that the receiver to the bomb's vest is located over Lee's kidney. The only way to destroy the receiver—and with it, Kyle's leverage—is to shoot Lee and hope he survives.

With the help of longtime director Patty Fenn, Lee tries to calm Kyle and locate Camby, though Kyle is dissatisfied when both Lee and IBIS chief communications officer Diane Lester offer to compensate him for his financial loss. He is angered by Diane's insistence that the algorithm is to blame. Diane is not satisfied with her own explanation, either, and defies colleagues by contacting a programmer who created the algorithm, Won Joon. Reached in Seoul, Joon insists that an algorithm could not take such a large, lopsided position without someone meddling with it.

Lee appeals to his TV viewers for help, seeking to recoup the lost investment, but is dejected by their response. The NYPD find Kyle's pregnant girlfriend Molly and allow her to talk to Kyle through a video feed. When she learns that he lost everything, she viciously berates him before the police cut the feed. Lee, siding with Kyle, agrees to help his captor discover what went wrong.

Once Camby arrives, Diane flips through his passport, discovering that instead of going to Geneva he went to Johannesburg. With this clue, along with messages from Camby's phone, Patty and the "Money Monster" team contact a group of Icelandic hackers to seek the truth. After a police sniper misses a shot at Lee, he and Kyle resolve to corner Camby at Federal Hall National Memorial, where, according to Diane, Camby is headed. They head out with network cameramen, Lenny, plus the police, and a mob of fans and jeerers alike. Having earned his trust, Kyle admits to Lee that the vest did not actually contain explosives, simply clay. Kyle accidentally shoots and wounds producer Ron Sprecher when Ron throws Lee a new earpiece. Kyle and Lee finally confront Camby with video evidence obtained by the hackers.

Camby had bribed a South African miners' union, planning to have IBIS make an $800 million investment in a platinum mine while the union was on strike. The strike lowered the mine's owner's stock, allowing Camby to buy it at a low price. Had his plan succeeded, IBIS would have generated a multibillion-dollar profit when mine work resumed and the owner's stock owner rose again. The gambit backfired when the union stayed on the picket line. Camby attempted to bribe union leader Moshe Mambo to stop the strike, but he refused, causing IBIS' stock to sink under the weight of its position in the failing company.

Despite the evidence, Camby refuses to admit his swindle until Kyle takes the explosive vest off Lee and puts it on him. He finally admits to his wrongdoing on live camera. Satisfied with the outcome, Kyle throws the detonator away. Then Kyle, much to Lee's dismay, gets fatally shot by the police. Lee punches Camby, as his greed and corruption cost Kyle his life. In the aftermath, the SEC announces that IBIS will be placed under investigation, while Camby is charged with violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.

Lee and Patty reconcile, wondering how they follow their last broadcast.

####Mother's Boys####
Jude Madigan (Curtis) suddenly and inexplicably leaves her husband, Robert (Gallagher), and three sons. Three years later, when Robert finally files for divorce, Jude returns and tries to reclaim her former life. Robert refuses and insists on the divorce. Jude does not accept Robert's decision. She tries, unsuccessfully, to seduce him and harasses Robert's new girlfriend, Callie (Whalley). Eventually, Jude manipulates and convinces her eldest son, Kes (Luke Edwards), that Callie is the only person standing in the way of their reunited family.

Influenced by Jude, Kes details a plan to his two brothers, Michael and Ben (Colin Ward and Joey Zimmerman), to scare off Callie, convincing them that it is just a game. As the boys debate the plan, Jude's estranged mother, Lydia (Redgrave), overhears and confronts Kes and threatens to tell their father. Kes tries unsuccessfully to convince his grandmother that it was just a "game" and tries to stop her from calling his father. A brief struggle ensues and Lydia accidentally falls down the stairs.

While in the hospital, Lydia tells Jude she is not about to let her go through with her plans. She also tells Jude that her father "committed a great sin" against Jude, suggesting that Jude's father might have been molesting her from a young age (which might explain Jude's current erratic and sociopathic behavior). Lydia then goes on to say that she had planned on taking Jude away from her father (viewers are led to believe that this is the reason behind Jude's father's suicide). In a fit of rage, Jude then tries to murder her mother by asphyxiation but is interrupted by a nurse, Jude then flees the hospital. In a state of grief, Jude vandalizes her apartment by smashing the windows, furniture, and fixtures.

Meanwhile, the boys, under the guise of playing the game, handcuff Callie and put her on "trial" for destroying their family. They tie her to a chair but when Ben cuts himself on a broken glass, Callie convinces Michael to free her before his brother dies. She runs with him in an attempt to find a hospital.

Kes and Michael get in Callie's car and chase them, but the brakes have been cut by Jude and they go over a cliff, leaving them perched precariously on a tree on the side of the cliff. Callie manages to rescue Michael, but as she tries to rescue Kes, she slips and is left dangling from the car. Jude rushes to "help" by grabbing Callie's hand from Kes. Jude intentionally lets go of Callie's hand, who still manages to hang onto the car with her other hand. However, Jude loses her balance and falls to her death.

The film ends with Robert's emotional embrace of Kes, who is very shaken after having a nightmare of Jude coming back from the dead. Callie is right by Robert's side, comforting them both.

####Mystery Woman####
Top-secret documents being transported by French captain Jacques Benoit are stolen in Constantinople, resulting in his arrest and sentencing to Devil's Island. Determined to vindicate him, wife Margaret learns that Jacques had met wealthy Dr. Van Wyke in transit. Suspecting him, she books passage on an ocean liner to New York City under an assumed name and schemes to meet Van Wyke during the voyage.

Attracting romantic interest from passenger Juan Santanda as well as from Van Wyke, she finds the stolen documents and tries to hide them. Santanda turns out to be a jewel thief.  When she explains her true identity and purpose, he uses a blowtorch to open a safe and help her retrieve the documents, then sacrifices his own life when she is trapped, staying behind as he and Van Wyke kill one another. Jacques Benoit is released and presented the Legion of Honor medal.

####Natural Enemy####
Ted Robards, in the past a successful stock broker, is on the verge of financial ruin. His son, Chris, has disappointed Ted a long time ago, creating only troubles for him. His wife, Sandy, is obsessed with the idea of having the second child. Ted's last hope is a promising young employee, Jeremy Harper, a stellar Harvard alumnus, who is able to sign an important deal that will save Ted and his firm from imminent bankruptcy. However, Jeremy only pretends to support the firm. His real desire is to secretly destroy Ted's business from within, while also wreaking havoc on the whole Robards family.

Trying to keep Jeremy in the firm, Ted tries to fulfill at least one of his requests—he offers Jeremy and his girlfriend to move in with him and thus solve their housing issue. Jeremy agrees, but his appearance in the house only accelerates the Robards' demise. In vain, Ted and Sandy try to understand what caused Jeremy's unexpected aggression. But flashbacks reveal Jeremy's traumatic childhood and his hidden motivation. Later, it turns out that Ted's now pregnant wife has some dark secrets that may explain Jeremy's twisted plans to destroy her family.

####Navy Spy####
A federal agent tackles a gang of international criminals attempting to sabotage the American navy.

####Night Club Scandal####
After murdering his unfaithful wife in their apartment, Dr. Ernest Tindal leaves and her lover, Frank, discovers the body. Frank panics and flees, leaving his fingerprints. He is arrested, convicted and condemned to die.

A newspaper reporter, Kirk, and a police captain, McKinley, continue to investigate, particularly after Kirk becomes attracted to Vera, the suspect's sister. They successfully prove how Frank was falsely accused while Tindal conspires with gangsters Jack and Julia Reed, still hoping to get away with the crime. Tindal ends up shooting Jack but is taken into custody by McKinley.

####The Night Stalker####
Sergeant J.J. Striker, a hard-drinking cop, teams up with a hooker to track down a serial killer that kills prostitutes and paints Chinese symbols on his victims.

####Night Teeth####
Benny, a freelance chauffeur driving in place of his brother Jay, is hired by friends Blaire and Zoe to drive them to several popular Los Angeles nightclubs. Unbeknownst to him, the girls are both vampires.

The movie then reveals that vampires have co-existed peacefully with humans for centuries, feeding only by consent. Victor, a wealthy vampire lord who has grown bored and discontented with his life, is planning to subvert the system by kidnapping Jay's girlfriend, breaking the truce with Boyle Heights; unbeknownst to Benny, Jay is secretly part of the human council charged with maintaining the peace between vampires and humans. As Jay and his allies begin hunting down all of the vampires in LA, Victor executes a plan to wipe out his fellow lords and seize power for himself while tasking Blaire and Zoe with creating as much chaos in the city as they can to distract the vampire hunters and peacekeepers.

When Benny drops the girls off at a hotel, he discovers that the hotel is actually a feeding ground for vampires and realizes what Blaire and Zoe are using him for. The girls threaten his life, but spare him so they can get to Jay. During a visit to one of their targets, the girls are trapped by vampire hunters, but Benny decides to help them escape and lets them hide at his home. Benny then learns that Victor has his brother, who lost to the vampire in hand-to-hand combat while trying to slay him.

Benny drops the girls off at the last location on their list and discovers that the home belongs to Victor. Blaire urges him to leave, but Benny refuses to abandon his brother. Inside the house, Benny finds several human prisoners being kept by the lord as "blood bags" for him to feed on, including Jay, but is captured by Victor while trying to free him. Victor and Zoe then threaten to kill him, leading Blaire to turn against Victor and Zoe, after realizing that she has feelings for Benny. In the struggle that follows, Zoe stabs Blaire and in retaliation, Benny remotely activates his brother's car, smashing a window and exposing sunlight which kills Zoe. Victor then attacks Benny using Jay as bait, and manages to bite Benny before Jay tackles him into sunlight, killing him. Benny soon transforms into a vampire and the brothers go their separate ways after Jay decides to start training as a professional vampire hunter and tells Benny that he expects him to fight by his side when the city plunges into chaos. Later that night, Benny meets Blaire for an evening out.

####Night Walk####
Frank is a bachelor who has no plan of being tied down, that is until he meets Sarah. Sarah, an Arab woman from another country, changes Frank's perspective on love. Frank, who never wanted to settle down, falls for Sarah and they develop a love that will soon be forbidden. On the evening of Frank's planned proposal in Sarah's homeland, they decide to take a walk around town, when they get themselves into a violent scuffle with local corrupt police that ends in Sarah being killed. Scared of the international backlash, the police instantly frame Frank for the murder of Sarah. Helped by a corrupt American judge, Frank gets sent to prison where he immediately gets brutally beaten. Frank soon meets a Muslim inmate that takes him under his wing and guides him to get justice. While Frank is trying to prove his innocence, he continues to get shut down by the crooked judge who has other devious intentions. Frank now has to deal with the loss of his beloved girlfriend while battling for his innocence with a corrupt justice system.

####No Exit####
Recovering addict Darby Thorne learns that her mother is in the hospital after suffering a brain aneurysm, and is undergoing emergency surgery. She escapes rehab and drives to Salt Lake City. While stopped in the middle of the road, Corporal Ron Hill tells her that the interstate is closed because of a developing blizzard. She agrees to stay overnight at a local visitor's center. The only people inside are Ash, Lars, and married couple Ed and Sandi. Darby goes outside to look for cellphone signal and ends up discovering a kidnapped girl in a van belonging to one of the people inside.

Playing a round of Bullshit, Darby uses her knowledge of the van's license plate to question the others and deduce that Lars is the kidnapper. She goes to the bathroom and uses a hole in the wall to go back outside. Darby breaks into the van and talks to the girl, promising to save her. Unaware of her presence, Lars enters the van and reveals the girl's name to be Jay. Inside, Ed grows suspicious of Lars's strange behavior. As Lars exits the van to bring Jay some food, Darby goes back inside the cabin through the hole in the wall.

Jay has Addison's disease, which can cause an adrenaline overdose if she becomes too stressed. In the bathroom, Darby tells Ash about Jay. Ash agrees to help her. When Darby goes outside, however, Ash reveals that he is Lars's brother and an accomplice in the kidnapping. Ash takes Darby back inside and threatens to kill her if she informs Ed and Sandi about Jay. Outside, Jay cuts herself free and runs into the woods. In the bathroom, Darby attacks Ash, but he gains the upper hand. Lars goes through the hole in the wall and stops his brother from strangling Darby. In the struggle, Darby takes Ash's keys.

Ash and Lars force Darby to help them look for Jay. They reveal that they are transporting her to their Uncle Kenny, who runs a human trafficking ring. Darby uses a flashlight to blind the kidnappers and runs away. Ash fires his firearm, alerting Ed and Sandi. Ed and Sandi find Jay unconscious in the snow. Darby goes inside the cabin and tells Ed and Sandi about the kidnappers. After locking the entrance, Ed negotiates with Ash and Lars. He promises to give them the car keys if they give Jay the medicine she needs to survive. As Darby hides the keys, Ash and Lars cover the cabin in gasoline. Jay wakes up and identifies Sandi as her maid. A flashback reveals that Sandi helped Ash and Lars take Jay from her home. She agreed to meet with the kidnappers to give them Jay's medicine. In the present, Sandi lets Ash and Lars inside.

After learning that Darby is the only person who knows where the keys are, Ash kills Ed and Sandi and uses a nail gun to staple Darby to a wall. Her phone receives a text message; Ash reads it and informs her that her mother has died. Another text reveals that Corporal Ron is on his way to the cabin. When Ash threatens to hurt Jay, Darby reveals the key's whereabouts. Ash gives his gun to Lars before leaving to search for the keys. Darby tells Jay to turn off the lights.

Darby snorts heroin to numb the pain receptors to pull the nail out of her hand. With Lars distracted, she takes his gun as Ash returns. During a standoff with Darby holding Lars hostage, Jay hits Ash's nailgun with a hammer, thus shooting a nail in Lars' forehead. Darby and Jay run outside to make their escape. Ash punctures their vehicle and sets the cabin on fire. After Corporal Ron arrives, Darby shoots Ash while Ron shoots Darby. Ash takes her weapon and shoots Ron dead. As he prepares to kill Darby, she uses a screwdriver to puncture his neck, killing him. Darby uses Ron's radio to call for help. In a flash-forward, Darby's sister Devon visits her in rehab.

####Not Forgotten####
Jack Bishop (Simon Baker) works as a loan officer in Del Rio, Texas, and is remarried to Amaya Bishop (Paz Vega), living with her and his daughter Toby Bishop (Chloë Grace Moretz) from his first marriage. Toby is kidnapped by an unknown perpetrator leading to the involvement of the local police and eventually the FBI. The FBI begins inquiring in Jack's past only to find out he has no official records dating back farther than ten years, and there is no evidence showing how his first wife had died or where she was buried.

A local petty criminal and repeated sex offender is initially thought to be the culprit, but it is revealed that the dangerous cult-like religious movement Santa Muerte, popular within Mexican criminal circles, might be involved. Jack's former life as a Santa Muerte worshiping hit man for the Mexican Mafia is revealed as he tries desperately to find out who kidnapped his daughter.  We later learn that Jack was really named Roberto.  Though born in Oklahoma, his drug addicted mother took him to Mexico when she was young.  She later died, and Roberto had to make a life for himself on the streets.  He ultimately became an enforcer for the Mexican Mafia.  He married a woman named Katie, and they had a child, Toby.  Jack escapes from the FBI in Texas and makes his way across the border to Acuna.  There he is accused of murdering a prostitute who was trying to help him find Toby.  Though he did not do it, the Mexican police arrest him.  Jack is later able to escape from the Mexican jail in disguise.  Still in Acuna, he makes his presence known.  As he planned, he lured the assassin who was looking for him to come to his hotel.  They fight and Jack beats the assassin, who he then tortures for information about Toby's whereabouts.  The assassin tells Jack that Toby was kidnapped by Katie, Jack's/Roberto's ex-wife.  Jack breaks into the brothel that Katie now runs in Acuna and confronts Katie, who is herself furious that Jack/Roberto ran out on her without warning and took Toby with him.  Jack thinks Katie is lying when she says she does not know where Toby is, and murders her.

In the film's denouement, we realize that the real kidnapper was Jack's new wife, Amaya, with the help of her cousin, the sheriff in Del Rio (who throughout the film appeared as if he was trying to help Jack and that he believed Jack's innocence).  We learn that the flashback we have seen throughout the film—of Jack/Roberto strangling a man at Katie's behest as she looks on in delight—has new meaning.  The man Roberto strangled was Amaya's father.  Worse still, Amaya was in the room with Roberto and Katie when they strangled her father, hiding under the bed.  Amaya's father was a degenerate gambler who owed a large debt to Katie and the Mexican Mob, and when he could not pay, Katie had Roberto kill him.  Amaya witnessed all of this.  We realize that she then set in motion an elaborate plan to emigrate to the United States and marry Jack/Roberto in order to punish him for murdering her father.  It was Amaya and the sheriff who kidnapped Toby.  Amaya and the sheriff set fire to the room where Jack is (the same room where he killed Amaya's father many years ago).  But Jack is able to see that Toby is tied up on the bed in the room.  He manages to free her and they escape the fire unhurt.

The viewer thinks this is the end of the movie and that it has a happy ending.  But we then learn, in a final twist, the truth.  Amaya did not really kidnap Toby.  When Amaya explained to Toby who her father really was, Amaya was able to enlist Toby (using the magic of Santa Muerte) to help exact an even worse revenge on Jack/Roberto.  Amaya tells Toby that her father will kill her mother (which in fact happened earlier when Jack was duped by the assassin he tortured into killing Katie to find Toby).  Amaya told Toby that Santa Muerte magic would give her the strength to carry out a terrible revenge on her father for that murder.  So Amaya purposefully let Jack and Toby escape.  Her plan was for them to live happily for many years and then for Toby to kill her father.  In the final scene, we see Jack and Toby fleeing deeper into Mexico on an old bus.  As she sits and watches the countryside go by, we hear Toby reciting the same Santa Muerta chant for power that others (including Jack) said throughout the movie.

####Not Safe for Work####
John Ferguson, a whistleblower at Denning, a major pharmaceutical company, becomes disillusioned with the perceived lack of action taken against the company, murders several executives, and commits suicide as the police enter the building. Tom Miller, a paralegal assigned to the Denning case, subsequently loses confidence in the scheduled trial against Denning, as Ferguson was their star witness. Miller's boss criticizes his idealism as financially unsound, and when Miller writes an unsolicited memo on an unrelated case on the Gambizzi crime family, Alan Emmerich, one of the partners at the law firm, fires him. Roger, Miller's friend and a fellow paralegal, initially commiserates with Miller, but returns to the office in order to work late. Emmerich sends everyone else, including Miller's girlfriend, Anna, home early due to a technical problem with the firm's Internet access.

As Miller leaves the building, he sees a man in a suit set down a briefcase. A different man then picks up the suitcase and enters an elevator.  Curious, Miller follows the man with the briefcase, only to see him produce a pistol from the briefcase and murder Janine, a lawyer. Panicked, Miller hides from the killer in the bathroom, where he discovers the body of a security guard. When he alerts Roger to the danger, Roger objects to Miller's plan to save Emmerich, as Roger does not believe that Emmerich would do the same for them. Regardless, Miller instructs Roger to contact the authorities as he tries to find Emmerich. Before Roger can make the call, the killer finds and strangles him. As Miller's recharging cell phone chimes, the killer realizes that there are more people left in the building than he anticipated.

Miller uses his knowledge of the building's security to evade capture and eventually discovers Emmerich in an office with a woman who Emmerich identifies as Lorraine Gambizzi. When the killer breaks into the room, Gambizzi grabs a pistol, but the killer is able to shoot her first. Not noticing Miller, who hides, the killer spares Emmerich's life and orders him to stay in the office. When the killer leaves, Miller surmises that the killer is a Gambizzi hitman sent to kill Lorraine, who was going to testify against her husband. With her death, Miller hopes the killer will leave. However, the killer attempts to gain entry into the record room, a reinforced vault that Miller and Emmerich use as a safe room. Using Miller's recharged cell phone, the killer draws Anna back to the building and taunts Miller with this fact.

The killer takes Anna hostage as soon as she arrives. Drawn out of the vault, Miller attempts to trade his access card for Anna's life, but the killer reneges on the deal, wounding Emmerich as he shoots at them. Now with access to the records, the killer starts a fire, only to realize that Miller tricked him into accepting a fake access card. Locked in the vault as the records burn, he chokes and falls unconscious. Miller enters the room to extinguish the fire, after which he realizes that the killer has recovered. As the killer beats Miller, Anna knocks him out with a fire extinguisher. Emmerich recovers the killer's pistol and fatally injures him. Before he dies, the killer whispers a code to Miller.

Curious about the killer's last words, Miller investigates further and discovers that Emmerich likely targeted Roger for assassination because of his own whistleblowing about how the law firm was intending to throw the Denning case. When he confronts Emmerich, Emmerich begs him to destroy the evidence, as Emmerich believes the pharmaceutical company to be more powerful and ruthless than any crime family. When Miller refuses, Emmerich commits suicide. As Miller and Anna leave the building, the killer's earlier accomplice, now revealed to be a police officer, alerts his superiors, and a hitman outside the building radios that he has visual confirmation of Miller.

####Old####
Guy and Prisca Cappa are going through a divorce. To avoid saddening their young children⁠ Maddox and Trent⁠, the couple take them to a tropical resort as a final family vacation. At their hotel, Guy and Prisca are given complimentary drinks and the children befriend Idlib, the resort manager's nephew. At night, Maddox and Trent overhear their parents arguing and play a message decoding game with Idlib.

The next morning, the manager invites the family to a secluded beach where three additional parties are present: rapper Brendan "Mid-Sized Sedan" and his female companion; surgeon Charles, his elderly mother Agnes, his wife Chrystal and their young daughter Kara; as well as Jarin and Patricia Carmichael, a close-knit husband and wife. Trent⁠ discovers the corpse of Brendan's companion. Charles grows suspicious of Brendan, who reveals that he has been experiencing nosebleeds because of his hemophilia. After the children rapidly turn into teenagers and Agnes suddenly dies, the families conclude that the beach is aging them, with the occupants undergoing the equivalent of one year of aging every 30 minutes. At least one member of each family has an underlying medical condition. They discover that trying to leave will result in them blacking out and waking up back to where they left.

In a fit of rage, Charles cuts Brendan with a pocket knife, and the group watches as his injury quickly heals. After Prisca develops a stomach tumor, Charles performs a successful surgery to remove it. Brendan discovers that the body of his companion has fully decomposed in a matter of hours. Kara and Trent continue to age, and after having sex with each other, Kara gets pregnant. She gives birth, but the baby dies due to the time rapidly passing. The attempts to leave grow increasingly tense as Charles's worsening schizophrenia causes him to kill Brendan. As the day goes on, Jarin drowns, Kara falls to her death, and Patricia suffers a fatal epileptic seizure. Guy's eyesight blurs and Prisca suffers hearing loss. Trent and Maddox discover the notebook of a previous traveler, along with indications of their being watched. At night, Charles attacks Guy and Prisca in a schizophrenic episode; Prisca runs as Charles continues to attack Guy. Chrystal's hypocalcemia results in her bones rupturing, killing her.  Prisca returns and slashes Charles with a rusted knife, instigating a fatal blood infection that kills him. An elderly Guy and Prisca make amends before dying moments apart from each other.

With only the now-middle-aged Maddox and Trent remaining by the next morning, the pair construct a sandcastle. They revisit a secret message given to them by Idlib, which Trent deduces is connected to an underwater coral passage. Believing that the passage will allow them to leave the beach without losing consciousness, he and his sister start swimming through the coral. After they seemingly fail to emerge from the water, a resort employee who is monitoring them reports that the entire group has died. He gives the news to the manager, who mentions a previous incident where a guest almost escaped from the beach before announcing that trial 73 has concluded.

It is revealed that the resort is a front for a research team from the pharmaceutical company Warren & Warren that was conducting clinical trials of new medical drugs, which are administered to guests with medical conditions by spiking their drinks. Because the beach naturally accelerates the lives of the guests, the researchers have been able to complete the lifelong drug trials within a day. The researchers lure a new group to the beach, but are interrupted by Trent and Maddox, who survived their underwater swim, using the notebook as evidence that they gave to vacationing police officer Greg Mitchel, who informs his boss of the researchers' crimes. The researchers are mentioned to have been arrested with subpoenas sent to the rest of Warren & Warren as Greg plans to reunite Trent and Maddox with their aunt.

####Old Henry####
Widower Henry McCarty and his son Wyatt live on a farm in Oklahoma Territory in 1906 near Henry's brother-in-law Al. After Henry and Wyatt find a lost horse with blood on the saddle, Henry locates its owner, a near-dead man named Curry. Next to Curry is a pistol and a satchel full of money. Henry wants no part of it and gets on his horse to leave the man be. But he changes his mind and brings the unconscious Curry, and the money, back to the farm to treat his wounds. Henry interrogates Curry, who claims to be a lawman and the sole survivor of a posse sent after a gang of outlaws. He asks for help keeping the outlaws from retrieving the money he managed to steal from them.

While his father goes to town for help, Wyatt secretly takes Curry's gun to practice shooting. Curry slips free and tries to wrestle back the gun, but Henry suddenly appears and overpowers him. Henry reveals that he turned back after spotting three men investigating the spot where he first found Curry. The trio, wearing sheriff's badges and led by a man named Sam Ketchum, come to the farm in search of Curry. They claim that Curry is the real outlaw but arouse Henry's suspicions when Ketchum begins asking questions about Henry's own identity and family.

Henry does not give up Curry, and the men leave after a tense standoff. That evening, Henry has a conversation with Curry in which the latter reveals detailed knowledge of people known to Henry, which convinces Henry to undo some of his restraints. Curry tells of his experiences as a young ranch hand who witnessed the death of Billy the Kid. One of Ketchum's men, Duggan, tries to sneak under the house so he can shoot Henry from below. Henry spots him, forces Duggan out with a shotgun, and strangles him to death while Wyatt watches.

The next morning, Ketchum returns with his gang. Curry encourages Henry to surrender and turn him over, arguing that they should not die for his sake. However, Ketchum then takes Al as a hostage and, when Henry refuses to surrender, shoots him in cold blood. After stopping his son from running outside and getting killed, Henry goes into his room and arms himself with several guns, telling Wyatt "Keep your damn head down, you'll be alright". Curry recognizes the phrase as something Billy the Kid said to him years ago and realizes that Henry is in fact Billy the Kid, who faked his own death with the help of a sympathetic Pat Garrett.

Henry pretends to surrender before shooting Ketchum in the face, gunning down several men, and slipping out the back door of his farmhouse. Whilst Curry and Wyatt hold off the remaining gang members, Henry stealthily eliminates the gang until only Stilwell, the gang's tracker, is left. Stilwell tosses his guns and tries to use his throwing knife, but Henry shoots it out of his hand and then shoots him through his eye.

Henry suddenly comes under fire as Ketchum emerges, revealing that the shot only mangled his cheek. Both men chase and shoot at each other until Ketchum runs out of bullets, with Henry using his last shot to blow the outlaw's head off. Returning to the house, Henry is about to bandage up the injured Curry when he spots a brand on his arm used for marking criminals. Curry shoots Henry in the stomach, admitting that he was in fact a lawman, but sold out his colleagues so Ketchum's gang could impersonate them and steal the money. He was injured only because he tried to double-cross Ketchum. Curry apologizes but says that the chance to be the man who killed Billy the Kid is too much for him to resist.

Wyatt overhears all this, loads his father's shotgun, and kills Curry before he can finish off Henry. Wyatt tries to help his father, but Henry tells him that it is too late. Henry speaks earnestly to his son, telling him that the world is changing, and Henry has no place in it anymore but that he hoped his son would now find a place for himself after teaching him to be an honest man. He dies in Wyatt's arms. Wyatt buries his father next to his mother and leaves the farm along with the gang's cash, two horses, and their few possessions.

####On the Count of Three####
Despite being offered a promotion, depressed mulch factory worker Val tries to commit suicide in a toilet stall at work, but stops when his annoying co-worker enters the restroom while singing "It's a Great Day to Be Alive" to himself. Val breaks up with his girlfriend Natasha and quits his job, then helps his best friend Kevin escape from the psychiatric hospital where he was placed after he had also tried to commit suicide three days earlier. Val tells Kevin that suicide is the answer, despite what people are taught, and the two agree to simultaneously shoot each other in the face. Kevin panics and smacks Val's hand away when Val pulls the trigger, then convinces Val that they should at least celebrate their last day of life. While the two eat at a diner and discuss what to do with their final day, Kevin's former school bully walks in with his wife and child and joyfully reminisces about severely injuring him.

Kevin's main goal is to kill Dr. Brenner, the child psychiatrist who molested him. However, when a receptionist tells Val and Kevin that Brenner does not arrive to work until late in the afternoon, they decide to return to his workplace later. Val learns that Natasha is pregnant, and tells Kevin that he had planned to marry her but backed out because he was scared. Val and Kevin ride dirt bikes at a motorcycle park owned by their friend Donny, but Val falls off his bike and cuts his leg open. Kevin aims his gun at a rude gas station attendant who makes him wait to buy medical supplies for Val, but he insists that he is using the gun to send a message rather than rob the station and pays for the supplies before leaving. Val visits his father Lyndell at his car workshop and tries to retrieve the money Lyndell had stolen from him when he was younger, causing a fistfight which ends when Kevin hits Lyndell with a tire iron and Val takes the money. Val goes to the jewelry store where he bought the ring for Natasha and returns it. He visits Natasha and tries to give her money to support her, but she criticizes him and encourages him to see a therapist. In the meantime, Kevin goes for a drive. He sees his former school bully and contemplates killing him, but changes his mind after watching him play with his daughter.

Late in the afternoon, Kevin goes through with his plan and visits Brenner. He forces Brenner to get on his knees and tries to shoot him, but forgets to take the safety off. Brenner hits Kevin and takes the gun away from him, then lectures him for forgetting about the safety. Val arrives and sees Brenner waving the gun at an injured Kevin; mistakenly thinking Brenner is about to shoot Kevin, he shoots Brenner in the head. In the car, Val tells Kevin that he does not want to die and that he would rather live so he can be there for his child. Attempting to escape a police chase, the two visit Donny and give him the keys to Val's car before riding away on dirt bikes while the police are distracted by Donny. Val and Kevin are spotted by police helicopters and decide to stop running away. Kevin tries to convince Val that suicide is still the answer to their problems, but Val does not change his mind about wanting to live. Kevin tells Val to blame Brenner's murder on him, then shoots himself in the head. A few years later, Val receives a Father's Day visit in prison from Natasha and their daughter.

####Once You Kiss a Stranger####
Jerry is a professional golfer. When a woman named Diana recognizes how much Jerry hates a rival player, Mike, she offers to commit murder if Jerry will do likewise for her.

The person she wants killed is Dr. Haggis, a psychiatrist who believes Diana to be dangerously disturbed and wants her institutionalized. Jerry doesn't take Diana seriously until she runs down Mike with a golf cart, then beats him to death with one of Jerry's clubs.

Threatening to give the murder weapon to the police, Diana insists that Jerry now get rid of the doctor. He doesn't know what to do, consulting estranged wife Lee while looking for a way out. The longer he delays doing Diana's murder, the angrier she gets, eventually attacking Lee.

####One Hour Photo####
Seymour "Sy" Parrish is a photo technician at a one-hour photo in big-box store SavMart. He lives alone, has no friends or love life, and lives only for his work, which he considers a "vital service". His favorite customers are the Yorkin family, whose photos he has developed for many years. Over the years, he has grown obsessed with the family, enshrining them in his home with their photos that he secretly copies. However, as he is shy and socially inept, his attempts to become closer to the family are gently rebuffed.

Sy eventually manages to spark a connection with Nina Yorkin when he pretends to be interested in a book that he saw her purchase. Nina learns that Sy lives a solitary existence, something only her son Jake had considered previously. The next day, store manager Bill Owens finishes an audit investigation on company expenditures. He discovers that Sy, over the span of nine years, has printed many more prints than have been ordered and paid for, as well as spacing out on the job, taking unauthorized 90-minute lunch breaks, giving away free merchandise (including a camera for Jake), and causing an altercation with the developing machine's maintenance person in front of customers. This results in Sy being fired from SavMart, but Bill allows him to finish the week.

While inspecting a customer's photos, Sy discovers that Will Yorkin is having an extramarital affair, and his idyllic conception of the Yorkins as the perfect family is shattered. He surreptitiously places the photos of Will and his mistress, Maya Burson, into a packet of photos that Nina was scheduled to pick up. Meanwhile, Sy then takes pictures paparazzi-style of Bill's young daughter, then sends the film with the photos to Yoshi (another SavMart employee), who then turns them over to Bill. This triggers a police investigation into Sy.

While detectives James Van Der Zee and Paul Outerbridge discover Sy's obsession, Sy confronts Will and Maya during a rendezvous in their hotel room. Armed with a knife and a camera, Sy forces the lovers to pose naked in sexual positions while he takes pictures. After the confrontation, Sy notices that the police have arrived at the hotel, and escapes through an emergency exit. The exit door trips an alarm, and Van Der Zee pursues Sy while Outerbridge finds Will and Maya physically unharmed but emotionally traumatized. The police apprehend Sy in the parking garage. Upon being arrested, Sy claims, "I just took pictures."

In the police interrogation room, Van Der Zee asks Sy why he terrorized Will and Maya. Sy says that he can tell Van Der Zee is a good father who would never commit adultery or take "disgusting, sick, degrading pictures" of his children (suggesting that Sy's own father exploited him for child pornography), and the affair between Will and Maya sparked his traumatic memory - which Sy had to avenge. Satisfied with his candid testimony, Van Der Zee expresses his appreciation. Sy then asks for the pictures that he took at the hotel. The detective describes the pictures as "evidence", but relents and gives them to Sy, who displays them on the table. They appear to be only shots of objects and furnishings of a hotel room. After he is left alone in the room, Sy imagines himself as being part of a happy family picture of the Yorkins, with Will's arm around a smiling Sy.

####One Night in Lisbon####
Dwight Houston (Fred MacMurray), an American pilot from Texas, meets a British aristocrat in London amid bombing, and gets caught up in a Nazi spy plot in Portugal.  At first Houston is critical of Britain, due to what he perceives to be a condescending attitude on the part of Leonora Perrycoate (Madeleine Carroll); however, he soon realizes in fact that as American he has much in common with them, and that their fight is his fight, remarking poignantly that "It's funny about England and the way Americans feel about you.  It's sort of like being related in a way.  You know the way you feel about relatives.  They do a lot of things that irritate you, but when it comes right down to it, you are related.  You have the same ideas, speak the same language and have the same plans for the future," and he realizes that he "shares with them a common history, heritage, language and political ideology"

####Open Windows####
Nick Chambers wins a contest to meet his favorite actress, Jill Goddard.  Nick, the webmaster of a fansite dedicated to Jill, is crushed when Chord, Jill's manager, informs him that she has not only failed to invite him to the film's publicity event but also canceled the contest.  Chord remotely sends Nick a link to his laptop that opens a live stream.  Chord explains that he has hacked into Jill's cell phone and activated the microphone and camera without her knowledge.  Although uneasy about invading her privacy, Nick goes along with Chord's plans to spy on her.  By eavesdropping on her phone conversations, they learn that she will secretly meet her agent, Tony, with whom she is having an affair, at the same hotel in which Nick is staying.

Chord directs Nick to use preexisting high-end surveillance equipment to spy on Jill and Tony.  As he watches them, Nick is briefly contacted by a trio of hackers who address him as Nevada.  Jill leaves Tony's room.  When Nick's lights spontaneously turn on and Tony can see the camera pointed at his room, Nick panics as Tony leaves his room to investigate.  Chord orders Nick to use a Taser to incapacitate Tony.  Feeling that he has no choice, Nick agrees.  Nick initially refuses to tie up Tony but does so once Chord threatens to stop helping him.  Suspicious of why all this equipment is available in his hotel room, Nick questions who Chord really is; Chord ignores him and guides him out of the hotel by hacking into its security system.

Chord blackmails Nick into further compliance by revealing that the entire contest was a hoax, and Chord now has video proof of Nick's crimes.  Chord forces Nick to follow Jill to her house, and he is contacted once again by the trio of hackers who believe Nick to be a famous hacker.  They offer to help him in his latest hack and Nick recruits them to counteract Chord.  Meanwhile, Chord hacks into Jill's PC when she goes home.  When Nick refuses to send her PC a file, Chord demonstrates that he is capable of sneaking into Jill's house and killing her.

The file turns out to be a live feed of Tony's torture by electric current.  Horrified, Nick attempts to bargain with Chord for Tony's release, but Chord only tortures Tony further.  Chord forces Nick to give commands to Jill through her PC, and Nick demands that she reveal her breasts.  Satisfied with the resulting video, Chord breaks the connection.  Nick frantically attempts to warn Jill but she is kidnapped by Chord.  With the help of the hackers, Nick pursues Chord.  However, once they realize that Chord is actually the master hacker, Nevada, their loyalties are torn.  Although they continue to help him, they warn Nick that Nevada is the best in the world and a veteran of numerous anarchist operations, though none of them have resulted in physical harm to anyone.

The hackers later discover that Chord has killed Nevada and taken his place.  After both Nick and Chord throw off the police, Nick crashes his car and Chord shoots him.  Chord hacks into the entire Internet and virtually every website is replaced with a teaser of Jill's revealing video.  When the site goes live, Chord explains that instead of a sex tape, she will be killed live on the Internet unless her fans immediately close the browser window.  The site's traffic increases dramatically and Chord fakes her death at an abandoned factory.  Jill plays along with Chord and says that she understands the point about society that he is making.  However, when his guard is down, she flees.

Nevada reveals to Chord that he is still alive and has been impersonating Nick the whole time.  The real Nick was safely hidden in Nevada's car trunk, and the whole scenario was an operation designed to flush Chord out.  Nevada and Jill escape to safety in a bunker before explosives blow up the factory, killing Chord in his own trap.  Nevada and Jill discuss what to do next, and she asks to accompany him as he retreats back into the underground hacker movement.

####The Operator####
A telephone operator resolves to takes revenge on a rude and impolite customer.

####Out in Fifty####
Mississippi boy Ray Frye (Scott Leet) accidentally kills a perverted woman from L.A. while making love to her. Now her vengeful husband, an addict cop no less (Mickey Rourke), is waiting to strike when Frye gets out of prison. Frye's problems deepen when, on parole, he boards with the scheming little family of a chintzy car-wash entrepreneur. There is also a poison-dart serial killer on the loose who may or may not be relevant.

####Out of the Blue####
Connor is a young man living in a small coastal New England town trying to rebuild his life following a stint in prison when he meets Marilyn, an alluring older woman whom he finds himself attracted to in which the two of them are soon involved in a romantic affair. Connor soon learns that Marilyn is actually married to an older man with whom she claims she is unhappy with. At one point, Marilyn suggests to Connor to murder her husband so they can be together. Connor wants no part in any murder-for-hire scheme until he is suspected in a number of break-in robberies in town which his parole officer, Jock, wrongfully suspects him of committing, but cannot prove it. Suspecting that Marilyn might be setting him up as a fall guy, but too blinded by his infatuation with her, he agrees to the murder plot.

####Overexposed####
Morrison (Larry Brand) investigates when the colleagues of beautiful soap star Kristin (Catherine Oxenberg) start disappearing. Morrison realizes Kristin herself is being stalked and needs protection from the invisible threat.

####Pacific Blackout####
Inventor and engineer Robert Draper is unjustly found guilty for the murder of his partner.  Just as he's sent to prison, the prison truck crashes in the midst of a civil defense blackout, propelling him into a search for the real killers who framed him.  Czech-American screenwriter Franz Schulz was billed as Francis Spencer for the film.

####The Painted Woman####
After becoming involved in a killing, Kiddo gets on board Boyton's ship. When he learns what happened he dumps her on a South Sea island. Tom Brian marries her, and when Boynton returns he's furious (he wanted to marry her). When Boyton is killed Kiddo is accused of the crime and even Tom thinks she's guilty.

####Panic in the City####
An agent of the National Bureau of Investigation, Dave Pomeroy, investigates the death of a European nuclear scientist and discovers a Communist plot to detonate a nuclear bomb in Los Angeles in order to instigate World War III. Once the bomb is activated and Pomeroy receives a lethal dose of ionizing radiation from it, he sacrifices himself to save the city by flying the bomb out over the Pacific Ocean in a helicopter.

####Passengers####
Psychotherapist Claire Summers counsels five survivors of a recent plane crash: passengers Dean, Norman, Shannon, Eric, and flight attendant Janice. Eric, however, is unusually euphoric after the tragedy, and he asks that Claire meet with him individually rather than in group sessions with the others. She later talks with Mr. Arkin, an airline official, about the survivors' differing recollections of the crash; Dean is sure there was an explosion before the crash, but the others disagree. Arkin claims pilot error was responsible. Eric expresses his attraction to Claire, but she is suspicious when he seems to know personal information about her, such as her fraught relationship with her sister.

When Dean misses a session and a stranger seems to be stalking the survivors, Norman concludes the airline is targeting the surviving passengers to cover up the airline's history of negligent mechanical failures. While Norman originally remembered nothing odd happening before the crash, he tells Claire that he now remembers an engine exploding. Later, Eric displays strange behavior in response to a dog barking outside, and Claire is conflicted between her role as counselor and her growing personal feelings for him. She asks him to stop coming on to her, but Toni, her kindly neighbor, urges her to take a chance with him.

At the following session, Norman is absent, leaving only Janice and Shannon. Arkin warns Claire against feeding the airline coverup theory to the remaining survivors, but she angrily tells him to stay away and later tells her supervisor Perry that she is worried about her missing patients. Claire then visits Eric, rides on his motorcycle, sails on his boat, swims with him, and finally sleeps with him. She also leaves unanswered voice mail messages for her estranged sister, Emma, indicating that she wants to reconcile. She takes flowers to Emma's house, but no one is home. Arkin confronts her as she departs, telling her that he knows she is sleeping with one of her patients. Claire then encounters Norman's stalker, who turns out to be another crash survivor who remembers an explosion. She takes him to see Arkin at the airport and angrily blames the airline for the crash and a cover-up. As Arkin denies the accusations, the survivor suddenly disappears, leaving Claire shaken and bewildered.

Eric returns to the crash site and experiences frightening memories of an exploding engine. Meanwhile, Shannon is the only one at the next session; just before Claire arrives, Shannon has a vision of her dead parents outside. Eric also arrives, and as Claire takes him and Shannon to her apartment, he tells Claire that he recalls an engine blowing up. Claire counsels Shannon about her feelings for her parents, who were killed when she was a child. Eric sees the same dog outside Claire's apartment and recognizes it as a pet that died when he was young. Convinced that he was killed in the crash, he runs out of the apartment and stands in front of an onrushing train, which has no effect on him, then shouts to Claire that she should stay away from him.

Shannon disappears from Claire's apartment, but her neighbor says she left with a man and woman. Claire goes to her supervisor, who is convinced she has latched onto a conspiracy theory, and she angrily accuses him of helping Arkin cover up the truth. At Emma's house, Arkin suddenly appears and again tells Claire that the pilot was responsible for the crash. Arkin departs but leaves his briefcase behind. Claire becomes hysterical after finding a ledger inside listing all the passengers who died in the crash. Claire's name is on the ledger, and Arkin is listed as the pilot.

The next morning Claire finds Eric on his boat. He explains that he withheld telling her that she and the other passengers died in the crash because everyone had to discover it individually. Deceased people and even pets from their pasts (unrecognized by the recently deceased) helped them to understand and accept death. The people Claire spoke to (including her aunt, who was the kindly neighbor, and a schoolteacher, who she thought was her supervisor) were dead friends or relatives. She and Eric sail from the harbor to cross over into the afterlife. A flashback shows Claire and Eric in adjacent seats on the plane, as well as other passengers and crew. During the flight, Claire and Eric develop an attraction. When the engine catches fire and the plane depressurizes, Eric assures her they will be all right and the screen fades to white. The film ends with a landlord letting Emma and her husband into Claire's apartment. Emma finds a note Claire was planning to send to make peace with her.

####Patriots####
An Irish-American girl from Boston spends two hellish weeks in Northern Ireland, after she has been persuaded to help the Irish Republican Army.

####Pendulum####
In Washington, D.C., police captain Frank Matthews's career is on the rise, having just been appointed consultant for a powerful U.S. senator. His domestic life, however, is questionable. He suspects his wife of having an affair with an old flame. One evening, after appearing at a political function in Baltimore, Matthews decides not to return home until the following morning. The next day, he is informed by authorities that his wife has been discovered shot to death while in bed with her lover, who was also killed. Soon, Matthews is made aware that his own colleagues, the police, have made him the prime suspect in the case.

"Pendulum" also features a side-plot involving a death row inmate, Paul Sanderson, convicted of rape and murder, who is set free due to a legal technicality. Sanderson had been originally tracked down and arrested by Matthews, who views these circumstances as a grave injustice. Ironically, now that Captain Matthews is a suspected murderer, he hires Sanderson's lawyer, Woodrow Wilson King, to represent him. For the remainder of the feature, these two storylines intersect until the film reaches its violent conclusion.

####Penthouse North####
Sara Taylor is a photojournalist stationed in Afghanistan. She enters a building, in which she espies a woman crying for help. She raises her camera to take a photo of the woman before realizing that the baby the woman is carrying is actually a  bomb. The bomb explodes, leaving Sara permanently blind.

Having returned to America, where her live-in boyfriend, Ryan, is desperate to marry her. Sara is planning a party and goes out to buy some supplies when she is knocked over by a cyclist. When she gets home Ryan appears to have stepped out - Sara is unable to see his murdered body. When she takes a shower, Ryan's killer is revealed to still be in the house, using his blade to push a towel in Sara's direction when she cannot find one.

Sara discovers Ryan's body when she slips in his blood. The killer makes himself known and ties Sara to her bed, asking for "the diamond" which Ryan stole from him. Sara is shocked by the revelation that Ryan is not the man he made himself out to be. She offers the killer, now known as Chad, the diamond, but then knocks him out and escapes the apartment. She hides in her building's basement where her friend Antonio hears her calls for help. He tries to save her but Chad slits his throat. Sara escapes to the street when she trips into the arms of Robert Hollander, who promises to keep her safe.

They retreat to her building and it is revealed that Chad knows Hollander and they are working together to find the diamonds.  They find a case of hundreds of thousands of dollars hidden behind a canvassed photo that Sara took. Having confirmed that Ryan was a crook, Hollander and Chad renew their efforts, certain that the diamonds are hidden somewhere in the penthouse. Hollander throws Sara's cat over the balcony in a fit of spite before locking Sara up again. She tries to reason with Chad, then turns her attentions to Hollander, desperate to end the torment.

Blake, Sara's sister, comes over with her husband, Danny, for the party Sara was preparing for earlier. Sara gets them to leave with a story that she and Ryan are fighting, and coincidentally Blake, who is heavily pregnant, starts having contractions. Hollander sends Chad to fix him a drink while he takes Sara out to the balcony. Chad discovers the diamonds hidden within the ice cubes and hides them away before offering Hollander his drink. Chad attempts to kill Hollander but is shot by Hollander. With Hollander's attention on Chad, Sara stabs Hollander in the back with a garden shear. As Hollander grapples with Sara, Chad revives and attacks Hollander, who grabs Chad's blade and stabs him to death. Hollander searches for Sara, who has found Hollander's gun. She tries shooting him using her sense of sound, but New Year's Eve fireworks dull her senses, giving her a flashback to the moment she lost her sight in Afghanistan.

Sara manages to shoot Hollander in the arm. With the gun pointed directly at him she starts throwing the diamonds over the balcony, threatening to throw all of them away. When Hollander reacts, she is able to hear him and shoots him in the chest before pushing him off the balcony to his death.

It is revealed that Sara had kept the diamonds in her hand. She re-freezes them in the ice tray, while her cat is seen walking over Hollander's corpse on the ground below.

####The Photographer####
The film begins with Adrian Wilde (Michael Callan) living his life as a photographer. Everything seems normal until he stumbles upon a dead body, and takes a picture of it. This sparks a dark deep fetish Wilde has had since he saw his first dead body washed up at the local watering hole he used to play around as a child. This leads Wilde to spiral into a murderous rampage to sustain his lust for the two things he loves most: murdering unsuspecting attractive women and photography. This leads to a cat and mouse chase between the police, Lt. Luther Jacoby (Harold J. Stone) and Sgt. Sid Collins (Edward Andrews). In the end, Wilde is finally caught as he is about to maim and consume his victim. The two officers are heralded as heroes.

####Placebo Effect####
Aleksander Ivanov is a cab driver from Bosnia who is drawn into a plot to assassinate the Vice President of the United States. Ivanov tries to find who is behind the plot.

####Pressure####
On their way back home, two friends decide to stop at a bar. Nevertheless, one of the friends is seduced by Amber, a local girl. However, the girl and her lover plan to rob him. The lover accidentally shot himself, allowing the friends to escape, but his father is the local sheriff and starts a manhunt to capture the friends.

####Primary Motive####
Andrew Blumenthal (Judd Nelson), a rookie ambitious press secretary targets the crooked opponent of his Boston candidate.

####Psycho III####
In 1982, Norman Bates works at the Bates Motel and lives with the preserved corpse of Emma Spool, a waitress who told him she was his real mother. When Spool remains missing after a month, Norman's ex-boss, Ralph Statler, and local law enforcement grow concerned. Duane Duke, a sleazy musician desperate for money, is offered the job of assistant manager at the motel. Tracy Venable, a journalist from Los Angeles, is working on an article about serial killers being released from custody. Believing that Norman is killing again, Tracy appears at the diner where he works and attempts to talk with him. Norman opens up to her but is distracted when Maureen Coyle, a young, mentally unstable former nun, enters. Maureen resembles his former victim, Marion Crane. Seeing the initials "M.C." on her suitcase, Norman panics and leaves the diner.

"Mother" enters Maureen's bathroom that night, intending to kill her, only to find that she has cut her wrists. The shock of this causes Norman to reassert his personality while a delirious Maureen mistakes "Mother" holding a knife for the Virgin Mary holding a crucifix. Norman brings Maureen to a hospital and offers that she stay as long as she needs to. After she is released, they begin a romantic relationship. That night, Duke picks up a girl named Red at a bar, but after Red makes it clear that she wants more than a fling, Duke rejects her. Red tries calling a cab, but "Mother" shatters the phone booth door and stabs Red to death. The following day, tourists arrive at the motel, planning to watch a football game. Tracy searches Spool's apartment, discovering the motel's phone number written on a magazine cover repeatedly.

Patsy Boyle, the motel's only sober guest, is murdered by "Mother". Norman finds her body and buries her in the motel's ice chest. The next morning, Sheriff Hunt and Deputy Leo appear to investigate Patsy's disappearance. Tracy tells Maureen about Norman's past, causing Maureen to stay with Father Brian, who took care of her at the hospital. Norman finds that Spool's corpse is missing and finds a note stating that she is in Cabin 12. Duke extorts Norman, threatening to turn him into the police for murder unless he is given a large sum of money. In an ensuing fight, Norman beats Duke with his guitar until he loses consciousness. Norman drives his car to the swamp with Duke and Patsy's bodies inside. Duke regains consciousness and attacks Norman, who accidentally drives into the swamp. Norman escapes the car while Duke drowns.

Tracy talks to Statler about Spool and discovers she was working at the diner before Statler purchased it from Harvey Leach. Tracy meets with Leach, a resident at an assisted living facility, and is informed that Spool was also institutionalized for murder. Maureen convinces herself that Norman is her true love and returns to the motel. They share a tender moment at the top of the staircase when "Mother" shouts furiously at Norman, startling him. He loses his grip on Maureen's hands, causing her to fall down the stairs, killing her. Enraged, Norman promises "Mother" that he will get her for this. Tracy enters the house and finds Maureen dead, then sees Norman dressed as "Mother" bearing a knife, but is unable to flee.

Tracy tries reasoning with Norman by explaining his family history: Emma Spool was his aunt and was in love with Norman's father, but he married her sister, Norma. Spool killed Norman's father and kidnapped Norman when he was a child, believing he was the child "she should have had with him". When she was caught, Norman was returned to Norma while Spool was institutionalized. Tracy discovers Spool's corpse in the bedroom. Norman takes off his dress. "Mother" orders him to kill Tracy, but when Norman raises the knife, he attacks "Mother" instead, dismembering Spool's corpse. Sheriff Hunt takes Norman to his squad car. Hunt informs Norman that he'll never get out of the institution again, to which Norman replies: "But I'll be free...I'll finally be free". In the back of the squad car, Norman caresses the severed hand of Emma Spool.

####Public Access####
A clean-cut drifter ends up in a small town called Brewster. Getting wind of the local public-access television cable TV station, the man decides to host his own show called "Our Town", which becomes a focal point for town citizens to call in and voice their problems anonymously. However, things start to get ugly and tensions rise for the show, which begins to elevate the man's signature catchphrase "What's wrong with Brewster?" into an entirely new subject for the people of Brewster, when the town becomes embroiled in a mess it has created, driven by a man whose intentions might be far more sinister than he appears to be.

####Pulse 2: Afterlife####
During a pandemic of mass suicides and mysterious deaths caused by ghosts who spread through technology, Michelle searches for her daughter, Justine. Michelle’s ex-husband Stephen traces her path, discovering evidence that she planned to kill her daughter and herself. While at home, Michelle sees Justine on the road returning to her apartment. Michelle rushes downstairs, but Stephen grabs his daughter and leaves in his truck. Michelle transforms into a ghost and angrily stares at them as they drive away.

Stephen takes Justine up to his cabin and asks about what happened. She explains that her mother has died, dissolving into ash while attempting to kill her. Stephen's girlfriend Marta arrives that night. She sits down and gives a litany of complaints, one of them being that she refuses to lock herself up inside a red taped room. Stephen starts going through the food and Marta gets worried that he might not keep her around. Marta, trying to get Stephen to think she's useful to have around, tries to seduce him. She pulls him to a table, but the moment she sits on it, a laptop sitting on the table turns on. She complains because they're not supposed to have that type of technology, but Stephen says it's not even plugged in. Marta goes to hit the laptop with a golf club, but Stephen stops her. Suddenly they see continuous instant messages to Stephen from Michelle. When even more messages begin to come in, Marta shoves the laptop off the table and into a wall.

Stephen goes to speak with his daughter and she assures him that her mother is dead. While everyone is asleep, Stephen hears a beep indicating a new message and picks up the laptop. Despite the damage it is still working, so he sends an instant message to Michelle, causing her to appear at the cabin. Michelle kills Marta, but Stephen and Justine escape.

They are stopped by a man dressed in red, who commands Stephen at gunpoint to take him to a computer supply store and find a processor for him. With the processor, the man plans to find a solution for the world. Once Stephen completes this, the man gives him red tape and Stephen and Justine keep driving. They stop in the middle of a road, where Stephen covers the car in red tape. He and Justine fall asleep, but Stephen wakes up in the middle of the night to find the passenger-side door open and Justine missing. He manages to get Justine back before she touches her mother's ghost and they race back to the car.

The next day, Stephen peeks through the tape and sees a bus that is going to a refugee camp where wireless computer signals cannot reach. He and Justine get out, and he tells her to run straight to the bus. As they are about to reach it, Michelle appears. Stephen convinces his daughter that she should get on the bus and sacrifices himself to Michelle, saying that if she did not want to be lonely, she should take him and not their daughter. She kisses him then backs off and disappears with a smile. Stephen is relieved and thanks her, but Marta's ghost clings to him and takes his soul. Marta then backs off and Michelle is shown standing there, smiling.

Justine is safely in the bus with other refugees and escapees unscathed.

####Quiet Killer####
When Sara Dobbs (Robertson), the teenage daughter of a wealthy New York City family returns home while feeling sick, nobody suspects a thing. At home, her health deteriorates quickly, resulting in a painful death on the streets before her Manhattan home. In the hospital, it does not take long before Dr. Nora Hart (Jackson) concludes that Sara has died of the Black Death, which has not occurred in centuries. Realizing that the disease is extremely contagious, she tries to push the authorities to warn the New York citizens, but the Mayor is reluctant to cause a widespread panic. Meanwhile, more citizens who have been in direct contact with Sara start to perish. Nora and her new colleague Dr. Jake Prescott (Nordling)—whom she becomes romantically involved with—start a race against the clock to locate and treat all the people who might be infected, while trying to prevent the city from panicking. In the end, Nora is successful in finding everyone who is infected, and treats most of them successfully. Within a week, a pandemic is ended after 22 deaths.

####Rainbow Drive####
Mike Gallagher is one of Los Angeles' top cops, who is acting head of Hollywood's homicide division. But Gallagher is soon wrenched out of his orderly existence into a dirty world of killing and corruption. Gallagher's affair with a married woman leads him to stumble across a vicious scene of multiple murders on L.A. highway Rainbow Drive. Gallagher senses something strange when reinforcements arrive even before he has called them. When his superiors freeze him out of the case, Gallagher begins his own investigation. With the help of mysterious ally Laura Demming, Gallagher draws closer to the truth, and danger moves closer to his partner and mistress. His investigation propels him into a web of drugs and vice, corruption and cover-up - an intricate web that implicates some of the city's most senior figures.

####Raising Cain####
Respected child psychologist Dr. Carter Nix's wife, Jenny, becomes concerned that he is obsessively studying their daughter Amy; he regards her like a scientist tracking the development of his creation. However, Carter himself suffers from multiple personality disorder, as his alternate personalities include violent petty criminal Cain, shy 7-year-old boy Josh, and middle-aged nanny Margo who protects the others at all costs. Carter and Cain are killing young mothers to procure their children, apparently for experiments performed by Carter's father, a child psychologist who lost his license years earlier after performing unethical experiments on children.

Jenny is having an affair with her ex-boyfriend Jack Dante, the widower of a former patient, and she plans to leave Carter for him. When Carter discovers their tryst, Cain takes over and begins leaving subtle clues for the police implicating Jack in the murders. Next, he attempts to kill Jenny by suffocating her and submerging her car in a lake. She escapes, however, and confronts Carter at home. Unable to find Amy, Jenny demands Carter tell her where she is. Carter replies that she is with his father - only for an incredulous Jenny to reply that his father has been dead for years.

The police contact Dr. Lynn Waldheim, who co-wrote a book with Nix Sr. called "Raising Cain", about a boy with multiple personality disorder. Nix Sr. had extensive detailed knowledge of Cain's tortured childhood, including taped recordings of their sessions. However, Waldheim was never allowed to meet Cain. She eventually discovered the truth: Nix Sr. dispassionately put his own son through years of severe child abuse to gain firsthand accounts of his traumatic psychological development and study the emerging personalities. Horrified, Waldheim quit the project. Nix Sr. then disappeared, leaving behind a suicide note. After the police make the connection, Carter is apprehended for attempted murder. Waldheim is sent in alone to interrogate him.

During interrogation, Margo and Josh act and speak for Carter. Josh recites a rhyme and vanishes, and Margo assumes control, stonewalling Waldheim from any further questioning. Eventually, Carter and Cain break from their confines and pounce upon Dr. Waldheim, knocking her unconscious and leaving the building disguised as her. The police soon find Waldheim, who begs them to arrest Carter before he harms Amy.

Jenny follows a woman who she thinks is Waldheim to a motel, but it is actually Carter/Cain. She follows Carter/Cain, who is now Margo, into an elevator. When it opens, she sees Nix Sr. holding Amy hostage. While Jenny begs for Nix Sr. to give back her daughter, Carter, Cain and Margo stab "their" father from behind. Jack arrives with the police, and Carter and his personalities disappear.

Later on, Jenny takes Amy to a park and explains to her friend Sarah that Nix Sr. faked his own death and established a new identity and a clandestine research facility in Norway. He had been using Carter and his multiples to procure the children so he would have an adequate control group to study the development of MPD.

Amy runs off into the woods, calling for her father. Jenny follows her and finds Amy, who says her father has gone away. When Jenny bends down to pick Amy up, Carter appears behind her in a wig and a dress; Margo is now in control.

####Raw Nerve####
A series of grotesque murders plagues the city of Mobile, Alabama where an unknown serial killer is killing women with a pump-action shotgun. A young race car driver, named Jimmy Clayton (Ted Prior), goes to the police where he talks with Lt. Detective Bruce Ellis (Jan-Michael Vincent) and his superior Captain Gavin (Glenn Ford) claiming that he has been having visions about the killer. Unfortunately, the police do not take him seriously, and Jimmy gets locked up as the suspect. A reporter named Gloria Freedman (Sandahl Bergman), who happens to be Ellis's ex-wife, falls in love with Jimmy and sets out prove his innocence and find the real killer.

Meanwhile, a rogue biker named Blake Garrett (Tex Cobb) learns about the murders and that Jimmy may be a suspect. He follows and accosts Gloria; telling her to stay away from Jimmy. Then Blake kidnaps Jimmy's younger sister Gina (Traci Lords) and attempts to leave the country with her, claiming that he is "protecting her". When Lt. Ellis begins to believe Jimmy's claims of innocence, he has Jimmy released and has him followed to find Blake who takes Gina to a local airport where he is attempting to leave the country with her. Thinking that Blake is the serial killer, the police chase him through the airport and in his pickup truck through the city where they corner him on a top ledge of a parking garage. When Jimmy attempts to talk to Blake, he releases Gina but drives his truck off the ledge and kills himself. When Captain Gavin finds a shotgun in Blake's truck which forensic tests prove it to be the murder weapon, the case of the "shotgun slayings" is closed. Or is it?

In the final scene, Gloria goes to Jimmy's house one evening for them go out on their first date when Jimmy begins acting strange toward her and suddenly attempts to kill her. It is revealed here that Jimmy really is the killer all along and that he committed the murders under a split-personality. Jimmy's alter ego, who is named 'Billy', murdered his and Gina's parents years earlier after they found out that Jimmy has dissociative identity disorder resulting from physical abuse by both his mother and father. Blake knew the whole time about Jimmy's D.I.D. and protected him out of blind loyalty. When Jimmy apparently discovered the truth, 'Billy' completely took over and he attempts to kill Gloria (A very similar plot twist and setting is used several years later in the 2005 thriller "Hide and Seek".) After a chase through the house, just when Gloria is about to be killed, Lt. Ellis runs in and saves her by shooting Billy/Jimmy dead.

####Rebirth####
A white-collar suburban father Kyle (Fran Kranz) is surprised at his office by long-lost college buddy Zack (Adam Goldberg). Zack is as wild and crazy as ever, brimming with excitement about the self-actualization program he's just finished called Rebirth. He talks Kyle into going on a weekend-long Rebirth retreat, handing over his keys, wallet, and phone. Thus begins his journey down a bizarre rabbit hole of psychodrama, seduction, and violence.

####Red####
Avery "Ave" Ludlow, a storekeeper, has a dog named Red, a gift for his 50th birthday from his late wife, Mary. One day, fishing at a lake with Red by his side, three boys come across his path: brothers Danny and Harold McCormack, and their friend Pete Doust. Danny threatens Ave with a shotgun and demands money. When Avery says he has only $30, Danny becomes furious and kills Red. He laughs and makes a joke about it as he leaves with the other boys.

Ave visits a gun store, where the clerk identifies Danny as the shotgun purchaser based on a description. Ave visits Danny's father, Michael, and tells his story. Michael calls his sons, and asks them if they shot Red. They deny it, and Michael tells Ave to leave.

Ave decides to ask for a prosecution and talks to his lawyer, Sam Berry. Sam discourages him by saying that the penalty is low, but Ave persists. Sam arranges a meeting between Ave and a reporter named Carrie. Carrie tells him that publicity would prompt official action. Ave agrees and gives a human-interest television interview to Carrie. However, the story fails to get attention, and Carrie is transferred to another story. Ave switches to pursuing a civil lawsuit for damages. A rock with a threatening message is thrown through his window.

Carrie asks Ave about his family; he tells her his elder son was mendacious, and was thrown out of the Navy due to mental illness. One day, he returned home and asked his mother for money. She refused, and he assaulted her. Thinking he had killed her, he then set fire to his brother and mother with kerosene. The brother died while Mary survived for five days in a coma.

Ave begins following the boys. Harold sees Ave watching them and, remorseful, apologizes. Ave says he would like Danny to do likewise. One day, Danny is playing baseball with friends and becomes frustrated after striking out, leaving the game in anger. Ave follows him and parks behind his car. Danny confronts him and, needled by Ave, tries to hit him with his bat. Ave avoids the blow and knocks Danny down; Ave points out that, as Danny attacked in daylight and with witnesses, he should watch his temper, saying the beating Ave has given him is one his father should have given. Shortly afterwards, Ave's store is burned down. Ave is disappointed to hear that no evidence implicates the McCormacks.

Ave exhumes Red and takes him to the McCormacks' house, confronting them with it. Michael and Danny brandish pistols, with the father demanding he leave. Ave refuses, at which Danny becomes furious, stepping forward and aiming at Ave. Ave deflects Danny's arm as he fires, and the shot hits Ave's ear. Ave wrestles Danny's gun from him, throws him to the ground, and holds him hostage. Telling Michael to lower his gun, Ave forces Danny to drive to the sheriff, where he intends to have Danny charged with attempted manslaughter. Michael follows Ave and rams his truck off the road. The McCormacks return home, thinking Ave is dead. Night falls, during which Ave regains consciousness and sees an Australian Cattle Dog that shows him Danny's revolver, left in the wreckage. He takes it and returns to the McCormack house. Finding a shaken Harold smoking on the porch, he asks to be led to where Red's body was dumped. Michael, Danny, and Pete follow and find them. Michael and Danny are again armed; Harold tells them to stand down, but Danny shoots Ave in the belly with the shotgun. Ave returns fire, wounding both Danny and Michael. As they fall, they fire back: in the crossfire, Harold and Pete are fatally shot. Ave approaches the injured Danny and Michael, telling the father that one of them killed Harold.

As he recuperates, Ave reads a newspaper with Carrie's account of his story. Carrie visits and gives him a dog. Ave initially declines, reminding her that two boys were killed because he wanted revenge; she leaves him with the dog. Despite his protests, Ave soon accepts him.

####Red Rock West####
Michael Williams is a drifter living out of his car after being discharged from the Marine Corps. A job on an oilfield falls through due to his unwillingness to conceal a war injury on his job application, so Michael wanders into rural Red Rock, Wyoming, looking for other work. A local bar owner named Wayne mistakes him for a hitman, "Lyle from Dallas", whom Wayne has hired to kill his wife. Wayne offers him a stack of cash—"half now, half later"—and Michael plays along by taking the money.

Michael visits Wayne's wife, Suzanne, and instead of killing her, he attempts to warn her that her life is in danger. She offers him more money to kill Wayne. Michael tries to leave town but a car accident leads him to encounter the local sheriff, who turns out to be Wayne. Michael manages to escape from Wayne but runs into the real Lyle from Dallas. Lyle and Wayne quickly figure out what has transpired, while Michael desperately tries to warn Suzanne before Lyle finds her.

The next morning, when Lyle comes to get money from Wayne, he kidnaps both Suzanne and Michael, who are trying to retrieve hidden cash from Wayne's office. Wayne and Suzanne are revealed to be wanted for embezzlement and Wayne is arrested by his own deputies. Lyle returns with Michael and Suzanne hostage and gets Wayne out of jail to retrieve their stash of money. At a remote graveyard, Wayne pulls a gun from the case of money and holds Lyle at gunpoint before Lyle throws a knife into Wayne's neck. Michael and Lyle fight, with Lyle ending up being impaled on a grave marker. When Lyle rises to attack Michael, Suzanne shoots him dead.

Michael and Suzanne get onto a nearby train, but when Suzanne tries to betray Michael, he throws much of the money out of the speeding train and then throws Suzanne off to be arrested by the police accompanied by a wounded Wayne. He remarks finally, "Adios, Red Rock". Michael has stored away some of the cash for himself and keeps riding the train into a new town.

####The Red Sea Diving Resort####
Kebede Bimro, an Ethiopian Jew loosely based on Ferede Aklum, works with the Israeli Mossad agent Ari Levinson to evacuate Jewish-Ethiopian refugees to Israel. Ari realizes that his ability to operate in Ethiopia would be improved if he had a cover activity that would give him a reason for having a building and vehicles. He proposes to Israeli intelligence officer Ethan Levin a plan that would allow him to evacuate significantly more refugees: rent the Red Sea Diving Resort, an abandoned Sudanese coastal hotel, and run it as a front to facilitate moving refugees out of the country. The unorthodox plan is reluctantly approved, and Ari recruits his former Mossad colleagues Rachel Reiter, Jake Wolf, Max Rose, and Sammy Navon, to assist him.

Shortly after the team's arrival in Sudan, the brochures they had printed inspire actual tourists to begin arriving at the resort. Although hosting guests was not originally part of the plan, Levinson realizes the tourists will provide cover for the team's operations, so the team runs the resort as a legitimate business while simultaneously evacuating refugees to a waiting Israeli ship off the coast. The plan is initially successful, and multiple extraction operations are carried out, but the Sudanese Colonel Abdel Ahmed learns of Bimro after interrogating and then killing a group of refugees. Ahmed visits the resort to investigate but does not discover the refugee operation.

One night, Ari and Sammy are arrested after an evacuation mission narrowly escapes from Sudanese soldiers. They are released and return to the resort to find Levin awaiting them; he tells the group the mission has been compromised and that it is canceled.

Ahmed again visits the resort, and Rachel is forced to kill one of his men after the soldier discovers a group of refugees hiding there. To evacuate them, Ari decides to perform a final refugee extraction by cargo plane with assistance from Walton Bowen, a CIA officer. Ari and his team transport the refugees to an abandoned British airfield. The team and Bimro narrowly escape Ahmed and extract themselves and the refugees.

####Rent-A-Pal####
David Brower is a middle-aged bachelor in 1990 who is looking for a romantic partner while also caring for his irritable dementia-ridden mother Lucille. His father, Frank, an accomplished jazz musician, committed suicide ten years prior. He has been utilizing Video Rendezvous, a video dating service, for six months to no avail. After going to one of their locations to record an updated tape, David stumbles across another tape in their bargain bin titled "Rent-A-Pal," which he purchases after it intrigues him. Watching the tape, he finds that Rent-A-Pal features its host, Andy, who talks to the viewer and leaves in pauses to allow the viewer to simulate a conversation, though is quickly disillusioned and shuts it off.

The next morning, David is contacted by Video Rendezvous, who says that a woman, Lisa, wanted to match with him after watching his latest tape. When he goes to retrieve her tape, the receptionist informs him that she has already found another match, and when he watches her tape, he learns that she likes jazz and is a professional caregiver, depressing him further. He decides to continue watching Rent-A-Pal, where David confides in Andy that Lucille, like Andy's mother, was physically abusive. David also talks about his failures to find a partner, and when Andy shares a story about a girl who lied to avoid going to a dance with him in high school, he convinces David to make him his friend.

David continuously watches the tape, virtually talking, drinking, and playing cards with Andy. During one viewing, Andy presses David for an embarrassing story, in which David talks about how bullies in middle school left sexually explicit and threatening notes in David's name in the locker of a girl he liked which resulted in his suspension, the ordeal giving David trust issues. Andy begins to share an embarrassing story of his own from his college days, which begins to get increasingly more detailed and sexually charged as he goes on, prompting David to begin masturbating to it, even as Andy inexplicably begins using David's name instead of his own as he recounts the story. Lucille catches David in the act, but mistakes him for her late husband. As she gets more belligerent, David, in his anger, tells her that her husband is dead. After this causes her to break down, he recants and says that Frank is still alive and well to calm her down.

One day, David receives another call from Video Rendezvous, who informs him that Lisa's previous match didn't work out and that she's once again interested in him. The two go on a date at a roller rink/arcade, where the two talk and connect about their experience in caregiving. The date goes successfully, and Lisa gives David her number and sets up another date for the following evening. David tells Andy about it, but Andy is strangely angered by this, accusing David of casting him aside and forgetting about a previously planned time to play cards, causing David to cancel his date the following morning, using his mom as an excuse.

David spends the evening interacting with Andy, and when he goes upstairs for a drink, he discovers that Lucille has wandered out of the home. Frantic and unable to find her, David considers calling 911, but calls Lisa for help, and with her assistance, he locates her and returns her home. David takes the opportunity to show her his room and share his father's music with her. They begin to get intimate on the couch, during which David sits on the remote and turns Rent-A-Pal on. As Andy seems to judgingly watch David make out with Lisa, David prematurely ejaculates when Lisa touches his leg and Andy laughs hysterically, alerting Lisa. When Lisa questions David about the tape, he gets angry and defensive, prompting her to leave.

The next morning, as David cleans the house, he finds a picture in his mother's room featuring him and Andy, seemingly taken during the course of the tape. He then finds his Rent-A-Pal tape missing, only to discover Lucille cutting the tape's film in the kitchen, mistaking it for Scotch tape. Furious, David strikes Lucille across the face with the tape, knocking her to the ground, before going to Video Rendezvous and aggressively acquiring another Rent-A-Pal tape. After re-watching it, he takes Lucille, still on the kitchen floor, to the top of the basement stairwell. After she addresses him as David, he coldly whispers to her that she's the reason that Frank killed himself before pushing her down, grievously injuring her. Soon, all the TVs in the house begin to play Rent-A-Pal as Andy expresses his excitement to be David's friend.

Lisa arrives at David's house, wanting to make amends for the previous night and bring over dinner, but she discovers Lucille's body. David confronts her, speaking like Andy as he attempts to keep her from calling the police before trying to murder her. Lisa manages to free herself and stabs David in the chest with a pair of scissors before fleeing and shouting for help. David drags himself into the basement and fast-forwards the Rent-A-Pal tape to the end in which Andy forlornly says goodbye to the viewer before he bleeds out.

####Reported Missing!####
The story follows a gang that sabotages airplanes, making them crash and then robbing the victims.

####Ride####
Struggling actor James (Jessie Usher) pays his bills by driving people around Los Angeles for a ride-sharing service. James' shift starts out like any other, until he hits it off with a beautiful woman named Jessica (Bella Thorne) whom he picks up. He drops her off at a local place to which she invites him inside for a drink. He refuses as he already has his next fare. At his next pick-up destination, James meets the fast-talking Bruno (Will Brill), who has just suffered from a recent break-up with his girlfriend. He convinces James to invite Jessica along for a wild night out. They then head back to the club to find her but whilst James and Jessica talk inside, things take a shocking turn and Bruno drives off with the car to a random location. There he adjusts the doors and turns on the child locks. He heads back to pick up the two and they head off toward their destination.

After a few fun moments, Bruno suggests they rob a liquor store and shock them when he's armed with a gun. He has a twisted idea of fun and initiates a terrifying, white-knuckle ride that quickly spirals out of control. He instructs James to shoot the store clerk and steal a bottle of alcohol threatening to murder Jessica if he doesn't follow through. James follows through and shoots the clerk in the process. They head to the highway and drink the alcohol. Bruno instructs Jessica to drive, she switches the child lock off beforehand and attempts to escape with James but he tries to stall Bruno. Jessica tries to catch a bus passing by but heads back to the vehicle when she sees Bruno threatening to shoot James. She is instructed to drive to the local pharmacy to get some things for James because during the struggle, Bruno dislocated James' shoulder.

Whilst in the store, she steals the required items and sees the breaking news on TV which states that "Bruno Anthony" was a club owner that was murdered. To her shock the "Bruno" that they know is using  fake identity. In the vehicle, the fake Bruno sedates James and pops his shoulder back into place. They head to a local drive thru and he gets them all a meal. It's finally James' turn to drive with Jessica in the front seat, they head to the fake Bruno's ex girlfriend's house. James crashes the vehicle in the process and escapes with Jessica and hide in a pool where they kiss. However they are eventually caught again. They all sit in the hot tub which was their agenda from the beginning when they planned their "wild night out". Jessica mentions that the fake Bruno isn't really Bruno Anthony and that the original is survived by his girlfriend who was in fact his ex girlfriend. She states that he was indeed suffering from a break-up but his had occurred a long time ago. In the midst of this James beats the fake Bruno with the alcohol bottle and takes his gun. He aims the gun at the fake Bruno's chest but leaves him to suffer. He and Jessica walk away, leaving the fake Bruno alone.

Unknown to James, the fake Bruno still has his phone and accepts a new ride request. He phones the passenger and addresses himself as "James" which indicates that another terrifying, white-knuckle ride is about to take place as the film ends.

####Right at Your Door####
Brad (Rory Cochrane), an out-of-work musician, is home by himself one morning while his wife, Lexi (Mary McCormack), is at work. He hears on the radio that several suspected dirty bombs have been detonated across Los Angeles, and sees large amounts of smoke rising from the city. Brad tries to contact Lexi through her cell phone, but only receives a busy signal, and when he tries to drive out to find her, he discovers that all roads now have police blockades, forcing him to return home.

Once home, Brad sees Alvaro (Tony Perez), in the house. Alvaro asks Brad if he can stay with him as there is no one at the neighbor's house where he was working. Over the radio, they hear that survivors of the blasts are being quarantined due to the bombs' deadly toxins, and that the authorities advise people to seal up their homes before the toxins reach them. Brad and Alvaro then proceed to seal up the house with duct tape and plastic. As it becomes increasingly obvious that Lexi might not come home, he takes some of Lexi's clothes and leaves them outside the back door with some food and water.

Lexi arrives home, covered in dust from the explosions, causing Brad to refuse to let her in. Lexi loses her temper and throws her cell phone at one of the door panes, breaking it. Brad and Alvaro quickly seal the breakage and manage to calm Lexi down, before then sealing off the main bedroom from the rest of the house so that Lexi can get into it. Lexi receives a call from her mother, who realizes that she was near the explosion and is probably infected, but Lexi refuses to believe that there is any danger. Alvaro decides to leave the house, saying he needs to be with his wife. Brad tries to convince him to stay, but Alvaro leaves anyway and is seen slowly walking away through a downpour of toxic ash.

Lexi hears a noise from the back and alerts Brad. A masked man appears, who introduces himself as Rick (Jon Huertas). He tells Lexi that there is a ship on the coast that has medical supplies and is helping people. Lexi and Rick leave for help, and Brad hears newscasts on the radio that elaborate on the unknown viral strain, saying it is a hybrid which attacks the respiratory system. That same night Brad is visited by Corporal Marshall (Max Kasch) and his men. He asks Brad several questions, such as how well his house has been sealed, who else is currently or recently been there, and if there has been any contact between him and anyone on the outside. Brad mentions the phone that Lexi threw the door window and the Corporal demands a sample of the dust off the phone. He tells Brad that he will soon be back with the results and that his wife under no circumstances should be let into the house.

Lexi returns home the next day without Rick, and sees a red tag placed outside the house. She calls her brother, Jason, (Will McCormack) so that she can have someone to talk to due to her mother being frantic with worry. The next couple of hours are spent with Brad and Lexi on their respective sides of the door, who talk about what they will do assuming they survive. Suddenly, soldiers appear and grab Lexi, and prevent Brad from coming outside. One soldier manages to calm Brad down and explains that the virus has been discovered not to thrive in places with large quantities of fresh air, meaning that the number of fatalities from the attack has actually been minimal.

Unfortunately, because Lexi unwittingly introduced a trace amount of the virus into the house when she broke a window, Brad's sealing off the house has created the perfect environment for it to thrive, meaning that he has been lethally exposed. The soldiers prepare to fill the house with powerful fumigation chemicals in order to eliminate any trace of the virus; Lexi protests that Brad is still inside, but is told that Brad will soon be dead no matter what they do. The house is then filled with the chemicals, killing Brad. Lexi is later seen sitting in an ambulance, being attended to by a nurse. The film ends with Lexi in too much shock to say anything, her cell phone ringing.

####Rites of Passage####
Nathan (Ryan Donowho), a studious anthropology student, decries his position in a society that fails to provide a ceremony to mark his transition into manhood. Professor Nash (Stephen Dorff), an unethical teacher who openly pursues sexual liaisons with his female students, is intrigued when Nathan tells him his family's unoccupied but functional ranch is the site of an ancient Indian burial ground. Nathan convinces Professor Nash to bring the class out to the ranch, where the plan is to hold a spiritual ceremony in a sweat lodge built over the burial site. Encouraged by Nash's enthusiastic agreement to the idea, Nathan guides his stressed, party-going classmates to the ranch. There they meet his brother, Benny (Wes Bentley), who is in a psychotic spiral of drug addiction and guilt. A crystal meth cook at the ranch, Delgado (Christian Slater), a man with a grudge who has an uneasy friendship with the brother, kills two of the students after he and the brother are insulted. Delgado then begins hunting the rest of the group. During his rampage, Delgado hallucinates that a stuffed monkey named Pancho that clings to his shotgun talks and makes futile attempts to reason with his apparently absent sense of morality.

####Rolling Thunder####
In 1973, U.S. Air Force Major Charles Rane returns home to San Antonio with U.S. Army Master sergeant Johnny Vohden and two other soldiers, having spent seven years as a POW in Hanoi. He finds a home very different from the one he left: his son Mark no longer remembers him, and his wife Janet is affianced to local policeman Cliff Nichols despite still having feelings for Rane. Stoically accepting this, Rane focuses his energies on building a fatherly relationship with Mark, but privately self-imposes the same institutionalized regime he maintained while in captivity. At a grand homecoming ceremony, Rane is presented with a Cadillac and 2,555 silver dollars – one for every day he was captive, plus one for luck – by Linda Forchet, a "Texan belle" who wore his ID bracelet every day he was in Vietnam. Linda later makes advances toward him, but Rane has difficulty returning her affections.

When Rane returns home one day, four border outlaws are waiting for him: "The Texan", "Automatic Slim", "T-Bird" and "Melio". Having seen a report about his homecoming ceremony on television, they torture Rane for his silver dollars. Rane is unresponsive, having flashbacks to his torture in Hanoi. The gang resorts to shoving Rane's hand down a garbage disposal, mangling it. Upon their return home, Janet and Mark are immediately taken hostage. After Mark surrenders the dollars in an effort to save his father's life, the gang shoots the family and leaves them for dead; Rane survives, but his wife and son do not.

Rane recuperates in hospital, where Linda and Vohden visit him. Uncertain about what to do with his life, Vohden has signed on for another ten years in the Airborne Division. Rane withholds the identities of his attackers from Cliff and prepares to take revenge. Upon discharge, he saws down the double-barrelled shotgun Mark and Cliff had given to him as a present, and sharpens the prosthetic hook which has replaced his right hand. Before Rane leaves for Mexico, Linda agrees to accompany him, unaware of his true intentions. He sends her into a seedy Mexican bar to look for "Fat Ed". She is taken into a backroom where Lopez, a sleazy lowlife, immediately harasses her; Rane rescues her while extracting some information. Realizing Rane's scheme, Linda begrudgingly continues to help. In a bar in a nearby town, they find Automatic Slim. A vicious fight ensues; Rane escapes only by wounding Automatic Slim in the crotch with his hook hand.

Meanwhile, Cliff discovers Rane's plan after finding the shotgun's sawn-off barrel. Using his police contacts to trace Rane's car, he travels to the town where Rane encountered Lopez. He is led to Lopez, and they scuffle. After Lopez leads Cliff on a foot-chase through a stockyard into an abandoned house, a gunfight follows. Cliff kills Lopez and two other attackers before Automatic Slim sneaks up from behind and shoots him dead.

Linda and Rane grow close while on the road; Linda describes her tomboy past, and Rane talks about the things he liked before the war. In a motel in El Paso, the pair share a moment of intimacy, during which Linda tries to talk Rane out of revenge one last time. He leaves a sleeping Linda behind in the motel with a sizable sum of money, and despite her earlier insistence that she would call the police, she cannot bring herself to do so.

After staking out the killers as they visit a whorehouse in Juárez, Rane, in full uniform, visits Vohden at his El Paso home, finding him to be emotionally distant from his family. Upon Rane's informing him of the plan, Vohden immediately gets into uniform and is ready to go, asking no questions. They return to the brothel, where Vohden picks up a prostitute. Once they are upstairs, Rane sneaks in via the fire escape. He signals to Vohden, kicking off a bloody shootout in which the Texan, T-Bird, Melio and several other men are shot dead before the final standoff between Rane and Automatic Slim. Rane kills him, then emotionlessly shoots him several times. Bloodied and wounded, Rane and Vohden, supporting each other, stagger out of the whorehouse.

####Rondo####
A veteran gets involved in a world of sex, crime, and murder when he's given a special and mysterious drug.

####Sacrifice####
Tyler Pierce, a convicted bank robber who just recently escaped the prison, joins with a former call girl to investigate the murder of his daughter. They soon discover that they are dealing with a serial killer.

####The Sadist####
Three high school teachers, Ed (Richard Alden), Doris (Helen Hovey), and Carl (Don Russell), are driving through California's Antelope Valley on their way to a Dodgers game in Los Angeles. The group’s Chevrolet Bel Air has some trouble and they are forced to pull off to a gas station/junkyard on the side of the road. After examining the vehicle Ed concludes that the fuel pump will need to be replaced. Doris and Carl search the junkyard looking for the owner, but they cannot find him.

In the residence Carl finds a warm meal with a table set for four, but oddly enough nobody is in the house. The three realize this is very peculiar and start to seriously worry about their situation. At this point Charlie Tibbs, (Arch Hall, Jr.) a rather large young man wielding a Colt .45, and his semi-mute teenage girlfriend Judy (Marilyn Manning) show up. Charlie and Judy have spent the past several days heading west from Arizona, leaving a trail of corpses behind them. Law enforcement is on the hunt for them, but Charlie has managed to stay a step ahead by changing vehicles frequently and then killing the people who offer their help.

Charlie demands that Ed finish repairing the car and informs him that he and Judy will be stealing the Bel Air and taking off when Ed is done. Charlie threatens that if the three don't cooperate "it'll be the end of them." During the next hour, Charlie and his girlfriend verbally and physically torment Ed, Doris, and Carl; Doris calls Charlie an inhuman monster, and he rips her dress and smacks her, then forces Carl to kneel in the sand and plead for his life until Charlie finishes a soda, after which he shoots Carl in the head.

Ed begins to try to work out how many shots Charlie has left in the gun, and asks Charlie a lot of questions about the people he's killed on the way to their current location. Charlie reveals he has two reloads left, and reloads the gun while taunting Ed gleefully. Doris hears the hum of a motor and thinks the police are coming, and Charlie becomes paranoid. He makes Ed hide in the trunk of a car while Judy holds Doris at knifepoint. Two police bikes pull in. After a tense few moments, Doris screams for help while Ed bangs on the lid of the trunk, but to no avail; Charlie has shot both cops dead.

Charlie continues to try and force Ed to fix the car; Ed formulates a plan to run Charlie over with the car. Charlie switches on the radio, and he and Judy begin to kiss as the music switches to updates from the baseball game the teachers were on their way to. Doris gets in the car to try to run it, but Ed's plan to run over Charlie backfires when Doris can't muster the courage to step on the gas pedal. Charlie continues to coerce Ed into fixing the car, then orders him to put gasoline in the carburetor. Ed sprays gasoline in Charlie's eyes, then flees, and Charlie's damaged vision causes him to shoot and kill Judy. After mourning Judy's death and screaming like an animal, he vows to murder Ed and Doris.

Doris and Ed are able to evade Charlie until Doris screams when she discovers two dead bodies of the junkyard owners next to her where she is hiding. As Charlie shoots at her while she flees, Ed approaches with a heavy tool to try to knock him out. They pursue each other until Charlie corners Ed and kills him with one of the cops' guns, as his own has run out of bullets. Charlie steals the car Ed had been working on and drives after Doris as she runs. However, the car stalls repeatedly in the sand, and the baseball game begins playing on the radio again as Charlie abandons the car and runs after Doris with a knife.

Doris spots a stone cottage in the distance and runs inside to hide. However, she soon sees Charlie approach, and runs out again. She ducks behind the walls of an unfinished house nearby, where she is discovered again by Charlie, but as she flees once more, Charlie falls into a pit of rattlesnakes, where he is killed. The film concludes with a traumatized Doris listening to the end of the baseball game before turning and wandering up the trail into the desert.

####Safer at Home####
Set in the fall of 2022, after the second and third strains of COVID-19 have extended the COVID-19 pandemic death toll to over 31 million in the United States, mass chaos in Los Angeles has turned the city into a police state. Three sets of couplessndBen and Liam in New York City, Evan and Jen in West Hollywood, and Oliver and Mia in Los Angeles' Venice neighborhoodsndare joined by friend Harper in Austin, Texas, on a four way online birthday party for Evan via Zoom. The group agrees to take a designer drug that Oliver has had delivered to each home. After taking the pill, during a brief verbal argument, Jen falls backward, hits her head and appears to be dead.

As the drugs take a firm hold on the friends, their decision making skills are severely hampered. Fearing that the authorities will think Evan killed her (they themselves are unsure, as none were paying attention to their screens when Jen tripped), the friends help Evan run when a neighbor calls the police. As Oliver drives cross town to Evan, Harper shares that Jen had secretly told her she was pregnant, and planned to tell Evan after the party. Evan reaches his own car and heads for Oliver's, and the group is stunned to see how the pandemic has caused the conditions to deteriorate on the streets of Los Angeles, including military roadblocks.

With Evan having broken the strict curfew, the police escalate a search for him. When the police search Oliver's house, Evan leaves in Oliver's car. Mia convinces Oliver that she should contact her abusive ex-boyfriend, who is a top criminal lawyer. He advises Evan to drive to the Hollywood police station and wait for Danny to arrive, and to say nothing until he gets there. However, he is pulled over by the police before he arrives. Unable to think clearly, and ignoring the advice of Danny and all his friends, Evan disobeys the police orders and gets out of the car, raising his hands with his Zoom enabled phone, leading to Evan being shot.

As Evan lays dying on the street, the feed from Evan and Jen's house shows her regain consciousness and sit up. She and Evan speak of the baby and their love for each other. Evan dies, witnessed by all the friends. Jen screams in agony, as the news radio show in Oliver's car relays that Evan's death is dwarfed by the 2 million Covid deaths that day, bringing the death toll to 253 million, with the United Kingdom becoming the seventh major superpower to cease to exist as a coherent nation.

####Safety Last!####
The film opens in 1922, with Harold Lloyd (the character has the same name as the actor) behind bars. His mother and his girlfriend, Mildred, are consoling him as a somber official and priest show up. The three of them walk toward what looks like a noose. It then becomes obvious they are at a train station and the "noose" is actually a trackside pickup hoop used by train crews to receive orders without stopping, and the bars are merely the ticket barrier. He promises to send for his girlfriend so they can get married once he has "made good" in the big city. Then he is off.

He gets a job as a salesclerk at the De Vore Department Store, where he has to pull various stunts to get out of trouble with the picky and arrogantly self-important head floorwalker, Mr. Stubbs. He shares a rented room with his pal "Limpy" Bill, a construction worker.

When Harold finishes his shift, he sees an old friend from his hometown who is now a policeman walking the beat. After he leaves, Bill shows up. Bragging to Bill about his supposed influence with the police department, he persuades Bill to knock the policeman backwards over him while the man is using a callbox. When Bill does so, he knocks over the wrong policeman. To escape, he climbs up the façade of a building. The policeman tries to follow, but cannot get past the first floor; in frustration, he shouts at Bill, "You'll do time for this! The first time I lay eyes on you again, I'll pinch you!"

Meanwhile, Harold has been hiding his lack of success by sending his girlfriend expensive presents he cannot really afford. She mistakenly thinks he is successful enough to support a family and, with his mother's encouragement, takes a train to join him. In his embarrassment, he has to pretend to be the general manager, even succeeding in impersonating him to get back at Stubbs. While going to retrieve her purse (which Mildred left in the manager's office), he overhears the real general manager say he would give $1,000 to anyone who could attract people to the store. He remembers Bill's talent and pitches the idea of having a man climb the "12-story Bolton building", which De Vore's occupies. He gets Bill to agree to do it by offering him $500. The stunt is highly publicized and a large crowd gathers the next day.

When a drunkard shows "The Law" (the policeman who was pushed over) a newspaper story about the event, the lawman suspects Bill is going to be the climber. He waits at the starting point despite Harold's frantic efforts to get him to leave. Finally, unable to wait any longer, Bill suggests Harold climb the first story himself and then switch his hat and coat with Bill, who will continue on from there. After Harold starts up, the policeman spots Bill and chases him into the building. Every time Harold tries to switch places with Bill, the policeman appears and chases Bill away. Each time, Bill tells his friend he will meet him on the next floor up. Eventually, Harold reaches the top, despite his troubles with a clock and some hungry pigeons, and kisses his girl. While they walk away, Harold accidentally steps in a tar pit and loses his boots and socks.

####Salt####
Randal (Bradford Tatum) abuses his wife Phoebe (Alexandra Wilson). She starts an affair with his sister, and together they plot revenge on him.

####Salt and Fire####
Three scientists (Dr. Laura Sommerfield, Dr. Fabio Cavani, and Dr. Arnold Meir) are sent to South America as part of a U.N. investigation into an ecological disaster of Salar de Uyuni. In the past, two rivers had been diverted for irrigation, but the effort failed, and the result was an ever growing toxic salt flat.

Upon landing, all three are kidnapped by the man who had become CEO (played by Michael Shannon) of the large international consortium held responsible for the ecological disaster. He seems both tormented by the disaster and uncertain of its significance in the larger scheme of things—for the nearby supervolcano, Uturunku, has begun to show a ground-lift in the areas around it, which may or may not be signs of an eruption in our time (if such a thing were to happen, and depending on the degree of the eruption, it could be a worldwide cataclysmic event).

The two male scientists are given food that induces extreme digestive distress to keep them out of the way. Meanwhile, Laura is taken to the middle of the salt flat and stranded near a rocky outcropping with two nearly blind children named Huascar and Atahualpa, the names of the last two pre-Columbian rulers of the Incan Empire, whose last independent acts were to go to war against each other. The three have been provided with enough food and water for a week, but it is uncertain whether or not they have been stranded for good.

Instead of trying to convince Dr. Sommerfield not to publish by argument, the CEO has staged the kidnapping and stranding of Sommerfield and the children with hope that it will drive home the emotional costs associated with the disaster, and that it would get her to publish a report that goes beyond statistics and figures. Later, the CEO reveals that the two children are his adoptive sons, and that their blindness is due to the disaster wrought by the CEO's own Consortium. Dr. Sommerfield is then given a first-class ticket to Rome, to visit the Santissima Trinità dei Monti convent (at the top of the Spanish Steps), which the CEO had always wanted to see, in order to view its cloister, which features an anamorphic fresco of Saint Francis of Paula praying under a tree. She urges the CEO to come with her instead of turning himself in, but he says he would be caught anyway.

####Say It in Russian####
Andrew (Steven Brand) meets a young Russian girl, Daria, while on vacation in Europe and falls in love. He goes to Moscow, where he meets Daria's father (Rade Sherbedgia), a rich Russian mafia oligarch, and becomes entwined with his situation, which places them both in grave danger.

####The Scarapist####
Lana (Jeanne Marie Spicuzza) a suburban writer, wife and mother, is seduced into bogus therapy by a possessed and demented hypnotherapist Ilse (Katy Colloton). Ilse employs the help of her patients, like Sweenie (R. Michael Gull). In a battle of good versus evil, Lana fights for her family against Ilse, who sets out to destroy them all.

####The Scarf####
John Ireland stars as John Barrington, an escapee from an institution for the criminally insane. Actually, Barrington is not insane, but the victim of a plot orchestrated by a clever murderer. The only person who believes Barrington's story is Ezra Thompson (James Barton) a turkey farmer who hides him from the authorities. Then a singing waitress named Cash-and-Carry Connie (Mercedes McCambridge) unwittingly provides the clue that will prove Barrington's innocence. Emlyn Williams co-stars as a psychiatrist.

####The Scribbler####
Suki, a young woman suffering from dissociative identity disorder, moves into Juniper Tower, a strange, darkly gothic apartment building, that serves as a halfway house for mental patients who don't need to be institutionalized any longer, but are not completely cured yet. Suki has been given an experimental device that lets her perform a procedure known as "The Siamese Burn" on herself. The machine is supposed to "burn" all her extra personalities until she only has one left.

At Juniper Tower, Suki reconnects with her friend with benefits Hogan, a man who may fake depression so that he can stay there as the "rooster of the henhouse". She also meets several female tenants and learns that Hogan has slept with most of them. One by one, the girls are found dead from apparent suicide.

Suki soon realizes that the girls have actually been murdered, and is worried that one of her multiple personalities is responsible. She keeps using the "Siamese Burn" to delete them, but the machine has been heavily modified, which leads Suki to believe that one of her personas, the one that committed the crimes, is trying to keep Suki from getting rid of her. She suspects the mysterious "Scribbler", a super-powered being who communicates with her by scribbling messages backwards.

Suki finally understands that the Scribbler has really been trying to help her solve the murders, and embraces her alter ego in order to fight the real killer, Alice, an escaped mental patient who's been hiding at Juniper Tower. Alice turns out to be the evil personality of Veronica, a young woman who unsuccessfully used the "Siamese Burn" to remove her. After the Scribbler overpowers Alice, Veronica commits suicide.

Later that night, Suki is interrogated by Detective Moss, who believes she committed all the murders, and Doctor Silk, who's hoping to figure out what really happened. During the interrogation, Hogan creates a distraction, and Suki uses the Scribbler's supernatural abilities to escape.

####Shadow Hours####
Michael Holloway (Balthazar Getty) is a recovering addict working as a gas station attendant to support his pregnant wife, Chloe (Rebecca Gayheart). He is then drawn into the seedy underworld of Los Angeles by Stuart (Peter Weller), a mysterious and wealthy stranger.

####Shadow of a Woman####
A woman (Andrea King) on the verge of a breakdown marries a fraudulent medical doctor (Helmut Dantine) she hardly knows, putting her in the path of fear and danger.  She suspects her husband is starving his young son from a previous marriage.

####Shattered Memories####
Holly sees her former lover Ray at the 15th anniversary party for her friends Lyle and Lois. She is drugged by someone and wakes up the next morning next to Ray's dead body. She does not call 911 because she finds his blood on her hands. She must figure out what happened to prove her innocence.

####Shiver####
Wendy Alden (Danielle Harris), a young secretary in Portland lacking in self- confidence becomes victim of a savage killer Franklin Rood (John Jarratt) who has claimed the lives of a number of other women. Somehow Wendy finds the resources of courage to fight back and escape.

####Shock####
A young woman named Janet Stewart is anticipating the arrival of her husband and attempts to check into a hotel. They are meeting after years apart and have planned to meet at the hotel. During his military service he was presumed dead, but was a prisoner of war. Unfortunately, her cable requesting the reservation never arrived. The staff, after hearing her story, agree to provide a room for the night. Restless, she isn't sleeping. She hears a loud argument and goes to the balcony window where she witnesses a man striking his wife with a candlestick. The woman is killed.

The next morning, her husband arrives and attempts to surprise Janet. Instead, he discovers her sitting on the couch, staring into space. She has gone into a state of shock as a result of seeing the murder. The hotel doctor is called, but he suggests she see a specialist.

The specialist that she sees turns out to be Dr. Cross, the man who murdered his wife.

####Shock Corridor####
Bent on winning a Pulitzer Prize, ambitious journalist Johnny Barrett hopes to uncover the facts behind the unsolved murder of Sloan, an inmate at a psychiatric hospital. He convinces an expert psychiatrist, Dr. Fong, to coach him to appear insane when it involves relating imaginary accounts of incest with his "sister", who is impersonated by his exotic-dancer girlfriend, Cathy; though against her wishes, she is talked into assisting him by filing a police complaint, and his performance during the investigation convinces the authorities to incarcerate him in the institution where the murder took place. Johnny is quickly disturbed by the behavior of his fellow inmates, and on one occasion is mauled by a group of female nymphomaniacs who assault him in their ward.

Johnny learns the murder had three witnesses, each driven insane by the stresses of war, bigotry, or fear of nuclear annihilation. The first, Stuart, is the son of a Southern sharecropper who was taught bigotry and hatred as a child. He was captured in the Korean War and was brainwashed into becoming a Communist. Stuart was ordered to indoctrinate a fellow prisoner, but instead the prisoner's unwavering patriotism reformed him. Stuart's captors pronounced him insane and he was returned to the United States in a prisoner exchange, after which he received a dishonorable discharge and was publicly reviled as a traitor. Stuart now imagines himself to be Confederate States of America General J.E.B. Stuart. Through conversation with Stuart, Johnny discerns that the killer was likely a hospital staff member, as Stuart recalled the assailant was dressed in white.

The second witness to Sloan's murder, Trent, was one of the first black students to integrate a segregated Southern university. Psychologically traumatized by the abuses he suffered there, he now imagines himself a member of the Ku Klux Klan, and stirs up the patients with white nationalist dogma. The third and final witness is Boden, an atomic scientist scarred by the knowledge of the devastating power of intercontinental ballistic missiles. He has regressed to the mentality of a six-year-old child.

After a hospital riot, Barrett is straitjacketed and subjected to shock treatment, and comes to believe Cathy is truly his sister, rejecting her when she comes to visit. He experiences many other symptoms of mental breakdown while he learns the identity of the killer - Wilkes, a hospital attendant who committed the murder to cover up his sexual liaisons with numerous female patients. Johnny confronts Wilkes in the hydrotherapy room, and begins a violent altercation with him, eventually extracting a confession in front of witnesses.

Wilkes is apprehended, and Johnny is finally able to write his story on Sloan's murder, but the ordeal leaves him with a shattered psyche, and he is diagnosed with schizophrenia. Some time later, Cathy visits Johnny in the hospital. She laments to a psychologist about Johnny's mental decline, as Johnny sits idly in a catatonic state.

####Shut In####
Young mother of two Jessica Nash is in the midst of fixing up the closet of her late grandmother's house (that she inherited) so that she can sell it and move. However, she accidentally gets stuck. She tries to get her young daughter Lainey to help her get out, but Lainey is unable to bring her the key. Jessica's ex-boyfriend Rob shows up with his friend Sammy, and Rob gets her out. However, Jessica is furious with Rob for bringing Sammy, a pedophile, to her house. Sammy manipulates Rob into getting him to put Jessica back into the closet before they leave. However, Sammy later breaks in.

Jessica manages to trick Sammy into reaching under the closet door, where she nails his hand to the ground with a screwdriver that Lainey brought her earlier, trapping Sammy next to her. She yells for Lainey to stay upstairs with her baby brother Mason, but Lainey comes downstairs. Sammy grabs Lainey and threatens to assault her if Jessica doesn't free him, but Jessica sets his hand on fire. This makes Sammy let Lainey go without hurting her. Although Jessica is forced to put out the fire so she doesn't suffocate herself, Sammy's hand is severely burned and mutilated, and it appears as though Sammy is dead.

Jessica removes the screwdriver so she can escape by crawling through the ceiling onto the second story. She brings Lainey and Mason to the car, but it starts to rain heavily, so Jessica lets her kids go back inside while she gets the door open. However, Sammy is still alive and he grabs the kids. Jessica runs back inside, but Sammy has a knife to Mason's throat.

Rob arrives with a gun and shoots Sammy in the head, and he and Jessica try to reconcile. However, Jessica realizes that Rob will always put his drugs before her and their children, so she slips him three grams of crystal meth. Rob overdoses, but before he dies he tries to force Jessica to do drugs, and she pushes him out a window to his death.

Some time later, Jessica and her kids are shown in the house, now cleaned up, making and selling her own apple butter (inspired by her mother's recipe) and mostly happy.

####Shuttle####
Mel (Peyton List) and Jules (Cameron Goodman) are best friends returning to Los Angeles from a trip in Mexico. Seth (James Snyder) and Matt (Dave Power) arrive and introduce themselves to them. Jules takes Mel into the bathroom to help her deal with her motion sickness, where Mel tells her that she has broken up with her fiancé.

Mel's luggage is lost in the airport, so she must return the next day to get it. Outside, they board a shuttle bus after its Driver (Tony Curran) offers to charge them half the price of a regular shuttle. On board, they meet Andy (Cullen Douglas), a shy family man. Seth and Matt see them and attempt to board, but the Driver tells them he can only make three stops at a time. Jules informs him that the men are with them.

During the trip, Mel shows Matt her signing skills while Seth and Jules flirt with each other. While taking an unusual detour, they are run off the road by a car, and the Driver gets out to survey the damage, which turns out to be a flat tire. Jules opts to call a taxi, but there is no service where they are. Matt offers to help change the tire. While his hand is on top of the tire, the Driver looks for some nuts for the wheel. Suddenly, the bus falls off the jack and onto Matt's hand, severing his fingers. They quickly drive off to the hospital.

During the ride, the Driver calmly pulls over, much to the astonishment of the passengers. He pulls a gun on them and demands cooperation, taking everyone's phones and wallets. While Mel and Seth argue about doing something, Jules finds a flare under the seat from the safety kit used to bandage Matt's hand, and Mel comes up with a plan to get the window open. Andy sees her and causes a commotion. A struggle ensues and the flare is set ablaze. The Driver sees this, stops the bus and removes the flare. Jules runs for the front and finds the door locked and the key missing.

The Driver re-enters and slashes Seth's face with a switchblade as a warning to the others. He informs them of a "change of plans", and drives them to an enclosed ATM for Jules to withdraw money. While she is inside, she knocks some paper into a bin and sets it on fire to set off an alarm. The Driver sees this and rushes towards her, but she slams the door. Mel escapes, but the Driver shouts at her that he will let Jules suffocate from smoke inhalation if she doesn't return to the bus.

At a supermarket, Mel signs into the closed-circuit camera her plight and gives the clerk a note to check the recording. Seth gets free, makes a run for it and is run over by the bus. His body is put on the bus. The clerk finds that the cctv was never turned on. Later, Mel shows Matt a knife she hid in the ice, which she uses to cut their belts off. Matt uses the ice bag to smash the window, and they all shout for help. When the driver walks towards them with a gun, Mel cuts the guy's wrist with the knife, and Matt hits him over the head with the bag. Mel grabs the gun and threatens to shoot the Driver. She makes him hand over the keys to the belts, and Jules is able to get herself and Andy free.

She takes the wheel of the bus and drives, leaving Matt with the gun and Andy with the knife. Andy then nonchalantly stabs Matt in the throat, which no one notices at first. He grabs the gun and puts it to Mel's head, telling her to get away from the pedals. Andy then reveals himself to be in league with the Driver. They stop at a bridge to throw the boys' bodies off, and afterward, Andy torments the girls for a few minutes before the Driver gets him to stop.

Mel get a tire iron from under the seat, and keeps it by her side. Andy wraps tape around the girls' mouths and takes a cuff of their hair. Mel hits him several times with the tire iron and the Driver is forced to stop. She pulls herself free, and the Driver attempts to get the gun, only for her to hit him on the hand, and knock it towards Jules. Mel seizes control and drives away, but he rushes towards her. She slams the brakes and accelerates to throw him about. She reaches for a knife and stabs him in the knee. Andy comes over to attack her but she grabs a fire extinguisher and hits him with it. The bus then crashes into a wall during the struggle.

Jules finds Andy dead and the driver and Mel unconscious; he flags down a passing car but while dialing 911 the bus runs over him. The Driver then takes them to a warehouse, where he forcibly removes a tattoo from Jules' body; he also takes the girls' driving licences and puts them in a drawer which is already full of other IDs of people the Driver has kidnapped or murdered before.  He has Jules dye Mel's hair blonde, then makes Mel and Jules strip down to their underwear and wear white high heels for an inspection. The man who inspects them is revealed to be the man that ran them off the road earlier, and the same man who was seen observing them at the airport in the opening scene. The Driver inspects their bags and finds that Jules has antifungal medication for a yeast infection. Since Jules is of no use to the Driver since both girls must be in good health, he takes her onto the bus and gasses her with a tube connected to the exhaust.

He finds Mel, who threatens to cut her face with a shard of glass, which would make her useless to him as well. Instead, she stabs him in the arm with it. He attempts to disarm her, but she stabs it into his thigh before hitting him in the face with some light fixtures. She finds the gun and shoots him, the bullet skimming his head. Thinking he is dead, she tries to escape in the bus. However, before it can start, the Driver attacks her again. They grapple for a minute before he forces her into a large wooden crate, which contains the items Mel purchased earlier in the grocery store: a flashlight, a loaf of bread, two jugs of water, two magazines, kitty litter, and a litter box, as well as her motion sickness pills.

Trapped inside the dark crate, Mel yells for help, but no one is there, and when someone with a forklift comes, he turns out to be in on the operation. While being carried away, she finds a photo of seven young white women in what looks like a filthy underground cellar. The photo depicts the despondent-looking girls completely naked, hair dyed blonde, and wearing white high heels (like Mel and Jules were forced to wear). It is heavily implied that these girls were also kidnapped by the Driver at some point and forced to become sex slaves overseas. Mel looks at the photo in horror as she realizes that she is to become a sex slave too. The crate is then loaded onto a cargo ship destined for East Asia.

The final shot is of Mel's lost luggage turning up at the airport as another day begins.

####Silent Partner####
Reporters investigating the death of a friend begin to suspect that their newspaper's editor might be responsible.

####Sin Cargo####
The film is about a man in financial ruin who becomes involved in pearl smuggling, but conceals the fact from his sister.

####Sins of Our Youth####
Four teenagers, Scott, David, Carlo, and Tyler, accidentally murder a younger boy while shooting off assault weapons recreationally, and make perilous decisions in the aftermath of the murder.

In a moment of desperation, paranoia, and fear that their lives are over, the four teenagers struggle to find a way out. They drunkenly construct a plan reminiscent of a video-game plot. Later, Scott shoots and kills Tyler at a school dance, but is shot and bleeds to death. Police surround the remaining two and Carlo commits suicide. The police think David is reaching for a gun and kill him, only for it to be revealed David was reaching for an inhaler.

####Sketch Artist####
During a homicide investigation, a police sketch artist realizes a witness is describing a suspect resembling the artist's wife down to the last detail. Conflicted by this revelation, he withholds pertinent information and begins his own search for the truth.

####Sketch Artist II: Hands That See####
Police artist Jack Whitfield (Fahey) is chasing a serial killer who seems to be unstoppable. The only surviving victim is Emmy O'Conner (Cox), who is blind. At first Jack is skeptical but she describes her attacker in uncanny detail and Jack becomes closer to catching the killer. But this man will stop at nothing to kill Emmy, the one who revealed his identity.

####Skinheads####
A group of neo-Nazi skinheads violently rob a Jewish grocery. After they flee the scene of the crime, they stop at a roadside diner where they encounter some traveling students. The neo-Nazis terrorize the students and the owner of the diner, leaving two survivors who escape to the nearby Colorado mountains. The neo-Nazis give chase but are met with opposition when a World War II veteran living in the woods comes to the aid of the students.

####Skinwalker####
When two Cowboys rob a Native American burial site, a hunter takes the famous Skinwalker, a monster that changes shape, into an unheard-of world.

####Snowden####
In 2013, Edward Snowden arranges a clandestine meeting in Hong Kong with documentarian Laura Poitras and journalist Glenn Greenwald. They discuss releasing the classified information in the former’s possession regarding illegal mass surveillance conducted by the National Security Agency (NSA). Poitras later released a documentary about this meeting titled "Citizenfour", this in turn was used in a scene within the film "Snowden".

In 2004, Snowden is undergoing basic training, having enlisted in the U.S. Army with intentions of matriculating to the Special Forces. He eventually fractures his tibia and is informed that he will be receiving an administrative discharge in the process.

Snowden applies for a position at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and subsequently undergoes the screening process. anchor|Corbin O'BrianInitially, his answers to the screening questions are insufficient, but Deputy Director Corbin O'Brian decides to take a chance on him, given the demands of such extraordinary times. Snowden is then brought to "The Hill" where he is educated and tested on cyberwarfare. He learns about the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which circumvents the Fourth Amendment rights of U.S. citizens by allowing warrant requests to be approved by a panel of judges that were appointed by the Chief Justice. Snowden and his peers are each tasked with building a covert communications network in their hometown, deleting it, and then rebuilding it in eight hours or less, with five hours being the average time taken. Snowden impresses O'Brian when he completes the exercise in 38 minutes.

Meanwhile, Snowden meets Lindsay Mills via a dating website. The two bond, despite sharply contrasting political ideologies. Snowden acquires his first post abroad working with diplomatic cover in Geneva in 2007, taking Mills with him. He meets Gabriel Sol, who has ample experience in electronic surveillance. Snowden begins questioning the ethical implications of their assignment. After his superior decides to set up their target on a DUI charge in order to coerce information from him, Snowden resigns from the CIA.

Snowden later takes a position with the NSA in Japan, initially under the pretense of building a program that would allow the government to back up all critical data from the Middle East in an emergency, a program which he names "Epic Shelter". Snowden learns of the practices the NSA and other U.S. government agencies are using not just in Japan, but in most countries which the U.S. is currently allied with, which include planting malware in different computers that manage government, infrastructure and financial sectors so that, in the event that any allies turn against the US, that country can effectively be shut down in retaliation. The stress associated with the job results in the end of his relationship with Mills, who moves back with her family in Maryland.

Three months later, Snowden has left his post with the NSA and returned to Maryland where he and Mills resume their relationship and he takes a position consulting for the CIA. During a hunting trip, O'Brian reveals an operation in Oahu that revolves around counterattacking Chinese hackers. After Snowden is diagnosed with epilepsy, Mills agrees that he should join the operation for she believes the environment in Hawaii may be beneficial for his health. Upon beginning his new job in "The Tunnel", an underground World War II bunker that has been re-purposed for massive electronic surveillance and SIGINT operations, Snowden learns that Epic Shelter is actually providing real-time data that assists U.S. drone pilots in launching lethal strikes against terror suspects in Pakistan.

Snowden ultimately becomes disillusioned with what he is a part of. It culminates in Snowden smuggling a microSD card into his office by way of a Rubik's Cube, and loading all relevant data. He then tells his colleagues he is feeling ill and departs. He advises Mills to fly home to Maryland, after which he contacts Poitras and Greenwald to schedule the meeting.

With the help of journalist Ewen MacAskill, the information is disseminated to the press on June 5, 2013, with additional leaks published in the following days. In the aftermath, with the help of MacAskill, Greenwald and Poitras, Snowden is smuggled out of Hong Kong on a flight bound for Latin America by way of Russia. However, the U.S. government revokes his passport, forcing him to remain in Moscow indefinitely. He is eventually granted asylum for three years, with Mills joining him at a later date. Snowden continues his activism.

####Soft & Quiet####
Kindergarten teacher Emily organizes the first-time meeting of the "Daughters for Aryan Unity", an organization of white supremacist Caucasian women, which includes ex-convict Leslie, small grocer owner Kim, and disgruntled retail worker Marjorie. The members present have various grievances against immigrants, minorities, Jews, feminists, inclusion policies such as diversity quotas, and social justice organizations such as Black Lives Matter. The meeting, held in a church, is cut short when the church pastor, uncomfortable with the topic of the group, threatens Emily into leaving. To save face, Emily decides to invite the others to her home; Leslie, Kim, and Marjorie accept.

The four travel to Kim's store for food and drink. While Emily is selecting wine, Asian-American sisters Anne and Lily arrive. Unaware that the shop was closed, they attempt to purchase wine, but are refused service by Kim. Lily becomes belligerent with Kim and Leslie while Anne attempts to defuse the situation, only to be intimidated by Emily into purchasing the most expensive item available. As the two sisters leave, Marjorie initiates a verbal confrontation with Anne which degenerates into violence. Kim arms herself with a pistol and forces the sisters out at gunpoint; while leaving Lily taunts Emily about her brother, who is currently in a county correctional facility serving time for rape.

Emily's husband Craig arrives and attempts to defuse the situation, but Leslie, who is incensed, suggests going to Anne's home to vandalize the property and steal her passport. Craig initially refuses, but is browbeaten by Emily into going along. The four women along with Craig arrive at Anne's home and perform acts of petty vandalism before Kim finds Anne's passport. Before they can leave, Anne and Lily suddenly arrive home and discover the intruders. Confused and unsure of what to do, the home invaders bind and gag Anne and Lily at gunpoint and discuss their options. Unable to condone the situation, Craig leaves.

Leslie suggests cleaning up the property to remove physical evidence of their presence and intimidating the sisters to keep them quiet. While drinking, Leslie and Marjorie beat Anne and Lily and force-feed Lily various food and drink. Lily begins choking; the women remove Anne's gag and she explains that Lily has a peanut allergy. Leslie finds an epi-pen too late and Lily dies from the allergic reaction. The group begins infighting due to this development; Kim and Marjorie want to leave immediately while Emily insists they need to remove the physical evidence. Leslie suggests making it look like a rape to make it seem less likely a group of women committed the attack, and then penetrates Anne with a carrot while the other three women clean up the crime scene. Leslie then suffocates Anne with a pillow.

The four intruders dump all of their trash, cleaning materials, and Lily and Anne's bodies into a bag and leave the property. Arriving at a nearby lake, they head out on a boat and dump the bag overboard. After they leave, Anne, still alive, frees herself.

####The Sonata####
Rose is a young and talented English violinist, a rising star in the world of classical music. Her agent and manager Charles has been taking care of her since her mother's demise when Rose was just sixteen. Her father - the infamous composer Richard Marlowe - abandoned the family and became a recluse soon after Rose's birth. Now in her twenties, Rose receives news of her father's death, and that she inherited his mansion in France. Despite the estrangement, the news affect Rose and she decides to visit her late father's house, hoping to understand his reason for abandoning the family all those years ago, much to Charles' disapproval.

At the mansion Rose discovers that her father had spent the last twenty-odd years working on a peculiar sonata for the violin. She contacts Charles, and sends him a sample of the sheet music.  Charles' investigation reveals that Richard may have been a member of a satanic cult that believed music was the key to summoning the Antichrist. Despite the revelation, Charles becomes fascinated with the sonata, hoping to use it to bring fame to Rose, himself and his struggling business. He travels to the mansion under the pretext of comforting Rose.

Meanwhile Rose begins to notice strange things happening around the mansion, and even sees an apparition of her dead father, who points her towards the old chapel nearby. Going there Rose discovers audiotapes of Richard torturing and murdering children, as it apparently helped him compose the sonata. Scared, Rose returns to the mansion and tells Charles about her discovery, saying that the sonata is a work of evil and must to be destroyed. The two have a disagreement, but Charles seemingly backs down. As he is pouring tea, he slips some sleeping pills into Rose's cup. Once she goes to bed, Charles begins deciphering the sonata using the torture tapes. One of the tapes eventually wakes Rose from her sleep and she discovers a mad and aggressive Charles, who demands that she play the sonata to him. Not having a choice, she complies and as she plays, a misty figure appears and flies around the room, eventually making its way to Charles, strangling him.

In the closing scene of the film, Rose is back in England, performing the sonata to a full audience for the first time. Just as she plays the first notes, her eyes start glowing red, and the screen fades to black.

####The Specialist####
When Pike Smith (John Anderson), a corrupt attorney for a California Water Company, is replaced by the flashy Jerry Bounds (Adam West), he hires Londa Wyeth (Ahna Capri), a voluptuous woman, to seduce Bounds and pose as a jury member so he can be disbarred from the profession.

####Spell####
While flying to his father's funeral in rural Appalachia Kentucky, an intense storm causes Marquis to lose control of the plane carrying himself and his family. He soon awakens wounded, alone and trapped in Ms. Eloise's attic. Eloise claims she can nurse him back to health with a hoodoo figure she's made from his blood and skin. Unable to call for help, Marquis desperately tries to break free from her dark magic and save his family from a sinister ritual before the rise of the blood moon.

####Spellbinder####
Miranda Reed is saved from an abusive boyfriend by Los Angeles attorney Jeff Mills and his lawyer friend and coworker Derek Clayton. The boyfriend makes threats at Jeff, but eventually leaves. As Miranda has no home, Jeff offers to let her stay at his. Jeff becomes romantically involved with Miranda, despite the ominous things that keep happening since he has met her. Grace, Jeff's secretary warns Jeff that Miranda is trouble, but he does not heed her warning. Miranda disappears after her mother Mrs. White confronts Jeff in his office.  Jeff seeks the help of the police and Lieutenant Lee warns him that Miranda is wearing a necklace with the sign of a satanic cult suspected of murders and disappearances in the area.

Miranda eventually reappears and reveals that she belongs to the cult, a coven run by her ex-boyfriend and her mother was responsible for her induction into the cult. Miranda says she wants to leave the cult and explains that the mysterious events Jeff has witnessed are part of the coven's effort to bring Miranda back into the fold, as if they have not done so by the winter solstice, Miranda will be free forever. The coven's solstice ritual features a human sacrifice on a beach where the victim has to come voluntarily.

Jeff vows to help Miranda elude the coven. He hides her with his client Brock while he goes to work, but the coven finds Miranda and kills Brock. In a frenzy, Jeff breaks into Miranda's old house and coerces the current occupants who are members of the cult, to reveal Miranda's whereabouts, which is Towers Beach. Jeff and Derek rush to the beach to save Miranda. Derek leaves to call the police, while Jeff stealthily moves towards the beach, where the cult is having their ceremony. Unfortunately, Jeff is spotted and captured. The coven have Miranda tied up as a sacrifice.  Miranda's ex-boyfriend stabs towards her, as Jeff screams—but unexpectedly—he cuts Miranda loose rather than killing her. Miranda then confuses Jeff by seductively dancing around him, rather than running away or helping him.  Before he could come to his senses, Jeff is forcefully tied up where Miranda used to be. Miranda is then robed and joins the coven in their ritual.

It is now clear that Miranda is only there as bait. Jeff is the real sacrifice, and Derek is the actual leader of the coven with Miranda as his co-conspirator to trap Jeff and make him voluntarily come to the sacrifice. Derek and Miranda mock Jeff and Derek kills Jeff who realizes the full extent of the plot and his betrayal, but is too late. The film ends with Grace's funeral; she had died under mysterious circumstances (presumably killed by the cult in order to avoid exposure). The final scene shows Miranda and Derek replaying the same scenario from the beginning of the film on a new victim, Derek's new legal client.

####Spiral####
The story follows lonely introvert Mason, a telesales insurance company worker by day and talented painter as well as a lover of classic jazz by night. His only friend is his boss, Berkeley (Levi), who keeps an eye on him and humors his bizarre behavior. When awkward Mason meets  social Amber, a new co-worker, he begins to come out of himself, and reveals the depth and darkness of his mind.

####Split Second####
Sam Hurley and Bart Moore escape from prison, although Moore is seriously wounded in the breakout. They commandeer a gas station, killing the attendant when he tries to disarm Hurley. They meet up with a confederate, a mute named "Dummy", and hide out in a ghost town. Along the way, they pick up several hostages, Kay Garven and her lover Arthur Ashton, reporter Larry Fleming, dancer Dorothy "Dottie" Vail, and the town's sole resident, Asa Tremaine. Sam calls Kay's husband, Neal, a doctor, and threatens to kill Kay if he does not come and help Bart.

Larry warns the gangsters that the government is going to conduct an atomic bomb test nearby the next morning, but Sam does not believe him. When Arthur causes trouble, Sam kills him without a qualm. To Kay's surprise, Neal still loves her enough to show up. He successfully operates on Bart, but warns Sam that moving his friend too soon will kill him. When Sam finally realizes that Larry was telling the truth, he still waits as long as possible to give Bart time to recuperate.

Unknown to everyone, the test has been moved ahead an hour due to favorable weather conditions. When the five-minute warning sounds earlier than expected, Sam and Bart hurry to Neal's car and a desperate Kay persuades Sam to take her along. Larry overpowers Dummy, but the others drive away. Asa leads Dottie, Larry, and Neal to safety in a nearby mine. Sam, Bart and Kay are killed by the explosion, but the others emerge unharmed.

####Spring Break Shark Attack####
During spring break, when a pack of tiger sharks begins a feeding frenzy on partying teen-aged bathers, the only safe place is up on the beach far from the water. Fighting for survival, a group of coeds must attempt to outsmart nature's perfect predator.

Danielle (Shannon Lucio) is a teen-aged girl who, against her father's wishes, heads to Florida for spring break. Rather than the truth, she tells her parents that she is going to spend the time working with Habitat For Humanity, but she instead meets up with two girlfriends who have rented a beach house at Seagull Beach, Florida, for a week, fully intent on having a good time. As she explores the beach area, she meets the creepy J.T. (Justin Baldoni), who sees her as only a spring break sexual conquest. She also meets local charter boat owner Shane Jones (Riley Smith), and decides she likes him. J.T. is willing to do anything to achieve his goal of sex with Danielle, and so charters the boat that Shane and his mother (Kathy Baker) have been hiring out to tourists. When everyone is out at sea they learn that the waters are becoming infested with an increasing number of tiger sharks. Danielle's marine biologist brother, Charlie (Wayne Thornley) just happens to also be doing research on an artificial reef in the same location, and must determine how best to save his sister and warn others.

####Standoff####
A young girl named Bird is dropped off by a man to visit two graves, where she witnesses and photographs a hitman (Laurence Fishburne) killing people at a burial. When the man, Roger, comes looking for her, the hitman kills him and turns to her (noticing her camera), but she flees into the woods and arrives at the house of a man named Carter (Thomas Jane), who vows to protect her. The hitman enters the house and shoots Carter, who shoots him in return. Carter is stuck upstairs and the hitman downstairs. Carter sends the girl for some light bulbs, which he breaks and throws down the stairs.  Bird tells Carter what happened in the cemetery and that she has a picture of the hitman; Carter directs her to hide the film in the toilet tank. The hitman finds a picture of Carter in military uniform with his wife and son and goads him over their leaving him.

A sheriff's deputy happens upon the abandoned cars at the cemetery.  In the house, Carter has a flashback about his son, who accidentally died when he fell on a piece of farming equipment Carter neglected to clean up. The hitman finds and reads a letter Carter had written his wife, taking blame for the death of their son. He antagonizes Carter whom he realizes was contemplating suicide.  While Bird and Carter talk about his family, the hitman fires his gun, which the deputy hears. The lights in the house start to fade and Carter realizes he needs to get Bird out as he cannot protect them both in the dark.

The deputy arrives while Carter is trying to get Bird out through a window. The hitman shoots the deputy through the door, scaring Bird, who goes back upstairs.  The hitman hides the deputy's car and starts to head back to the house, but Carter confronts him and tells him to leave. The hitman tries to goad him to shoot, guessing he only has the one shot. Carter relents because the hitman has taken the deputy's gun.  Inside, he tries to barter with Carter for the deputy's life. After breaking his fingers, he kills the deputy.

After a period of silence, Carter tells Bird to hide and heads downstairs. He hears creaking above him and finds the hitman's boots.  Realizing he has snuck onto the roof, Carter follows him back in through a window. Surprised, the hitman steps on the broken bulbs and falls down the stairs.  They resume their standoff. The hitman considers burning the house down but reconsiders his plan when he remembers he has Carter's cell phone.

As night falls, both men are injured and tired. A vehicle arrives and Carter sees that the hitman has called his wife, Mara, claiming he was worried about Carter.  He once again barters for the girl. Carter gives Bird the shotgun, instructing her to aim down the stairs and shoot if she sees the hitman. Angry that Carter came instead of the girl, the hitman shoots Carter in the knee.  As they argue, Bird descends the stairs to protect Carter. The lights flicker, distracting the hitman and Carter rushes him. He stabs the hitman repeatedly, but is shot as the lights go out. Mara runs outside and calls 911 and Bird approaches the hitman, who is dying. He tells her to shoot him but the trigger simply clicks; the round is a dud. Amused at his bad luck, the hitman refuses to kill Bird since he is already dying and no need to protect his identity anymore. She runs to Carter assuming the worst, but he is alive. Mara returns and the three embrace.

####The Stanford Prison Experiment####
Stanford University psychology professor Philip Zimbardo conducts a psychological experiment to investigate the hypothesis that roles in social situations, rather than individual personality traits, cause participants' behavior. In the experiment, Zimbardo selects eighteen male students to participate in a 14-day prison simulation to take roles as prisoners or guards. They receive $15 per day. The experiment is conducted in a mock prison located in the basement of Jordan Hall, the university's psychology department building. The students who are guards become abusive, as does Zimbardo himself, as they immerse themselves in their assigned roles. Two students who play the role of prisoners quit the experiment early due to psychological meltdowns. After being chastised and roughly brought back to reality by his girlfriend Christina Maslach, Zimbardo abruptly stops the entire experiment after only six days.

####Stoker####
On her 18th birthday, India Stoker, a girl with a strong acuteness of the senses, is left with her unstable mother Evelyn after her loving father Richard dies in a car crash. At Richard's funeral, Evelyn and India are introduced to Richard's charismatic younger brother Charlie, who has spent his life traveling the world. India, who didn't know Charlie existed, is perturbed by his presence. He announces that he is staying indefinitely to help support India and Evelyn, to Evelyn's delight and India's chagrin.

Shortly after, India witnesses Charlie argue with Mrs. McGarrick, the head caretaker of the house. Mrs. McGarrick complains to Charlie that she has been his "eyes and ears" since he was a boy. Mrs. McGarrick then disappears. Charlie and Evelyn grow intimate while India continues to rebuff his attempts to befriend her. India's great aunt Gwendolyn visits the family, to Evelyn and Charlie's dismay. Gwendolyn shows surprise at Charlie's claims of traveling the world and tells Evelyn that she needs to talk to her about Charlie. Gwendolyn changes hotels due to an unexplained fear and suspicion of Charlie. She loses her cell phone and tries to call the Stokers' home from a phone booth, but Charlie arrives and strangles her to death with his belt. Meanwhile, India discovers Mrs. McGarrick's body in the freezer and realizes Charlie is a murderer.

India unleashes her inner aggression at school and stabs a bully, Chris Pitts, in the hand with a pencil after he tries to land a punch to her head. This draws the attention of another classmate, Whip Taylor. At home, India witnesses Evelyn and Charlie growing intimate. She wanders off to a local diner where she runs into Whip. She and Whip go into the woods, where they proceed to make out, until India aggressively bites his lip. Whip attempts to rape India before Charlie intervenes and breaks Whip's neck with his belt while Whip's body lies on top of India. India aids Charlie in burying the body in her garden. She attempts to call Gwendolyn, but hears her phone ring in the garden, realizing Charlie killed her too. While showering, India masturbates to the memory of the murder, climaxing as she remembers Charlie breaking Whip's neck.

While going through Richard's office to gather things of his she wants to keep, India discovers that a key she received as a birthday present belongs to a locked drawer to Richard's desk. Inside, she finds dozens of letters Charlie wrote to her over the years, which detail his travels and his love for his niece, although they have never met. However, she sees that the sending address is a mental institution. She confronts Charlie, who explains the truth: Charlie killed his and Richard's younger brother Jonathan as a child by burying him alive in a sandbox because he was jealous that Richard paid more attention to him. He was then put in a mental institution. When released on India's 18th birthday, Richard gave Charlie a car, money, and an apartment in New York City on the condition that he stay away from Richard's family. Feeling hurt and betrayed, Charlie bludgeoned Richard to death with a rock and staged the car accident.

India is shocked and angered, but Charlie explains he has come for her and gives her a birthday present, a pair of stiletto heels, to replace her more childish saddle shoes. She seemingly forgives Charlie and grows closer to him after he provides an alibi for her when Sheriff Howard questions her about Whip's disappearance. They grow close to intimate before Evelyn witnesses them. Charlie tells India that, after waiting until she came of age, he wants her to come to New York with him. Later, Evelyn coldly expresses her desire to watch India suffer before confronting Charlie, implying that she knows the truth about Richard's death and Charlie's institutionalization. Charlie seduces Evelyn and then attempts to strangle her with a belt, but India fatally shoots him in the neck with her rifle. She buries Charlie's body in the backyard, then leaves for New York in his car.

India is pulled over for speeding by Sheriff Howard, who asks her why she's in a hurry. She replies that she wanted to catch his attention, then stabs him in the neck with a pair of pruning shears. She pursues the bleeding sheriff into a field to shoot him with her rifle.

