####Across the Pacific####
After his father brings disgrace on his family, Monte joins the Spanish–American War (April–August 1898) and goes with his regiment to the Philippines. Although he has a sweetheart back home, Claire Marsh, he is enlisted to romance a mixed race girl, Roma, who knows the whereabouts of the Philippine leader Emilio Aguinaldo. Monte must keep up the ruse even when Claire comes to the islands to visit him. He finally gets the information that he needs but not before he is branded a deserter and then must prove his mettle on the battlefield. When the insurrection is squelched and Aguinaldo is captured, Monte is able to explain everything to Claire, and the couple are reunited.

####Already Tomorrow in Hong Kong####
Outside a bar, Ruby Lin (Jamie Chung), an American children's toy designer temporarily in Hong Kong, makes plans over her phone to meet her friends at another bar. Overhearing that her phone doesn't have GPS and she is lost, American expat Josh Rosenberg (Bryan Greenberg) offers to walk her to her destination. As they walk and talk they find a connection sparking between them. Josh tells Ruby that he works in finance but longs to be a writer and she encourages him to quit his job to write a novel. Once they reach the location where Ruby is supposed to meet her friends, Ruby offers to blow them off to get a drink with Josh. At the bar he confesses to Ruby that he has a girlfriend and the reason he was outside the bar and overheard Ruby's conversation was because he had left his girlfriend inside doing birthday shots and flirting with other men. Ruby is infuriated and leaves.

A year later, aboard the Star Ferry, Josh spots Ruby and re-introduces himself hoping to apologize to her. He tells her that their conversation affected him profoundly and he has quit his job in finance to work as a writer over the past year. Ruby tells him that she has been living in Hong Kong for the past year due to a promotion that temporarily relocated her there. In the spirit of honesty, Josh tells Ruby he and his girlfriend are still together while Ruby tells Josh she also has a long-distance boyfriend. The two spend the night reconnecting and gradually feel themselves drifting together romantically once more. While slow dancing at a lounge, Josh is spotted by a friend of his girlfriend's and Ruby is upset, feeling that they have been emotionally cheating with one another. Josh and Ruby split a cab to go home, and Ruby admits to Josh that her boyfriend is actually her fiancé and she is leaving Hong Kong within the week. They both admit that they do not want to cheat with each other but have feelings for each other.

The two sit in the cab outside Ruby's apartment trying to decide what to do.

####The Amateur Wife####
As described in a film magazine, Justine Spencer (Castle), daughter of the musical comedy queen Dodo Spencer (Anderson), arouses the interest of wealthy bachelor Cosmo Spotiswood (Carleton) on account of her odd appearance and unhappy life. When Dodo Spencer is killed by a jilted admirer, he marries the young woman in a spirit of pity, and when she asks him to show some love for her, he tells her the true state of affairs. While he is abroad for a year, she secures a maid to brighten up her appearance and immediately is transformed into a pretty woman with a score of admirers. When her husband returns, she rebuffs him. Finally, convinced that she has awakened his love, she consents to live with him.

####The Amazing Mr. Williams####
Maxine Carroll, secretary to the mayor, waits impatiently for Kenny Williams, who gets called away by Captain McGovern on police business not long after he arrives. Maxine has enough time to try to talk him into leaving the police force to start a family. Kenny joins Detective Deever and Lieutenant Bixler) in the investigation of the murder of a circus performer, which Kenny solves with the arrest of a jealous knife-thrower.

Kenny has another date with Maxine, but this time the captain wants him to pick up Texas Buck Moseby at the jail and take him to the penitentiary by train. Instead of heading straight to the train, however, Kenny passes Moseby off as his college friend so he can keep his date with Maxine. Moseby is introduced to Effie, and the four go to the beach casino, then dancing later. Maxine suspects something is not right and calls the captain who tells her Kenny is on the train with Texas Buck Moseby, she informs him that they are both with her, which the captain does not believe. Bixler then tells the captain that the prison warden has called and said Kenny and Moseby have not arrived yet. The captain, who is still on the phone with Maxine, asks her to try to keep them there as long as possible. When the cops do arrive, Moseby tries to make a run for it, but Kenny is too quick for him and puts handcuffs on him. Effie faints when the captain announces that Buck Moseby is a notorious convict and killer.

Because of the incident with Moseby, Kenny is suspended for 60 days without pay by the police commissioner at the citizens committee meeting the following day. The Phantom Slugger, who has been fatally attacking random women on the street, has still not been caught, and the citizens committee is in an uproar about it. Captain McGovern suggests a male policeman wear women's clothes as a decoy to try to catch the criminal. Maxine writes a note suggesting they use Kenny and hands it to the mayor. The police commissioner is willing to reinstate Kenny if he will agree to go undercover, which he does. After 48 hours, Maxine is worried that neither she nor anyone at the police force has heard from Kenny, when they find out he has been spotted. Maxine goes to the location, but as soon as she sees Kenny the Phantom Slugger attacks her and knocks her out. Kenny struggles with the criminal, still in women's clothes, and arrests him.

Kenny visits Maxine in the hospital. She pretends to be sicker than she is and convinces him to turn in his resignation. The next day it is discovered that the night watchman at the First National Bank has been killed in a burglary worth $25,000. The captain finds Kenny's resignation but needs him to investigate the burglary, so Bixler pretends to have resigned as well to pique his interest in the investigation. Meanwhile, Maxine and Effie are planning a wedding for noon at the mayor's office, but Kenny is late as usual. The captain arrives and boasts that Kenny has nabbed the burglar, Stanley. Maxine calls off the wedding. Kenny arrives but it is too late.

Stanley insists he was forced to take part in the robbery by another man. Kenny discovers new evidence that might clear Stanley but he is supposed to take him to the prison by train. Meanwhile, the captain and detectives are trying to arrest Kenny for taking Stanley off the train. Kenny enlists Maxine's help in finding the person who purchased the liquor bottle found in Stanley's car, which leads them to the racetrack to arrest the real killer.

####Ambush at Tomahawk Gap####
Four outlaws have just been released from Yuma Territorial Prison. They return to Tomahawk Gap, now a ghost town, to retrieve the money that they stole and was buried by a partner somewhere in the town. While hunting, the Indians attack, and a life and death battle ensues.

####The Annihilation of Fish####
A woman (Lynn Redgrave) who believes a dead composer is in love with her falls in love with a man (James Earl Jones) who constantly fights an imaginary man named Hank.

####Beau Ideal####
The last two surviving members of a French Foreign Legion detachment, who know each other as Smith and Brown, are consigned to a grain pit in the desert to die slowly. As they await death the two soldiers eventually realize that they were childhood friends, John Geste (Ralph Forbes) and Otis Madison (Lester Vail), respectively.

Once they recognize one another, they have a series of flashbacks to their boyhood friendship in England. These memories are followed by Otis' memory of his return to England and discovery that John has joined the French Foreign Legion. While in England, Otis also learns that Isobel Landon (Loretta Young), who he is enamored with, is betrothed to John. Despite his feelings for her, he vows to follow John to Africa and return him to England. He makes arrangements and leaves for the dark continent.

Upon his arrival in Africa, Otis, and his detachment, are ordered to garrison a French fort in the desert. As hardships ensue, his fellow legionnaires begin to mutiny. Otis does not participate in the uprising, instead he attempts to get the other soldiers to cease their rebellion. When the uprising is eventually thwarted, the commanders do not believe Otis' story, and assume that he was part of the rebellion, and send him to a penal detail. While part of that detail, he is again falsely accused, and is thrown into the pit, along with John, which puts them both in the pit where the film begins.

Back in the present, as they are about to die, they are miraculously rescued by a passing band of Arabs. Unknown to the two friends is that the Arabs intend to use them as bait to draw their fellow legionnaires into a death trap. Fortunately for the friends, the girlfriend of the Emir, Zuleika (Leni Stengel), also known as "the Angel of Death", is attracted to Otis. Otis uses that attraction and agrees to marry her, after which Zuleika informs him of an impending attack by the Arabs on the nearby fort, and then helps Otis and John to escape. The two legionnaires race to the fort, and help to repel the Arab attack, which earns both of them their freedom.

Otis now has to face up to his commitment to Zuleika. However, she has now transferred her affections to Major LeBaudy (Hale Hamilton), which allows Otis to be relieved of his matrimonial duties. Free from any entanglements, the two friends return to England. Once there, John releases Isobel from their betrothal, which clears the way for her and Otis to marry.

####Beau Sabreur####
A desert-bound member of the French Foreign Legion exposes a betrayer to the Legion. He is then sent on a mission among the Arabs to conclude the signing of a crucial peace treaty.

####Bobbed Hair####
As described in a film magazine, Polly Heath (Hawley), a romantic young woman, runs away from home when her approved suitor, Dick Barton (Boyd), dwells too consistently upon material considerations like money and diamonds. She takes up abode with an old school chum in a new thought colony and bobs her hair and dons Grecian vestments. Her suitor follows her and rescues her from ultra modern poet Paul Lamont (Carleton) who has engineered a compromising situation, whereupon she sees his proffered solitaire in a new light and forswears romance and futurism indefinitely.

####Boxcar Bertha####
Boxcar Bertha Thompson, a poor southern girl, is orphaned when her father's crop dusting airplane crashes. The Great Depression hits, and she soon takes to freighthopping. A few years later, she meets Big Bill Shelly, a union organizer, and they become lovers. Together with Rake Brown, a gambler, and Von Morton, who worked for Bertha's father, they start train and bank robbery by accident, and eventually face up to the railway boss H. Buckram Sartoris in the American South. The group become notorious fugitives of the law and are hunted down by the railway company. In the process, Rake is gunned down and Bill and Von are sent to a chain gang. Bertha escapes but is lured into prostitution. She meets Von by chance in a tavern for blacks and learns that Bill broke the jail and is now in hiding. Von leads Bertha to the hiding place where she has a moment of sweet reunion with Bill before Sartoris's henchmen break in and crucify Bill. Before they can leave, Von appears, wipes out the henchmen and releases Bertha from the bondage.

####A Boyfriend for Christmas####
After helping a boy take his little sister to see Santa, 13-year-old Holly Grant tells a shopping mall Santa Claus that she would like to have a boyfriend for Christmas. Twenty years later, Holly is a romantic skeptic and is more focused on her career as a social worker. At the time, she is in court helping a mother get her children back from foster care. When the mother's lawyer, Ryan Hughes, does not show up in court, Holly is extremely angry and sends Hughes a letter via her secretary. On Christmas Day, she opens her door to a man carrying a Christmas tree and a bow on his chest.  He hands her a note that says, "As promised, one boyfriend for Christmas," and introduces himself as "Douglas Firwood". She assumes he is a gag present from her friend Diane, and invites him into her  home.  Later that day she takes him with her to her parents' house for Christmas dinner. Hoping to keep her matchmaking family, especially her manipulative sister-in-law Carol, off her back, she tells everyone that Douglas is her long-term boyfriend, and Douglas plays along. On New Year's Eve, Holly learns from her scheming ex-boyfriend Ted that Douglas is really Ryan Hughes, who was sent to her by Santa Claus. She accuses him of lying to her and tells him to leave. After persuasion by Santa Claus and refusing Ted's marriage proposal, she follows Ryan. They meet up at a park, where they finally remember where they first met - at age 13 when she helped him take his little sister to see Santa - and they watch the New Year's fireworks together.

####Brass####
As described in a film magazine review, a young man born in the country leaves his family farm to engage in business in the city. He marries for the first time when he is still very young, finds the match a failure, gets a divorce, and starts life again. The hopelessness of life as far as a happy marriage is concerned forces itself on the young man, whose only brief period of happiness was enjoyed when he was living with a woman who really loves him and sacrifices for him.

####The Bride's Play####
As described in a film magazine, Aileen Barrett (Davies) and Sir Fergus Cassidy (Standing) have been neighbors for years. He loves her but Aileen has become enamored of a poet, Bulmer Meade (Miller). When she learns that the poet regards her as but a passing whim, she realizes it is Sir Cassidy that she cares for and their wedding is arranged. The Bride's Play, which had been a custom in the Barrett family for years, is announced as being revived for the wedding. The former lover learns that several hundred years ago, during the process of the play at the wedding of a member of the family of Sir Cassidy, the bride was carried off by an old lover who arrived on the scene during its enactment. He attempts to do the same thing at Aileen's wedding, but the modern young woman, confronted with the crisis when he maliciously answers her question in the affirmative in the presence of the many wedding guests, strikes him across the face with her wedding slipper.

####Broadway Love####
The film follows the story of Midge O'Hara, a young country girl who leaves home in order to perform on Broadway. She is able to get hired as a chorus girl, and, at her new job, she meets Cherry Blow, a party girl and gold digger. Cherry dates one man, staying with him until his cash runs out, at which time she leaves for someone else who is wealthy. One of these men is Jack Chalvey, whom Cherry had dated until her expensive tastes left him in debt.

After meeting Midge, Jack, who has become depressed and almost commits suicide, reforms his life and also begins to take interest in her. However, Midge's own life becomes more complicated when her hayseed boyfriend from the country, Elmer Watkins (Lon Chaney), comes into town to propose to her. Midge discourages Elmer and he goes off and marries another woman. To make matters worse, wealthy millionaire Henry Rockwell begins pursuing her as well.

Midge prevents the despondent Jack from killing himself at a party, but she gets soaking wet in a rainstorm accomplishing this. Rockwell offers to help the dripping wet Midge to get home from the party. Sharing a cab ride with her to her apartment, Rockwell attempts to embrace Midge in the back seat, and he causes her to fall out of the cab and injure herself. He later proposes to her at the hospital, and Cherry winds up getting back together with Jack in the end.

####The Carson City Kid####
The Carson City Kid (Roy Rogers) is a stagecoach robber seeking vengeance on Morgan Reynolds (Bob Steele), the man who killed his brother. Reynolds is travelling with Laramie (Francis McDonald), a notorious half-breed outlaw. Rogers falls in love with saloon singer Joby Madison (Pauline Moore). George "Gabby" Hayes appears as Sheriff Gabby Whittaker.

####Chocolat####
Vianne and her six year-old daughter Anouk drift across Europe following the north wind, like Vianne's mother before her. In 1959 they arrive in a quiet French village, overseen by mayor the Comte de Reynaud at the start of Lent. Vianne opens a chocolate shop; despite not fitting in well with the townspeople, begins to make headway with some of the villagers to come to her shop. Reynaud, who will not admit his wife left him, speaks out against Vianne for tempting the people during Lent.

Armande, Vianne's elderly landlady, is one of her first allies. Armande's daughter Caroline will not let her see her grandson Luc, as she is a "bad influence". Vianne arranges for him and his grandmother to meet in the chocolaterie, where they bond. After finding out about their secret meetings, Caroline reveals her mother is diabetic, but she continues to eat the chocolate when visiting the shop.

Vianne develops a friendship with Josephine, who is being physically abused by her husband Serge, the local café owner. Through their friendship, Josephine finds the courage to leave Serge after he beats her, moving in with Vianne and Anouk. As she works at the chocolate shop and learns the craft, her confidence slowly increases. Simultaneously, under Reynaud's instruction, Serge attempts to make amends for his abusiveness, eventually asking Josephine to come back to him, but she refuses. Later that night, a drunken Serge breaks into the shop, attacking both women, but Josephine knocks him out.

As the rivalry between Vianne and Reynaud intensifies, a band of river Romani camp near the village. Although most of the town objects to their presence, Vianne embraces them and a mutual attraction develops between her and the leader, Roux. They hold a birthday party for Armande with villagers on Roux's boat. When Caroline sees Luc dancing with his grandmother, she begins to accept that Armande's influence in her son's life may be positive. Luc takes Armande home after the party, while Josephine and Anouk fall asleep on a boat, which Serge sets fire to, while Roux and Vianne make love on a barge in the river. No one is hurt in the fire, but Vianne is shaken. Armande later dies in her home and is discovered by Luc, devastating both him and his mother; meanwhile Roux packs up and leaves with his group.

Reynaud initially believes the fire was divine intervention until Serge confesses to starting it, saying he thought it was what he wanted. Horrified, Reynaud orders him to leave the village and not to come back.

With the return of the north wind, Vianne decides she cannot win against Reynaud, and decides to move on. Anouk, now attached to the town, refuses to go and during a scuffle, the urn containing Vianne's mother's ashes breaks, scattering them over the floor. While recovering the ashes, Vianne sees the townspeople and the positive influence she's had on their lives and decides to stay.

Despite shifting sentiment in the town, Reynaud remains staunch in his abstinence of eating any chocolate. On the Saturday evening before Easter, Reynaud sees Caroline, to whom he is attracted, leaving the chocolaterie and is devastated. He breaks into the shop that night, smashing the special window display for the Easter festival. After a morsel of chocolate falls on his lip, he devours much of the chocolate in the window before collapsing in tears and falling asleep. The next morning, Vianne wakes him and gives him a drink to help him. Reynaud apologizes for his behavior. The town's young priest Père Henri gives a sermon emphasizing the importance of humanity over divinity.

The narrator, a grown-up Anouk, reveals that the sermon and festival are a success. Reynaud and Caroline start a relationship half a year later. Josephine takes over Serge's café, renaming it Café Armande. The north wind returns, but this time Vianne throws her mother's ashes out into the wind. Anouk concludes the story: Roux returns in the summer to be with Vianne and Anouk.

####A Christmas Kiss####
Wendy works as a busy assistant to the callous designer Priscilla, but has dreams of becoming an interior designer in her own right. After her friends encourage her to focus on herself, Wendy impulsively kisses a handsome stranger while they are trapped together in an elevator but neglects to learn his name. She is later reunited with the man, but is dismayed to learn that he is her boss's boyfriend Adam and that due to the sparkly makeup she was wearing, doesn't recognize her.

Wendy and Priscilla are hired to decorate Adam's house for an upcoming Christmas fundraiser. After learning about Adam and his grandmother, Wendy creates a theme centered upon Charles Dickens' 1843 novella "A Christmas Carol,"  as it was a book both enjoyed. Her credit is stolen by Priscilla after Adam dismisses the designer's original idea, portraying it as an alternate theme of hers. While working on the decorations Wendy quickly falls in love with Adam, who in turn realizes that he wants to break up with Priscilla due to their differing values.

Priscilla ends up firing Wendy after discovering that she stayed over at Adam's house watching movies, as the two had fallen asleep. She also plants a fake engagement announcement in the newspaper to undermine Adam's plans at breaking up. Priscilla later slips up and reveals that the design was actually Wendy's, which disgusts Adam. The two then go to the local theatre, where he breaks up with Priscilla after being reunited with Wendy. While she is initially reluctant to reconcile with Adam, Wendy and Adam become a couple and the film ends with them becoming engaged.

####Christmas Next Door####
Eric Redford (Jesse Metcalfe) is a popular writer and bachelor, writing books on living single. When he is left in charge of his niece and nephew for the Christmas season, he turns to neighbour April Stewart (Fiona Gubelmann), who loves the holiday season, for help. As the result, he slowly starts to reassess his attitude to Christmas, life and love.

####Christmas Wedding Baby####
Three sisters struggle to find happiness through the holiday season as the youngest sister and bride to be is traumatized when she discovers that her first love has been hired as her wedding photographer.

####The Clash of the Wolves####
Lobo, wolfdog leader of a wolf pack, has a price on his head. One day while suffering from a thorn in his paw, he is found by Dave Weston, a borax prospector and befriended. The animal returns love and loyalty. Later, Lobo saves Dave from attacks of scheming villain William 'Borax' Horton, who has designs on Dave's claim. Once again the villain attacks the young prospector and leaves him for dead on the site of the claim. Lobo arrives and Dave sends him with a message to town for help. In the meantime, a posse is hunting Lobo, but he manages to escape them and, at the same time, decoy them to Dave. There, they learn that Lobo is man's best friend.

####Clearing the Range####
As with many of Gibson's starring roles in westerns, he pretends to be a clueless "peaceful man" in front of his friends, but when trouble starts—in this case, his Banker brother has been murdered by his assistant—he resorts to clever trickery without being seen or suspected to undo the villain. By going underground, so to speak, his efforts are more effective in uncovering the murderer than a run-and-gun approach. Inevitably, the female lead, as in this film, looks down her nose at Gibson's public persona, but admires his "other" self's deeds of daring and courage, not realizing it's the same man. Eventually, he relies on fists and guns to finish the job he started with trickery. This unusually complex dual-identity plot device is a hallmark of many of Gibson's films, something that set him apart from many other Western film heroes of the era (and afterwards) who were quick to draw their six shooter to settle disputes.

####Cool as Ice####
Johnny Van Owen is a rapper who drifts from city to city. Johnny is performing at a nightclub, rapping and dancing with his crew and a club background singer playing "Cool as Ice (Everybody Get Loose)".

While the group passes through a small town, Johnny falls for honor student Kathy Winslow. The crew is stranded in the town after a member's motorcycle breaks down and has to be left at a local repair shop. While waiting for repairs, Johnny uses the opportunity to see Kathy. She already has a boyfriend named Nick, whom he advises Kathy to dump.

Johnny shows up with his crew at a local club frequented by Kathy and her friends. Noticing that no one was enjoying the live music playing at the club, Johnny and the crew decide to perform a musical number, "People's Choice", by unplugging the other band's instruments and taking control, shocking the audience and ending with Johnny sweeping Kathy off her feet, humiliating Nick.

He offers to forgive Kathy and take her home, but she refuses and walks home by herself. Unbeknownst to Kathy, she is stalked by two strange men in a car. She is saved by Johnny, who takes her home. At the club's parking lot, a jealous Nick and his friends smash up motorcycles belonging to Johnny's friends. Nick's friends attack the rapping biker who fights back, leaving Nick and his buddies unconscious and Nick himself in the hospital with a broken nose.

Kathy's father, Gordon, becomes suspicious of Johnny, and warns Kathy to stay away from him because they can't trust strangers. The next day, Kathy goes for a ride with Johnny against her father's wishes. They ride all over town, including a construction site. When they finally return home, they are greeted by an angry Gordon, who coldly warns Johnny to stay away from his daughter.

Gordon, under pressure from his wife Grace, reveals to Kathy the secret of his past—he was once a police officer. They were on the run from two corrupt cops and were able to escape using fabricated documents, explaining why he kept his life a secret from Kathy all these years. Kathy criticizes her father, saying it was not fair that he lied to her in order to protect her, yet refuses to permit her to see a total stranger.

The next day, Johnny agrees to give Tommy, Kathy's younger brother, a ride on his bike. They cruise through the streets, and finally back to the Winslow home, where Tommy is later kidnapped. At the repair shop, the crew prepares to leave town since the bike has been repaired, but they tell Johnny to say goodbye to Kathy. When Johnny arrives at the Winslow house, he finds an envelope meant for the family. It turns out to be a message from the crooked cops with Tommy recording it. Fearing the worst, Gordon accuses Johnny of criminal involvement, much to Kathy's dismay.

When Kathy asks Johnny to play the tape left behind by the kidnappers, he hears a loud clanging noise from a construction vehicle, revealing the message was recorded at the construction site. The gang ambushes the kidnappers and rescues Tommy. When the police arrive, the gang return Tommy to the Winslows, and Gordon apologizes to Johnny. The rapper tells Kathy he has to move on, but she decides to follow him. Nick arrives in his car, telling Kathy to get used to being a biker chick because she will never see him again. Kathy holds on as Johnny uses the car as a ramp and the two new lovers ride off into the big city.

The film ends with Johnny reaching his destination, rapping "Get Wit It" and dancing with his crew to an audience at a nightclub. Kathy joins him on stage after the show is over, dancing alone in the spotlight.

####The Covered Wagon####
The action is set in 1848. Two caravans of expatriates unite in Kansas and travel 2,000 miles west to start a new life in Oregon. The leader of the settlers is the elderly father and natural authority, Wingate. Scouts are the headstrong Sam Woodhull and the kind-hearted, talented Will Banion. Banion has a secret around a crime he is said to have committed in the army.

Along the way, the pioneers suffer a number of hardships such as hunger and bad weather. In addition, Sam Woodhull embroil the settlers in clashes with Indians, and later aroused "gold fever" in some of the pilgrims when news of gold discoveries In California reach the settlers. A dispute ensues, and many families leave the caravan to go to California.

Time and again Sam Woodhull causes problems. He gets involved with Will Banion in a power struggle for the leadership of the wagon train, and also for the favors of the young Molly Wingate. Fortunately, Banion is succored by his old friend William Jackson, but in the end he also leaves the train shortly before reaching Oregon to seek his fortune in California, as Molly's father forbids a connection with his daughter. Unlike many of the Forty-Niners who sought riches in the Golden State, Banion is successful and strikes it rich.

Woodhull, spurned by Molly because she loves Banion, wants to get rid of him in California. He plans to shoot Banion from ambush. Fortunately, Jackson watches the scene and in turn shoots Woodhull dead. With Jackson's news that Molly is expecting him in Oregon, Will Banion and his wealth head for Oregon, where he can finally take Molly into his arms.

####Cross Country Cruise####
Sue Fleming's suitcase opens by accident, dropping her clothes from a double-decker bus onto Norman Winthrop. She retrieves her belongings and enters the New York City bus terminal. Intrigued, he follows her and returns a garter belt she overlooked. Steve Borden, the man she is involved with, calls her on the phone (though he is also in the terminal) and tells her to buy a ticket to San Francisco. Afterward, she sees him with another woman. They board the bus too. Norman, who is supposed to go to San Francisco by train, decides to travel by bus instead. Murphy has orders from Norman's father to keep him away from women. To Murphy's satisfaction, Sue rebuffs Norman's initial attempts to become better acquainted.

May gives all her money to a friend, but manages to charm the bus driver, various relief drivers and Willy, a talkative, know-it-all passenger, into letting her ride for free.

When the bus stops in Poughkeepsie, Steve and Nita Borden prove to be con artists, selling bibles at inflated prices to those who have lost loved ones recently, claiming they were specially ordered by the deceased. Nita, suspecting what is going on, later chats with Sue and introduces her husband, Steve. A disgusted Sue breaks up with Steve.

She then makes a date with the persistent Norman at Niagara Falls. While Norman is getting ready, Murphy steals his clothes, but Norman goes with Sue to see the Falls wearing a raincoat provided by the tour company. When a tour employee demands the raincoat, Norman is shown to have only a bath towel on underneath. Norman arranges a candle-lit dinner for two in Chicago, but Murphy invites all the other passengers. When the bus later has engine trouble, the passengers go to a nearby carnival, where Norman challenges Sue to a bow and arrow contest; the prize, if he wins, is a kiss, but she proves to be a much better shot. Later, though, Sue finally lets him kiss her.

In Denver, Sue goes shopping in a department store. Steve takes her into a tent in the sporting goods department and tries to get her back, but she turns him down. Nita finds them together. Sue tells her that she is through with Steve, but Nita does not believe her. After Sue leaves, Nita informs Steve that she is going to tell the police all about his scams, so he kills her with a bow and arrow. It is nearly closing time, so he is able to conceal the corpse in a window display as a mannequin.

Back on the bus, Steve claims his wife is visiting friends in Denver. Then he tells Norman that Sue broke off their engagement. Norman believes him.

When Nita's body is discovered, the police stop the bus and question Steve. Sue states she left after Nita found the two of them in the store, but Steve claims that it was he who left. When Sue's archery skills are revealed, she is taken into custody. However, Norman is able to cast suspicion on Steve too. The police decide to take everyone to Reno, but as they start to board the bus, Steve suddenly forces the driver at gunpoint to speed away, with Sue as the only other passenger. Then Steve takes the wheel and makes the driver jump off. Norman and the police land an airplane on the road ahead of the bus. Steve dies after crashing into it, but Sue is all right.

When the bus reaches San Francisco, May and Willy prepare to get married, but he is arrested for bigamy. Norman and Murphy head to a lumber camp in Washington state, where Norman and Sue (and Murphy and May) pair off.

####Decameron Nights####
In the mid-fourteenth century, Boccaccio seeks his true love, the recently widowed Fiametta (Joan Fontaine), and finds that she has fled Florence, plague-ridden and being sacked by an invading army, for a villa in the countryside with several female companions. When he shows up, Fiametta does not want to invite him to stay, but her friends, bored and lacking male companionship, override her. To entertain the ladies (and further his courtship of Fiametta), Boccaccio tells stories of the pursuit of love.

Bartolomea (Fontaine) is frustrated by her marriage to the wealthy, much older Ricciardo (Godfrey Tearle). The latter's strong belief in astrology dictates how they live. One day, the stars are favorable for fishing, but pirates capture the ladies. Their captain, Paganino (Jourdan), releases all but Bartolomea. He demand a 50,000 gold florin ransom to be paid at Majorca. By the time Ricciardo shows up, however, Bartolomea has fallen in love with the pirate. She denies knowing Ricciardo and, when he is unable to answer a simple question about her, Paganino's friend, the Governor of Majorca (Eliot Makeham), orders Ricciardo to pay a fine for his lies: 50,000 florins. Paganino and Bartolomea get married, and he promises to give up piracy.

Fiametta is not amused by the "moral" of the story, but the others beg Boccaccio for another. Instead, Fiametta decides to recount a more uplifting tale, to her friends' disappointment.

Giulio (Jourdan) goads Bernabo (Tearle) into betting on the virtue of his wife Ginevra (Fontaine). Giulio wagers that he can seduce Ginevra within a month. However, Giulio merely bribes the woman's maid Nerina (Binnie Barnes) into letting him hide in her mistress's bedchamber. Later, while Ginevra sleeps, he steals her locket and cuts off a lock of her hair, noticing as he does so a birthmark on her shoulder. When Giulio provides all three as "proof", Bernabo pays up. He then recruits two assassins to do away with his wife. The killers are discomfited by Ginevra's lack of fear and let her go.

She disguises herself as a man and becomes a sailor on a merchant ship. A potential customer, the Sultan (Meinhart Maur), becomes fascinated by Ginevra's pet talking parrot and agrees to buy the merchant's wares if he can also have the bird. Since the parrot will only speak for Ginevra, she agrees to enter the Sultan's service.

Then one day, she spots her locket in a marketplace stall manned by Giulio. Still in disguise, she coaxes the story out of him and finally learns why her husband wanted her dead. She has the Sultan invite both Giulio and Bernabo to dinner. Later, with Bernabo within earshot but out of sight, she appears dressed as a woman and asks Giulio if he knows her. When he repeatedly denies it, she is vindicated, and reunited with her husband.

Boccaccio does not like the tale, and starts another.

Spanish Don Bertrando (Jourdan) is sent to fetch a female doctor, Isabella (Fontaine), for his master, the seriously ill King (Hugh Morton). On the trip, he defends her from two highwaymen.

When she cures the King, he offers her anything. She asks for a husband: Bertrando. Dismayed, Bertrando agrees, but immediately after their wedding, he leaves her - having fulfilled his promise - and resumes his playboy ways. Before departing, he tells her that he will only live with her if she obtains the ring on his finger and bears him a child.

Learning that Bertrando is trying to seduce an innkeeper's daughter, Maria (Joan Collins), Isabella has the innkeeper send Bertrando a message supposedly from Maria agreeing to spend the night with him. Instead, Isabella keeps the rendezvous in the dark, unlit bedroom. She later steals Bertrando's ring while he is sleeping and leaves before her deception is revealed. Months later, she gives birth to a son. Bertrando shows up, having heard that she claims the child is his. After she tells her story, Bertrando embraces her.

When Fiametta is again critical of Boccaccio's story, he gives up and leaves. However, he returns, takes Fiametta in his arms, and kisses her. She resists at first, then gives in.

####The Delightful Rogue####
Lastro is a modern-day pirate who hijacks a yacht and heads into the tropic port of Tapit.  He is wanted for a variety of offenses, including murder and robbery.  Upon his arrival, he is recognized by a local native leader, Junipero, but Junipero takes a bribe to not turn him in.  While in Tapit, he sees an American dancer, Nydra, whom he is immediately attracted to.  Nydra is also being pursued by Harry Beall, the heir to a wealthy American family, yet Nydra is intrigued by Lastro's self-assurance and audacity.

Lastro is betrayed by Junipero, who brings the police to arrest him.  In the ensuing melee, Lastro overcomes both Junipero and the police, as well as easily brushing aside Beall.  To secure his safe escape, Lastro takes Beall as a hostage back to his yacht.  Nydra appears to beg Lastro to let Beall go, which Lastro agrees to, on one condition: Nydra must spend the night with him in his cabin aboard the yacht.  Nydra agrees.  Nothing untoward happens, with the two simply spending the time talking and getting to know each other.  Nydra is impressed with Lastro's gallantry.  However, Beall has spent the night imagining the worst, and his jealous reactions in the morning completely turn Nydra off.  Disgusted with his behavior, Nydra sets sails with Lastro.

####A Demon for Trouble####
Having been wrongly accused of the murder of Buck Morton (Nick Stuart), Bob Worth (Bob Steele) is now on the run from the sheriff (Lafe McKee). With the help of outlaw Gallinda (Don Alvarado), Bob must somehow prove that the real culprit is real estate mogul Dyer (Walter McGrail).

####Dragonfly####
Joe and Emily Darrow are doctors in a Chicago hospital. Seven months pregnant Emily travels to Venezuela to help natives in the Amazon area. She dies when a bus is hit by a landslide and plunges into the river below. Her body is never found by the local authorities.

Without taking time to grieve Joe returns to work. One night he is awakened by his wife's dragonfly paper weight that falls and rolls across the room. His wife always had a passion for dragonflies and even had a birthmark on her shoulder which resembled a dragonfly. Joe starts visiting Emily's patients at the pediatric oncology unit in the hospital. One of his wife's patients is brought in unconscious. Joe hears the child calling his name and follows the staff who are trying to revive him without success - the child's heart flatlines. As Joe approaches the child, suddenly the heart begins beating again.

The following afternoon Joe returns to the child who asks him if he is "Emily's Joe" and tells him she sent him back to tell Joe something. All over the room are drawings of a curvy cross, but the boy doesn't know what the symbol means. The boy tells about his near death experience, that he saw a light, and a woman showing him an image of Joe, and that the cross symbol was what he saw at the end of the rainbow.  Later, while passing by another child's room, Joe sees the same drawing. That boy immediately knows who Joe is and tells him that he must "go to the rainbow".

When Joe arrives at home, his parrot mysteriously goes into a rage, breaking a pot and making the same wavy cross symbol drawn in the spilled soil on the floor. Joe spots a dragonfly flying outside the window, and briefly sees Emily reaching for him outside that same window. Joe's neighbour, Miriam Belmont, tries to talk him back into reality. Instead, he goes to Sister Madeline, a controversial nun who investigated near-death experiences. Sister Madeline advises Joe that Emily is indeed trying to contact him from the other side.

The breaking point occurs at the hospital when Joe is alone with a clinically dead patient. Joe hears his wife speaking through the patient, calling his name, but no one believes him. He decides to sell his home and go on vacation. While packing away his wife's belongings, the lightbulb in the room burns out. When he returns with a new bulb, all the belongings he had packed away are suddenly back in their original places. He enters his kitchen where a map has blown open, showing the mysterious curvy cross symbol at several places. He learns from a friend that the wiggly cross is the map symbol for a waterfall. Joe remembers and finds a photo of his wife posing in front of a waterfall with a rainbow behind her.

He takes a trip to the South American area where his wife died. Joe's pilot, Victor, takes him to the victims' graves near a tribe village. Joe shows the photo of his wife and asks his native guides if they know where his wife is buried. They start arguing with each other that he should be brought to the village. Joe's attention then shifts to the village and he runs off to it. He comes to a cliff and sees the bus far down below in the water. Joe jumps into the river and enters the semi-flooded bus, causing the bus to shift and become completely submerged. Joe is trapped inside but calms down when a bright glow fills the bus and his wife appears to him, reaching for his hand. The events of her final hours flash before him, showing she survived the initial accident and was pulled to safety by nearby Yanomami villagers. He is then suddenly rescued from the bus by Victor.

Joe runs to the village and is surrounded by angry native men with weapons. He holds up a photo of his wife. A native woman tells him they couldn't save her body but they saved her soul. Perplexed, he follows her into one of the huts, and inside is a female infant in a basket, the child his wife was carrying, who survived the accident. The woman shows him a birthmark on the child in the shape of a dragonfly. As he embraces his daughter he realizes what his wife was trying to tell him.

The film finishes with Joe playing with his daughter, now a toddler with wavy blonde hair, the very image of his wife.

####Dreams of Glass####
Ann is the owner of a famous nursery and greenhouse from the Japanese family. Tom is from a blue-collar family of self-employed fishermen. They make a relationship, despite obstacles their families get in their way.

####The Fabulous Baker Boys####
The Fabulous Baker Boys are a piano duo consisting of brothers Jack and Frank Baker. For 15 years, they have been performing show tunes in bars and lounges throughout Seattle, Washington on a pair of matching grand pianos. While Frank dutifully serves as the duo's manager, Jack has grown weary of the hackneyed material they have come to perform over the years, but his complacency leaves him uninspired to pursue his talents further. Apart from occasionally playing the music he enjoys at a local jazz club, Jack's personal life largely consists of meaningless one-night stands; caring for his aging Labrador, Eddie; and spending time with Nina, a lonely girl from his apartment building whose single mother neglects her in favor of romantic pursuits.

Concerned about a sudden decrease in stable gigs and loss of income, Frank decides to hire a female singer to revive interest in their act. After auditioning several unsuccessful candidates, they meet Susie Diamond, a former escort who demands an audition despite being several minutes late. Although initially at odds with Frank over her boldness and unprofessionalism, Susie impresses both brothers with her audition, and they hire her. Their debut performance as a trio is flawed but ultimately well-received, and the rebranded act gradually receives better gigs and higher salaries in return.

The now in-demand trio is booked for an extended engagement at a luxurious resort. Jack and Susie flirt with each other cautiously in-between gigs, but neither acts upon their feelings. Noticing a growing attraction between them, Frank forbids Jack from pursuing Susie in fear that a relationship between the two would compromise the group's stability and newfound success. Frank returns to Seattle prematurely when one of his children suffers a minor injury. Taking advantage of his absence to contemporize their setlist, Susie and Jack deliver a sultry performance of "Makin' Whoopee" during the hotel's New Year's Eve festivities, after which they finally succumb to their feelings and sleep together. Susie opens up to Jack about her past as an escort, but Jack remains emotionally distant.

When the couple returns to Seattle, Frank quickly deduces that Jack and Susie have slept with each other; tensions arise when both rebel against Frank's creative control and song choices. After spending another night with Jack, Susie tells him she has received a lucrative job offer to record television jingles for cat food, which would require her to leave the group. Jack is quietly heartbroken that Susie would even consider leaving but refuses to admit how he truly feels, instead acting as though her departure is of no concern to him. Susie accepts the job after a final performance with The Fabulous Baker Boys, and the two part ways following a heated argument in which Susie accuses Jack of being a coward in his pursuits of both her and his career.

Jack and Frank quarrel about the increasingly humiliating gigs Frank has been booking them due to Susie's departure, which Frank blames Jack for. After nearly breaking Frank's hand during a physical altercation, Jack quits the band. He takes his frustrations out on Nina upon returning home but apologizes soon afterward, learning she will rely on him less once her mother marries her newest boyfriend. Now prepared to venture out on his own, Jack visits Frank to make amends. Having opted to offer piano lessons from his home, Frank accepts Jack's decision to pursue a solo career and explains he thought he was helping his younger brother live a carefree life, of which he was sometimes jealous. They reminisce about the early days of their act with a final duet.

Jack visits Susie, who is not particularly enjoying her new job, and expresses regret about his behavior towards her. Susie is not quite ready to resume their relationship but the two part as friends, with Jack telling her he has a feeling they will see each other again. Jack watches as Susie walks off to her new job until she is nearly out of sight.

####The Fare####
A cab drives through the night road to pick up a passenger. The cab driver, Harris Caron, is listening to a radio show about time-traveling aliens who changed the nature of reality. A charming young passenger calling herself Penny gets into his cab and asks to go to the corner of River and Elm. The car moves along a deserted dark highway, and Harris and Penny have a mildly flirtatious conversation. Suddenly, she disappears from the back seat of the car, leaving no trace. Bewildered, Harris contacts dispatch. The Dispatcher says he does not know what to do about a vanishing passenger and that Harris should just reset his fare and return to the city. Harris resets the odometer, and the prior events occur again more or less as they had before, though without Penny giving her name. The car crashes, and the barrier between the seats breaks. Harris grabs Penny's hand and asks if she is all right, calling her Penny. Penny says he used her name this time though she had not given it and tells Harris to remember her this time before she disappears.

Harris again resets the meter, and the events occur again, this time with Harris having vague recollections of prior details. He realizes he has picked up Penny before. Penny, relieved, tells him the ride has occurred at least a hundred times, with Harris never remembering anything, suggesting they are trapped in a time loop that always ends with Penny disappearing and repeating the events. Through subsequent trips, their conversation grows more intimate. Penny, despite making up many humorous stories about her career during past rides, explains she is really in horticulture, which fits her floral attire and accessories. Harris explains he is a taxi driver because his father was, though he hates the job and felt his father wasted his life doing the task and he is doing the same. Penny is sympathetic but says she sees nobility in taking people to their destinations. She also feels trapped by her unhappy arranged marriage. Harris once had a girlfriend whom he met via a taxi ride, but the relationship had ended badly when she left him.

Countless loops later, after Penny's disappearance, Harris decides to look for her. He does not reset his meter and drives down a different road, despite voices whispering to him to turn back. He eventually reaches a bright light where a dark figure demands he turn around. Harris resets his meter. He is still visibly upset when he picks up Penny again, and she comforts him, leading to them making love. Afterward, Harris notices a scar on Penny's head from when she hit her head in the car crash. The scar is old and Harris realizes they are not in a time loop but that time is actually passing. Penny is unable to answer his questions, but tells him to not drink his water before she disappears again.

Harris does not drink his water and picks up a new passenger, an elderly man who asks to go to River and Elm. As he drives, Harris' memory of his old girlfriend return. The girl he had picked up in his taxi cab was in fact Penny, and they had spent a romantic summer together before she left suddenly. Harris subsequently died in a car crash. Harris takes the old man to River and Elm, a desolate place, and the old man pays him with a gold coin, like many other similar gold coins Harris finds in his cab. The Dispatcher calls to check in and tells Harris to get back to his job. Harris asks what is his job.

The Dispatcher explains that Harris is his ferryman, a punishment given to him after his and Penny's relationship. The Dispatcher is Death, and Penny, who is actually Persephone, is his wife. Death had taken away Harris' memory of Penny, and Penny had provided water to erase his memory of his job. Harris had been unaware of years passing, only aware of when he drove Penny, something that happened yearly as she returned to the underworld.

Harris continues his job and drives many different souls to the afterlife. After a year, it is again time to pick up Penny. She apologizes for everything and implores him to drink the water again for his own sake, but Harris says he has found nobility in his task and that he is grateful for their brief time each year to be together. He drops her off, and they express their feelings for each other before he drives away.

####Fascination####
Young Scott Doherty gets suspicious when his mother plans to wed Oliver Vance soon after her husband's untimely death. Scott investigates with Oliver's pretty daughter, Kelly, who shared Scott's doubts about the upcoming nuptials. Along the way, he falls in love with Kelly, but a fatal explosion turns Scott's life upside down - and the evidence points to him as the murderer. Has he been framed?

####The Flaming Crisis####
A young black newspaperman is convicted of murder on circumstantial evidence and sentenced to prison. He escapes and makes his way to the southwestern cattle country, where he falls in love with Tex Miller, a beautiful cowgirl. Having rid the territory of an outlaw band, he gives himself up to the law, thinking that he will be sent back to prison. After discovering that the real murderer has confessed, he returns to Tex and the country he has come to love.

####Fool's Paradise####
As described in a film magazine, Arthur Phelps (Nagel) has been injured during World War I and while in a French had become dazzled by the beauty of French dancer Rosa Duchene (Harris). Back in the United States in an oil town along the Mexican boarder, Arthur meets American dancer Poll Patchouli (Dalton) in a Mexican cantina, and she falls in love with him. Rosa and her troupe are billed for a show in the local theater and while Arthur is waiting at the stage door to see his charmer, he lights a cigar that had been given to him by Poll. The cigar is of the trick kind, and the explosion that follows so injures Arthur's eyes that later while sitting in the theater watching the young French woman dance he becomes blind. Later Arthur wanders into the cantina while Poll is doing an impression of the French woman. Realizing that she has caused the blindness of the man she loves, Poll passes herself off as the French woman, imitating her voice and accent so perfectly that Arthur is deceived, and they are later married. They both live happily until Poll learns of the coming of a great eye specialist who could restore Arthur's sight. She takes him to the physician who restores his sight, and then Arthur leaves Poll and starts a search for Rosa. He finally tracks her down in Siam. After an incident there, Arthur realizes that it is Poll that he loves, and he returns to the Mexican boarder town in time to rescue Poll from the proprietor of the cantina, John Roderiguez (Kosloff). Arthur and Poll are remarried for the resulting happy ending.

####Gentle Annie####
A frontierswoman turns her family into a band of bank robbers.

####Girl of the Port####
Jim, a British lord, suffers from a pyrophobia that he developed during the war. Unable to cope with his condition, he flees civilization, coming to rest in the island paradise of Suva in Fiji. As he is attempting to drink himself into forgetfulness, he meets Josie, a showgirl stranded on the island. Josie's friend Kalita convinced the owner of the bar to hire Josie. As Jim and Josie develop a liking for one another, local heavy McEwen becomes jealous.

When McEwen challenges Jim to a fight, Jim demurs, causing those around him to believe that he has a cowardly streak, but Josie continues to believe in him. McEwen intensifies his animosity toward Jim, taunting him into following McEwen to the nearby island of Benga, where McEwen intends to force Jim to participate in the local custom of firewalking. Jim, forced to confront his fear, overcomes it and passes through the fire pit. He then defeats McEwen in a fight and ends up with Josie.

####Girls' Dormitory####
Set in the fictional Montreaux School for Girls in Switzerland, the main focus of the film is Dr. Stephen Dominick, the school's popular director who is secretly admired by teacher Professor Anna Mathe and the 19-year-old French student Marie Claudel. At a state fair, the girls draw lots to see who gets to ask Dr. Dominick for a dance. Marie wins and nervously asks Dr. Dominick. Because he thinks it is inappropriate to dance with a student, he refuses, causing Marie to burst out in tears and run away. Thereby, she is late for the bus, returning to the boarding school.

A week later, Professor Augusta Wimmer, a strict, unlikable woman, goes through the personal belongings of her students and finds a discarded love letter. Dr. Dominick and Professor Mathe are assigned to find out who wrote the letter, and conclude Marie is responsible due to the handwriting. Upon confronting her, she denies having written the letter, fearing Dr. Dominick will find out about her crush on him. Some of the uptight, old-fashioned teachers, including Professor Wimmer, suspect that while she was gone at the fair, she visited the supposed boyfriend the letter was addressed to. Because the strict rules at the school include not being allowed to date, Marie risks being suspended two days before graduation.

In tears, Marie admits to Professor Mathe that she wrote the letter to Dr. Dominick. Anna doesn't tell Dr. Dominick this, but lets him know the girl is innocent. They both sympathise with her and try to prevent further punishment. But the other teachers persist with their persecution and insist that her mother is summoned.

Desperate, Marie decides to run away, into a storm. Dr Dominick pursues her, and manages to catch up with her at some remote mountain hut. There, he fetches blankets for her and as he sits by her, she confesses her feelings for him. He admits to returning them. The next day, back at school, he proposes marriage and she accepts.

Shortly afterwards Marie overhears a conversation in which Professor Mathe admits to being in love with Dr. Dominick and that she will leave the school because she is heartbroken. Trying to prevent this, Marie lies to Dr. Dominick by saying that she lied to him about being in love with him, claiming that she only told him she loved him so she would be able to graduate.

Soon after graduation, Marie is about to be driven back home by her cousin Vallais from a nightclub where they were having a small celebration party, when she is suddenly visited by Dr. Dominick. He tells her he could never fall in love with Anna, after which they kiss.

####The Go Getter####
When the US Navy rigid airship "Macon" is damaged in a storm and crashes into the water (as the real USS|Macon|ZRS-5|6 did in 1935), helmsman Bill Austin stays with his commanding officer until the rest of the crew has gotten safely away. Bill loses a leg as a result of the crash and leaves the Navy.

He goes looking for employment, but jobs are scarce in San Francisco. He tries a lumber company run by Lloyd Skinner, interrupting a meeting between Skinner and his fiancee Margaret Ricks. Skinner orders him to leave his office. Matt Peasely, head of a shipping firm in the same building, is more polite, but the answer is still the same. Undeterred, Bill seeks out Cappy Ricks, the retired founder of both companies.

While waiting in the reception area, he encounters Margaret again. He assumes she is also a job seeker and makes a date with her, unaware she is Cappy's only offspring. She sees her father first, and asks him to give Bill a chance. Cappy, who is frustrated with the way Skinner and Peasely have been running the businesses he built up, is quite willing to countermand them. He and Skinner decide to give Bill the hardest task they can think of: selling a half million feet of unwanted skunk spruce Cappy bought years ago as a favor to a friend. Not only does Bill sell all of the spruce, he also generates orders for all of the lumber the company has and more, all in a single business trip across the western United States, forcing Cappy to send him to Seattle to buy the shortfall from a hard-negotiating competitor.

Meanwhile, Bill and Margaret fall in love. With his commission from his trip, he buys an engagement ring. When he tells Cappy of his plans, however, the widowed Cappy is adamantly opposed to losing Margaret's company. He and Skinner go ahead with the "blue vase" test, a test everybody has failed, including Skinner. Cappy telephones Bill and tells him he saw a vase he liked, but could not spare the time to purchase it. He gives Bill instructions to buy it whatever the cost and bring it to him at the railway station by eight o'clock. Cappy and Skinner have pre-arranged all sorts of obstacles to make the task impossible, but Bill overcomes them all, and by hocking Margaret's ring to help pay the $1000 price of the vase and persuading a Navy pilot friend (on his honeymoon night, no less) to fly him ahead of the already departed train, he succeeds. Cappy is so impressed, he offers Bill a promotion to manager of his Shanghai office.

When Bill insists on marrying Margaret immediately so she can accompany him, Cappy does his best to stop him. He buys up all the staterooms in the ship Bill is to take, but Bill and Margaret get married and manage to sneak aboard the ship anyway. Then Cappy receives word that his men have gone on strike, and they trust and will only negotiate with Bill. Cappy sends him an urgent radiogram. When the captain of the ship refuses Bill's request to turn around, Bill jumps overboard. Margaret follows him, and the captain drops a lifeboat. Cappy finds them rowing back to land.

Bill negotiates an end to the strike, and Cappy decides to send Skinner to Shanghai instead. For Cappy's sake, the couple agree to live in his mansion.

####Graustark####
As described in a film magazine reviews, Princess Yetive meets Lorry while she is traveling in America under an assumed name. She leaves him in New York City when a friend, Prince Gabriel, tells her that her father is dying. Having received no message of good-bye, Lorry is concerned about her; and starts out to find her. In Graustark, when the American Ambassador takes him to a court ball, he recognizes the young woman as the Princess. It develops that her father was not dying, but that Gabriel had used the message as a ruse to get her to return to Graustark and marry him. Yetive secretly meets Lorry, but they are spied upon. A conspirator, Dangloss, attempts to stab Lorry. Lorry shoots Dangloss and is then arrested and sentenced to death. Yetive aids Lorry's escape in a motor car. Gabriel captures them, but the Princess promises Gabriel that she will return to marry him if he will let Lorry escape. Lorry finds Dangloss in a town tavern and realizes he had been shamming his death. He binds him and returns to the palace in time to stop the wedding and claims Yetive. Dangloss confesses that Gabriel was responsible for the plot against Princess Yetive and Lorry.

####Hearts Adrift####
Nina (Mary Pickford) and Jack Graham (Harold Lockwood) are both marooned on a deserted island. They fall in love and eventually Nina gives birth to a child. Despite being stranded, they are very happy together. One day, Jack's wife comes to rescue him. Nina is crushed and throws herself in a volcano.

####Her Purchase Price####
As described in a film magazine, Sir Derek Anstruther (Roscoe) while touring Egypt meets the slave Sheka (Barriscale), who looks European. He learns that she has been reared by a native bandit since the massacre of her mother's caravan in the desert. He falls in love with her. When she is offered for sale on the slave block, he outbids the natives and George Vincent (Wheatcroft), a scion of a wealthy family. Sir Derek marries her and takes her back to England as his wife. George with the aid of Diana Vane, who had hoped to win Sir Derek's title, promote discord in the Anstruther household. Pressed for money, Sir Derek says he would trade anything for 10,000 pounds. Sheka goes to sell herself to a notorious roue who has made advances towards her, and Sir Derek learns of her intentions and follows. When he arrives they discover that the roue has cleared up the mystery of Sheka's parentage, and that she is his heir. Sheka happily returns with Sir Derek.

####High School Lover####
After Kelly Winters, a 17-year-old high school senior, falls in love with Christian Booth, a famous actor who is 9 years older than her, after she snuck into a private Hollywood party at an underground club, her father; Rick (also a cinematographer) tries to intervene before the crush turns into a dangerous obsession.

####Hollywood Stadium Mystery####
A rivalry develops between a district attorney named Devons, who finds murder mysteries amusing but amateurish, and Pauline Ward, a crime novelist. They play tricks on one another, attempting to prove their point over how to solve a crime.

One night before a prizefight, when the lights are momentarily dimmed, a boxer is suddenly killed in the ring. The only clue Devons and Ward have is a tune that a man was whistling. The police detain every spectator from ringside, considering them all as suspects, including Edna Mayberry, a woman who had an involvement with the dead fighter. Pauline is threatened in a dressing room before the case is solved.

####I Take This Woman####
After causing yet another scandal, Kay Dowling (Carole Lombard), the spoiled daughter of wealthy New Yorkers, is given a stark choice by her fed-up father (Charles Trowbridge): go to his ranch in Ursula, Wyoming, (to avoid being named a co-respondent in a divorce case) or be disinherited. Kay's fiance, Herbert Forrest (Lester Vail), proposes getting married immediately, but she chooses the ranch.

Later, while spending her days on the ranch with her good-humored aunt Bessie, Kay falls reluctantly in love with one of her father's cowhands, Tom McNair (Gary Cooper), and impulsively marries him. When her father learns of the union, he disowns her. Kay and Tom are forced to live in a one-room shack while Tom tries to expand his cattle herd.

One year later, Kay is unhappy with life on the ranch, and longs for the comforts of her family's palatial mansion. One day, she receives a telegram from home, and tells Tom that her father is sick and that she must be with him. Back in New York, Kay writes a letter to Tom, asking for a divorce. Soon after, Tom arrives at the estate and explains that he left the ranch to become a professional bronco rider in a rodeo. Kay assumes that he never received the letter, and Tom never mentions it. One night during a party, Tom overhears the guests making fun of him and he confronts Kay, telling her that he *did* receive her letter, and made the trip to determine whether or not she still loved him. Satisfied with what he has learned, he tells her she can have her divorce. Later, as she realizes that life with Herbert would amount to a life of playing golf, Kay visits Tom at the rodeo. During his performance, he is thrown from a bronco and hurt. Kay rushes to Tom's side, and the two reconcile and decide to return to the ranch.

####I'll Give a Million####
In the south of France, wealthy American businessman Tony Newlander is fed up with life. It seems everyone is friendly with him only because of his money or influence, including his ex-wife Cecilia and his valet.

While on his yacht, he spots Louie, a tramp drowning in the water. Unable to attract the crew's attention over the sound of the ship's whistle, Tony jumps in to rescue him. The yacht sails away, so Tony drags a strangely uncooperative Louie ashore. It turns out that Louie was trying to commit suicide. However, since he has been saved, he desists from trying again. Louie takes him to his shack on the beach.

The next morning, the tramp discovers that Tony has taken Louie's clothes and left his tuxedo and money behind in exchange. Louie dresses up in his new finery and goes to a cafe for breakfast. The proprietor thinks he stole the money he flashes. Louie insists that an eccentric millionaire, dressed like a tramp, gave him a million francs and will do the same to anyone who is kind to him in his disguise. A reporter publishes his story, and soon everyone is being extra generous to anybody who looks down on his luck.

Meanwhile, Tony encounters a mischievous chimpanzee named Darwin. Jean Hofmann, a performer at the Circus Primerose, enlists Tony to capture Darwin. The chimp indulges in a favorite pastime, setting off a fire alarm. Tony is blamed for the rash of phony alarms, taken into custody and sentenced to ten days in jail. However, after the judge reads the newspaper article, he lets Tony go.

Tony flips a borrowed coin, which sends him to the circus. Jean gets Anatole Primerose, the proprietor, to give him a job as a relief night watchman.

Meanwhile, tramps flood the region to take advantage of the situation. Soon there are complaints, and the newspaper editor is pressured to either produce the millionaire or retract the story. He in turn threatens to accuse Louie of murdering the millionaire and stealing his money and gives him one last chance to find the man. The police round up all the tramps in town for Louie to look over.

Tony and Jean start falling in love, but to stop Max, the jealous son of the proprietor, from getting Tony fired, Jean lies (so she thinks) and tells him she is being friendly to Tony only because he is the millionaire. Unfortunately, Tony overhears her.

To save himself from a possible charge of murder, Louie identifies a tramp at random as the millionaire: Kopelpeck. Disillusioned, Tony decides to end the charade and expose the imposter, but no one will believe him. In fact, he is thrown in jail for making a nuisance of himself. Jean bails him out. Then Tony discovers that Jean does not believe he is the millionaire. His identity is finally confirmed by the captain of his yacht and others. The public surrounds the police station, demanding to be compensated for their misguided efforts. To prevent a riot, Tony agrees to donate half a million to the poor and the same amount to the city, but only if Jean will marry him. She holds out for a while, but then gives in.

####Immortally Yours####
During a night at the opera, Estelle Henderson is embarrassed by her drunken fiancé, John, but also attracted by a dark and mysterious young man in the audience. After the performance, John attacks Estelle's father, Dr. George Henderson, but is stopped by the young man, who introduces himself as Alex Stone. Alex and Estelle go out for dinner and fall in love.

As it turns out, Alex is part of a vampire coven. Questioned by his fellow vampires, he reveals that he his tired of the emptiness of being a savage beast living in eternal darkness. Seeking help from Estelle's father, a famous medical research scientist, Alex confides in Estelle, explaining that he is a vampire but would prefer a mortal life with her. When approached, Dr. Henderson is incredulous at first but then is very interested in working with a vampire as this could further his research into immortality.

However, Henderson's research is funded by Victor Price, head of the Illuminati, a multi-national crime syndicate, who hope to attain immortality through that research. Meanwhile, they are harvesting people for spare body parts. Through an informer, Price learns of Alex's case and allows Henderson's research to continue if Alex would in turn make him a vampire. Though Dr. Henderson unlocks the secret behind Alex's vampirism, Alex refuses to provide Price with immortality. He informs the Hendersons of Price's association with the Illuminati but then agrees to Estelle's enigmatic suggestion to "take advantage" of the Illuminati's power.

Meanwhile, Alex's fellow vampires are lacking Alex's power to make the group disappear, have to contend with Marshall Pope, a vampire hunter working for Interpol who has been brought after the police discovered the existence of vampire attacks. With his help, the police manage to kill the other vampires, who are lacking Alex's power, though Pope is also killed. The police have also arrested one of Price's henchmen, Rex, in a failed drug trafficking operation. In a bargain, Rex reveals Price's role in the operation, prompting the police to put Price under surveillance.

At the same time, Price and his associates receive the promised treatment and return to their mansion, taking Estelle with them. One of Price's henchman, Steven Mills, tries to stake Alex but is overpowered. Henderson and Alex rush to the mansion, where Price is showing all his power and wealth to Estelle in order to seduce her. Alex confronts Price and, as the police storm in, uses his powers of disappearance to vanish together with the Illuminati-turned-vampires. As the bystanders are looking on in bewilderment, the film shows Alex leaving the Illuminati to spend their eternal lifer in outer space, as he returns to earth.

Over a year later, a news reporter notes the Hendersons' acquittal in the "Illuminati trial", the unexplained disappearance of the Illuminati and their money, a rapid drop in crime and the absence of further sightings of vampires. The final scenes reveal that Estelle has pilfered the Illuminati accounts and donated the money to a charitable cause and now lives with non-vampiric Alex in a large house.

####In Search of Fellini####
A shy small-town Ohio girl who loves movies but dislikes reality, discovers the delightfully bizarre films of Federico Fellini, and sets off on a strange, beautiful journey across Italy to find him.

####In the French Style####
The young American student Christina James (Jean Seberg) comes to Paris to live in the art scene. After six months in Paris, she meets sixteen-year-old Guy (Philippe Forquet) at a crowded gallery showing and their romance develops. Later, she enjoys encounters with European men. Her Chicago-based history professor father (Addison Powell) cautions her about fleeting love. She abandons a long-time attachment to a British international journalist (Stanley Baker) to marry the San Francisco, California, surgeon Dr. John Haislip (James Leo Herlihy).

####An Indian Love Story####
"An Indian Love Story" surrounds two couples who are in unhappy relationships. Two main characters, "Deerheart" and "Mona" (played by Mona Darkfeather), are partners. Another character, "Dove Eye", is in love with "Deerheart," even though "Eagle Wing" is hopelessly in love with her. A quadrangle is formed among the characters that are unhappy and dissatisfied with their relationships. The men fight for the women they desire through a series of events. "Deerheart" almost gets executed at the stake due to a misunderstanding by "Dove Eye"<nowiki/>'s father. "Dove Eye" decides that because of the encounter with her father, she was never fit for "Deerheart"<nowiki/>'s love. She then turns to "Eagle Wing". "Deerheart" is released and is returned to "Mona".

####Joey Breaker####
Joey Breaker is a successful talent agent who misses purpose in life. This changes gradually after he meets waitress and student nurse Cyan Worthington from Jamaica. Eventually, he quits his job and follows his heart to Jamaica where Cyan serves the population of her native district as a nurse with an independent practice.

####Kentucky Days####
As described in a film magazine review, in 1849, John Buckner, Kentuckian, goes West to the California goldfields and makes a fortune. Returning to Kentucky after a couple of years, he is convinced that his wife loves Gordon Carter and kills the latter in a duel. John heads  West again taking his wife Elizabeth with him, although they are still on bad terms. Elizabeth's unfailing courage during the many perils of the journey wins John's esteem. After he rescues her when she is lost in a sandstorm, they are completely reconciled.

####The King's Vacation####
Phillip (Arliss), the figurehead monarch of an unnamed country, is unharmed in an assassination attempt. In a conversation with his attempted murderer, Anderson, it becomes clear that the king's sympathies are with the downtrodden people. As unrest builds, Phillip abdicates to avoid bloodshed.

Phillip had come to the throne unexpectedly 18 years before, and had been forced to give up his commoner wife Helen (Gateson) and their infant daughter and marry Margaret (played by Arliss's real-life wife Florence). He is prepared to remain married, but Margaret (aware of his lost love) informs him that she too had someone she loved. She refuses to reveal the man's identity, referring to him only as "Mr. X". His conscience salved, he is free to seek out Helen.

He finds her wealthy and, in an ironic twist, she has made it clear to their daughter Millicent that she believes that Millicent's love, mechanic and inventor John Kent (Powell), is too far beneath her socially to marry. Phillip is favorably impressed by John, but is unable to persuade Helen to change her mind.

When Helen wants a tiara, Phillip reluctantly goes to purchase it (despite its resemblance to a crown). On the trip, he encounters Margaret and visits her. He is pleasantly surprised by many things he never knew about her, and misses the last train back to Helen's mansion. He sends a wire notifying Helen; she decides to attend a party anyway, escorted by longtime admirer Barstow. On the way back, Barstow informs her that, with the impending marriage, he is going away.

Meanwhile, the royalists are ready to seize back the country, with the army and navy at their side. However, Phillip refuses to participate.

When Barstow comes to bid Helen farewell for the last time, she is shocked, having believed he was only joking. Phillip sees that she is truly in love with Barstow, and suggests they call off the wedding. Then he goes to see Margaret. Having ascertained that she has received no visits from her supposed lost love (and suspecting that she made him up), he announces himself as "Mr. X".

####Lady and the Tramp####
On Christmas Day, Jim Dear gives his wife Darling, an American Cocker Spaniel puppy, whom she names Lady. Lady grows up and befriends the neighbors' dogs: elderly Bloodhound Trusty and feisty Scottish Terrier Jacqueline, AKA "Jock".

Meanwhile, a Schnauzer-mix named Tramp spends his days wandering the streets, stealing food and causing trouble for local dogcatcher Elliot, who has labeled Tramp "vicious" and become obsessed with catching him. After reluctantly freeing his friends Peg and Bull from Elliot's cart, Tramp hides from Elliot in Lady's neighborhood. Having been shooed away from Darling's baby shower by Darling's aunt Sarah and not realizing why her owners are neglecting her, Lady mistakes Tramp's voice for Trusty's and confides in him. Tramp deduces that Darling is pregnant, and warns Lady that "when a baby moves in, a dog moves out". Upon discovering Tramp's identity, Lady sends him away and dismisses his claims. After the baby girl Lulu is born, the couple becomes busier than ever and Lady begins to wonder if Tramp was right.

Later, Jim Dear and Darling leave for an extended visit to Jim Dear's sister and ask Aunt Sarah to dog-sit. While Aunt Sarah is upstairs, her two Devon Rex cats demolish the living room and pin the deed on Lady. Aunt Sarah immediately takes Lady to a pet store in order to buy a muzzle. Lady escapes into an alley, is confronted by vicious street dog Isaac. She is saved by Tramp.

The two dogs spend the rest of the day around the city, and have spaghetti and meatballs for dinner at Tony's Restaurant. Lady confesses she is doubtful whether her owners still want her, and Tramp reveals he once had owners, but was dumped after they had a child.

Their conversation is interrupted by Elliot, who accidentally captures Lady instead of Tramp, and brings her to the dog pound. Peg and Bull, once again captured, discuss Tramp's self-serving nature with Lady, causing her to question why he did not save her from Elliot. Fortunately, Jim Dear and Darling track Lady down at the pound and bring her home. When Sarah states that they should have Lady trained better next time upon her departure, Jim quotes to her "there won't be a next time". Jim and Darling allow Lady to bond with Lulu.

Learning that Peg and Bull have been adopted from the pound and regretful that he could not do more to save Lady from Elliot, Tramp returns to Lady's house. Lady decides her place is with her owners and Tramp leaves. A rat suddenly enters Lulu's nursery, and Lady starts barking frantically, just as Elliot arrives to warn Jim Dear that he has tracked Tramp to their house. Jim Dear locks Lady in a room, and Lady calls for Tramp, who returns and sneaks inside to the nursery. In the ensuing battle, Tramp is injured, but manages to kill the rat. Lulu, whose crib was knocked over in the struggle, starts to cry loudly. Thinking that Tramp attacked Lulu, Jim Dear hands him over to Elliot to be euthanized.

As soon as she is released, Lady leads Jim Dear and Darling to the dead rat, then sets out with Jock and Trusty to rescue Tramp. Realizing the truth, Jim Dear and Darling follow in their motorcar. Elliot's horses get scared and crash his cart when the dogs attack, and Tramp is injured in the wreck. Jim Dear and Darling catch up and adopt Tramp as their own to protect him from Elliot. The family celebrates Christmas together, and Tramp receives his new collar and license. Outside in the yard, Trusty entertains Dodge and Ollie (two puppies adopted by Jock's owner) with the story of how he helped save "a poor stray with a heart of gold".

####The Lady Pays Off####
Evelyn Walsh Warren is named Teacher of the Year and her photo is on the cover of "Time" magazine, but she is dissatisfied with her uneventful life. That changes when she goes to Reno and inadvertently loses $7000 at the roulette table, mistaking $100 chips for $1 ones. Casino owner Matt Braddock offers her a deal: He will tear up her IOU if she finds out what is wrong with his nine-year-old daughter Diane, who is moping around, not eating and having nightmares. When Evelyn refuses, he suggests they cut cards for the debt. She gets a king, but he tops her with an ace (by cheating). Defeated, she accompanies him to his home in Carmel, California.

Frustrated at her predicament, Evelyn is initially cold to Diane, but after overhearing the child's telephone conversation with her father, Evelyn becomes ashamed of herself and quickly becomes fast friends with her young charge. Soon, Diane is happy, much to Matt's delight. In fact, she is so taken with her new private teacher that she begins maneuvering to set Evelyn up with her father.

Diane becomes frustrated when Kay Stoddard, Matt's old flame, shows up. Undaunted, the young girl manages to steer Kay into some poison oak to get her out of the way. Evelyn is hostile to Matt at first, but gradually warms to him. When they go out fishing on a boat, she secretly disables the motor to spend more time with him. Matt, however, flags down a commercial fishing boat owned by Manuel to take them aboard. Evelyn gets drunk on a seasickness remedy and  admits to Matt that she has fallen for him; they become engaged.

Matt sells his casino so his future wife will not be ashamed of him, but he gets a shock when Evelyn tells him that it was all an act. She goes home.

There, she receives a telephone call from Marie, Matt's housekeeper. Diane has run away. Frantic, Evelyn flies to Carmel, where she and Matt blame each other. However, it turns out that Diane (with Marie's encouragement) was just hiding. The little girl gets the two to realize they really do love each other.

####The Legion of Missing Men####
Bob Carter is a professional soldier of fortune whose expertise is in the use of the machine gun.  He has plied his trade for Sun Yat-Sen in the Xinhai Revolution, the Mexican Revolution and with the Spanish in the Rif War for de Rivera.  Now he is content to be a Legionnaire in the 20th Marching Company of the 3rd Foreign Infantry Regiment with his comrades in arms the American Muggsy and the Englishman Bilgey.

Bob's world changes in a variety of ways.  First half his company is lost in attacks by Shiek Ibrahim-Ul-Ahmed's insurgents who capture the company's cargo of crated machine guns and ammunition.  Fortunately for the Legion the weapons are disassembled and none of the Shiek's band has the knowledge to get them into working order.

Granted leave in the town of Zabala, Bob is romantically pursued by Nina De Bernay, a French nightclub singer. Nina entertains the Legion but is romantically pursued herself by Bob's Sergeant Garcia; however Bob believes Nina to be his Sergeant's woman and does not pursue her.

Arriving with a draft of replacements for the 20th Company is Bob's own younger brother Don who admires Bob's carefree action packed international lifestyle. Initially upset that Don has thrown away his university education and business potential away, Bob soon resigns himself to his brother's company.  Problems arise when Nina, who can not have Bob and doesn't like Sgt Garcia makes a play for Don.  Immature and oblivious to local custom and military discipline, Don strikes Sergeant Garcia who gleefully has him arrested and vows to send him to the dreaded Penal Battalion.

Bob breaks the chain of command to appeal directly to his Regimental Commander to avoid ruining Don's life and the Colonel allows Don's release.  Unknown to all, Nina uses her friendship with Shiek Ibrahim-Ul-Ahmed to have two of his men free Don and smuggle him to a port where he may leave French North Africa and desert the Legion.

Bob and his two friends Muggsy and Bilgey desert themselves to bring Don back.  They track and ambush the party killing one of the Arabs, however the survivor brings reinforcements who capture the Legionnaires. The Shiek initially treats his captives kindly; in order to obtain information.  He then uses the opportunity to have Don teach his men how to assemble and use the Hotchkiss M1914 machine guns that they captured from the Legion.  This is beyond Don's knowledge but the Shiek knows of Bob's expertise and tortures Don until Bob performs these duties.  Bob agrees when Don is released.  Bob has his party assemble the weapons but modify all but two of the machine guns by filing the extractors down so they will break after a few rounds are fired and jam the weapons.

Meanwhile Nina arrives and sees that the Shiek has not got Don out of the country and instead plans to wipe out the French.  Though trusted by the Shiek, Nina proves herself loyal to France by escaping and warning the Legion of the Shiek's proposed attack on a strategic French fort. The Shiek plans his assault with fire support from the two machine guns manned by the legionnaires who are offered their freedom to switch sides.  To ensure their loyalty they are covered by the two other machine guns that Bob has sabotaged.

As the fort is attacked, the four disgraced Legionnaires turn their machine guns on the Shiek and his horde of insurgents.

####Life's Greatest Game####
In the Fall of 1906, a large crowd of baseball fans attired in period garb gathered at the front gate of Chicago Cub stadium. They plan to attend the Chicago Cubs and the New York Giants game. The fans also want to watch Cub's superstar pitcher - Jack Donovan.
Before the scheduled start of the game, other events unfold. Mike Moran is the proprietor of the local pool hall and a notorious gambler. He also is envious of Donovan's beautiful young wife, Mary, and unable to understand why she married Donovan. Moran has a plan to win a large sum of money. He wants to bet on the Giants against the heavily favored cubs. He secretly meets Donovan and offers him $5,000 to throw the series. Jack is deeply disturbed that anybody would offer him money to fix a game and angrily storms out of the room. Since Donovan balked at his moneymaking scheme, Moran seeks revenge.

The day of the big game arrives, and Jack is pitching. While on the mound, he sees Mary and Jackie sitting beside Mike Moran. His self-assurance falters, and he loses the game.
Still seeking revenge for Donovan's refusal, Moran breaks into Donovan's house. He plants a fictitious note addressed to Jack from Mary. After the game, Donovan returns home and finds the place deserted; he discovers a letter thrown on the floor. It reads:
<poem style="margin-left:1em">em|Well, I am glad you ended this pretense and come back to me.<br /> Now, my little boy, Jackie, can openly call me "Daddy."<br /> I will call for you Thursday before your husband returns from the game,<br /> and together, we can make all arrangements for our get-away.<br/>Yours, as always, Mike.</poem>
Mary returns home and sees Jack consumed with rage. Donovan storms out of the house seeking Moran. After he finds him, the two have a fierce fistfight and Moran is thrashed by Donovan.  Moran pleads for mercy and confesses he wrote the note. Donovan returns home only to find his wife and son are gone. After days go by, Donovan discovers his estranged wife and son are departing on a voyage to Europe. He rushes to the embarkation dock just in time to see the trans-Atlantic liner steaming out of sight.

Donovan does not understand that Moran is still seeking revenge and has booked passage on the same ship.  Moran booked a compartment next to Mary and Jackie. Days into the voyage, a heavy fog envelops the boat. Moran can control his passions no longer. He breaks into Mary's cabin and tries to force his affection on her. During their struggle, there was a thundering crash. The vessel has hit an iceberg. While many passengers lose their lives, Mary and Jackie Jr. survive. Despite a desperate attempt to save himself, Moran drowns. After reading the newspaper, Jack believes his family drowned. He overlooks a news item on page 6, publishing a list of survivors. Because of his loss, Jack Donovan will devote his life to baseball.

Eighteen years have elapsed since the tragedy, and Jack Donovan is the new manager of the New York Giants. Jackie Donovan Jr. is a grown man and college student. Jackie is also a star pitcher on his college baseball team. Even though Jackie is an ace pitcher, he has pledged to his mother never to play professional baseball.
Mary Donovan's finances take a turn for the worse, and Mary can no longer support her son's college costs. A New York Giants scout recently watched Jackie pitch a game and offered him a rookie contract. Jackie declined the offer because of his pledge to his mother. His mother's financial woes changed everything, and Jackie signed the Giant's contracts.

Jackie meets the manager of the Giants. He does not know the manager is his father. After several fortunate circumstances, Jackie Jr. discovered the Giant's manager was his father. After a startling discovery, Jackie keeps his discovery to himself and exacts revenge on a day of his choosing against the man who abandoned his mother and him.
The world series arrives, and the Giants face the Yankees for baseball dominance. Jack Donovan lets the rookie pitch and sub as a pinch hitter in the crucial seventh game. Jackie believes the time has arrived, tells his father his true identity, and threatens to throw the game. In the end, Jackie's integrity wins out. He pitches a flawless inning and hits the game-winning home run. The Giants win the series.

Jackie informs Jack Sr. that his mother is seriously ill and needs help and invites Jack Sr to go with him back home. The estranged couple reunites, and Jackie becomes engaged to his sweetheart, Nora.

####Lilac Time####
Seven young English aviators are billeted at the Berthelot farm near the French front. One of the flyers, Philip Blythe (Gary Cooper) is a replacement pilot who falls in love with the farmer's daughter, Jeannie (Colleen Moore), She loves Philip, and on the morning before a dangerous mission he also declares his love for her.

Philip is shot down, and Jeannie helps an ambulance crew to extricate his apparently lifeless body from the wrecked aircraft. The crew will not allow Jeannie to accompany Philip and cannot tell her where they are taking him.

Jeannie obtains an address for the military army hospital where he is. When she visits, she is told that he has died from his wounds, based on incorrect records. Jeannie sends a bouquet of lilacs to his room in remembrance, and Philip, recognizing the flowers as her gift, painfully drags himself to his window in time to call her back to him.

####The Lone Eagle####
During World War I, American pilot Lieutenant William (Billy) Holmes (Raymond Keane) accepts an assignment with the Royal Flying Corps. The unit location is on the Western Front and has seen plenty of action. During Billy's first air battle, he is accused of cowardice.

He meets an attractive French woman named Mimi (Barbara Kent). They start to fall in love, but the cowardice accusation continues to dog Billy. Mimi stirs Billy's emotions, and he becomes determined to prove his mettle in battle.

The unit receives its next flying mission. The group takes to the sky and encounters a squadron of German aircraft. American ace Red McGibbons (Donald Stuart) is one of Billy's best friends. During the dogfight, Red manages to shoot down a German plane, but is also killed.

The pilot of the downed German aircraft turns out to be the brother of the leader of the German squadron. Lebrun (Cuyler Supplee), the squadron leader, is the top German ace of the squadron. He is determined to avenge his brother's death. He challenges the Royal Flying Corps to an aerial fight.

Still thinking of his best friend, Billy accepts the challenge from LeBrun. Mimi tries to dissuade him, but fails. He jumps in the cockpit of his Sopwith Camel, takes off in pursuit of Lebrun. An epic air duel breaks out, and Lebrun shoots down Billy's aircraft. Billy survives, then commandeers another aircraft from his friend Sven Linder (Jack Pennick). He returns to the air and shoots the German ace down.

Billy is a hero and soon the Allies and the Germans sign the Armistice. With the war over, Billy returns to the United States along with his new bride – Mimi.

####The Lost Husband####
Libby loses her husband and her home and finds herself a single mother of Abby and Tank, with no place to live. She moves in with her mother, Marsha, an overly critical woman. Marsha has always had a rocky relationship with Libby. After six months, Marsha says that Libby must leave. Libby and her two children move to Aunt Jean's goat farm in central Texas looking for a fresh start. Aunt Jean instructs James O'Connor, her farm manager, to teach Libby the ropes of keeping up the farm. Libby is not thrilled about the idea, but accepts because she needs a job. Slowly, Libby and the children start getting used to their new life at the farm.

Libby develops her farm skills and begins bonding with James. The children also bond with James, who enjoys playing with Tank and teaching Abby how to defend herself from a bully at her new school who picks on her for having a limp, which she got in the car accident that killed her father. Abby gets suspended from school for punching the bully and, although Libby is upset with James for teaching her karate, she realizes Abby trusted James to tell her about the bullying issues while she had been too afraid to talk about it with Libby and adding to her stress. Later in the film Abby is suspended again for using curse words on the bully, who had hit her in the head. James drives Libby to school to pick Abby up, and when he runs into the bully, he threatens him.

The family also meets and bonds with Jean's boyfriend, Russ McAllen, and his granddaughter, Sunshine. One night, Sunshine takes Libby to an abandoned house which she says belongs to Jean, but she hasn't lived there since her husband, Frank, died. Sunshine suggests Libby try to communicate with her dead husband. Although Libby doesn't take the idea of talking with the dead too seriously, she does have a sentimental and raw moment delivering a monologue as if she were talking to Danny. The fire they had made suddenly goes out, leaving Libby thinking maybe Danny was in fact able to hear her. Throughout the next days we slowly see Libby acquire a sense of closure about her husband's death.

During Jean's birthday party, more is learned about James. After five years of marriage, his wife fell for another man and asked for a divorce. A few months after the divorce, she had a stroke and required full-time care from a nurse. James had stepped in to help her constantly, as her new boyfriend had left her as soon as things got hard.

One day, Libby decides to visit the big abandoned house again and finds a picture of her as a baby with Jean and Frank. She confronts Aunt Jean about it, finding out that Marsha had abandoned her as a newborn and left her at that house at the care of her grandparents. However, due to their delicate health, it was Jean who had cared for her until Marsha came back four years later for the grandmother's funeral. Libby drives to Marsha's home to confront her about it. Marsha says she was only 18 at the time and needed time to mature.

Libby goes back to the farm and asks Jean to let her restore the house, so she can live there with her children, assuring her that she will continue to take care of the farm. As much as she has lost during the past year, Libby has finally found a place that feels like home. In the end scene, we see Libby fixing the house when James comes by to tell her he had been helping his ex-wife move in with her parents, so they could take care of her. Bringing closure to that chapter in his life, James tells Libby he is back and ready to continue working on the farm. They kiss.

####The Lucky Lady####
As described in a film magazine review, this is a tale of a beauty who lavished her charms upon one man for revenge and upon another for love. It happens in a mythical kingdom where a lovely princess is chafing against the restraint of a convent. She sneaks away, meets a young American man, flirts with him, and falls in love. At the same time, she poses as an alluring vampire and flirts with the wild-living nobleman whom she is supposed to marry but does not love. The prime minister, fearing for the marriage plans of the nobleman and the princess, banishes the young American and the vampire, who is really the princess. The two journey to America and live happily ever afterwards.

####The Mailman####
This story unfolds as a veteran postman Bob Morley played by Ralph Lewis, and his son - Johnnie, played by Johnnie Walker are both honored for their years of service.  Later, Johnnie is promoted to work on a postal service ship, the em|Enterprise.  The ocean-going ship carries registered postal mail.  One night while Johnnie is at work on the ship, a robbery occurs at midnight. During the burglary, the robbers kill a postal officer.  Bob's son witnesses the foul play.  The perpetrators decide to throw Johnnie, the only witness, overboard into the sea.

After Johnnie is tossed overboard, he is recovered by a yacht, which happens to be in the area.  In a twist of fate, the vessel is a rum runner and happens to be involved in the robbery of the Enterprise.  Johnnie somehow alerts the Pacific fleet.  The entire Pacific fleet pursues the rum-running yacht with ten Dreadnoughts.  The warships destroy the 90-foot yacht.  Johnnie is saved from the destruction only to face trial for killing a government postal officer during the robbery.  His father desperately contacts everyone he knows, pleading to save his son. As the court is about to sentence Johnnie to hang for the shooting, the real perpetrator confesses, and all ends well.

####A Man's Man####
As described in a film magazine, mining engineer John Stuart Webster (Kerrigan) is headed for Central America. While on his way to Mexico, at a truck stop in Arizona he saves a handsome young girl Dolores (Wilson) from the annoyance of a traveling salesman, and henceforth falls in love with her. Webster is a peace-loving individual, but is all fight when a fight is required. When he arrives in Sobrante, he runs into one of the periodic revolutions. He rescues Dolores from the revolutionaries, with her father being killed and Webster almost killed. She nurses him back to health, and he saves the country, marries the girl, and they set out on a happy life.

####Mannequin####
As described in a film magazine review, Selene Herrick's weakness for "things" she purchases at auctions brings about a quarrel with her husband John in 1907. He has hired a nurse, Annie Pogani, who runs off with the Herrick baby, Joan. John is under the impression that the child was taken away by Selene. The wife eventually returns and the loss of their child is disclosed. Raised in the East Side of New York City, after Annie's death Joan eventually obtains work as a cloak model and is eventually found by her parents.

####The Mark of Zorro####
"The Mark of Zorro" tells the story of Don Diego Vega, the outwardly foppish son of a wealthy ranchero Don Alejandro in the old Spanish California of the early 19th century. Seeing the mistreatment of the peons by rich landowners and the oppressive colonial government, Don Diego, who is not as effete as he pretends, has taken the identity of the masked Robin Hood-like rogue Señor Zorro ("Mr. Fox"), champion of the people, who appears out of nowhere to protect them from the corrupt administration of Governor Alvarado, his henchman the villainous Captain Juan Ramon and the brutish Sergeant Pedro Gonzales (Noah Beery, Wallace Beery's older half-brother). With his sword flashing and an athletic sense of humor, Zorro scars the faces of evildoers with his mark, "Z".

When not in the disguise of Zorro, dueling and rescuing peons, Don Diego courts the beautiful Lolita Pulido with bad magic tricks and worse manners. She cannot stand him. Lolita is also courted by Captain Ramon; and by the dashing Zorro, whom she likes.

In the end, when Lolita's family is jailed, Don Diego throws off his masquerade, whips out his sword, wins over the soldiers to his side, forces Governor Alvarado to abdicate, and wins the hand of Lolita, who is delighted to discover that her effeminate suitor, Diego, is actually the dashing hero.

####Marshall####
In April 1941, Thurgood Marshall is an NAACP lawyer traveling the country defending people of color who are wrongly accused of crimes because of racial prejudice.  Upon his return to his New York City office, he is sent to Bridgeport, Connecticut, to defend Joseph Spell, a chauffeur accused of rape by his white employer, Eleanor Strubing, in a case that has gripped the newspapers.  In Bridgeport, insurance lawyer Sam Friedman is assigned by his brother to get Marshall admitted to the local bar, against his will.  At the hearing, Judge Foster, a friend of the father of prosecutor Lorin Willis, agrees to admit Marshall, but forbids Marshall from speaking during the trial, forcing Friedman to be Spell's lead counsel.  Marshall must guide Friedman through notes, such as when he advises Friedman to allow a woman of Southern white descent into the jury because of her assertive and questioning personality.

Spell swears to Marshall that he never had any sexual contact with Strubing and leads the lawyers to a patrolman who stopped Spell that night while he was driving Strubing's car.  Marshall and Friedman investigate Strubing's story that Spell tied her up in the back seat of her car after raping her and drove to a bridge to throw her over.  They wonder why Spell appeared to throw her over the calm side instead of the side with rapids.  Spell is initially interested in a plea bargain offered by Willis, but Marshall talks him out of it.  Later on at trial, though, a doctor testifies to finding pieces of skin underneath Strubing's fingernails, as well as bruises.  Strubing herself testifies that she was tied in the back seat when the patrolman pulled Spell over.  With this information, Marshall and Friedman confront Spell, who admits that he was lying about not having had sexual contact with Strubing.

At trial, Spell testifies that Strubing's husband inflicted the bruises through repeated acts of spousal abuse.  That night, he went to ask Strubing for money to pay off a debt, finding a distraught Strubing wanting to have sex with him.  Spell consented, and the two had several sexual encounters that night.  Strubing then panicked about being found out and being pregnant.  Spell tried to drive her to a doctor, but Strubing had to hide in the back seat when the patrolman questioned him.  A hysterical Strubing forced Spell to stop by a bridge where she ran out and tried to kill herself.  When Spell tried to stop her, she scratched him and jumped off the bridge.  But she survived and flagged down a motorist making up a desperate story about rape.  When Willis asks why Spell didn't tell the truth to begin with, Spell talks about how black men get tortured and lynched in his native Louisiana for having sex with white women.  Over Willis's objections, Judge Foster, who is shown to be horrified by Spell's revelation as are the members of the jury, allows Spell's statement to stand.

Before the verdict, Marshall has to leave for a case in Mississippi.  A desperate Willis offers Spell a much lighter plea bargain, but Spell feels emboldened enough to turn it down.  The night before Marshall leaves, he and Friedman prepare the closing statement that Friedman then delivers on his own.  The Southern white woman has now become the jury forewoman, and she ultimately delivers a "not guilty" verdict.  Friedman happily breaks the news over the phone to Marshall, who moves on to his next case.  Closing credits note that Friedman went on to work in many civil rights cases, while Marshall himself has an illustrious career as the American Civil Rights Movement's principal legal strategist and the first African American Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States.

####Miss Suwanna of Siam####
The film is a romance about a young woman named Suwanna who is the object of affection for many men. In her search for true love, she has many adventures and mishaps, including overcoming her father's disapproval, before finally finding her soulmate.

####A Modern Musketeer####
D'Artagnan (Douglas Fairbanks) rides up to a tavern on horseback and ends up brawling with sword and fist with the patrons inside in his haste to approach a fair young stranger. After triumphing, he morphs into modern day Ned Thacker (also played by Fairbanks).

Ned is born and raised in Kansas by a mother who passes along to him her love of D'Artagnan and "The Three Musketeers", despite his father's concern that it is not good for him. In fact, Ned does get into trouble with his (sometimes unwanted) chivalrous attempts to help women.  Finally, Ned can stand it no more; he decides to leave dull Kansas. In mirroring scenes, D'Artagnan is astride a somewhat less-than-noble steed, a present from his father for his departure from home, while Ned's father gives him the modern equivalent: a car.

While driving in the desert, he comes upon a chauffeur-driven automobile stopped because the road ahead has been washed away. Unimpressed with one passenger, the  middle-aged Forrest Vandeteer (the "richest man in Yonkers"), Ned is quite taken with the lovely "Park Avenue flapper" Elsie Dodge. Her mother, the third passenger, sees her only daughter's marriage to Vandeteer as the solution to their dire financial straits. Vandeteer buys what he wants, and he wants Elsie. She, however, loathes her suitor; she much prefers young Ned.



Ned comes up with the idea to put his car on railroad tracks. He takes the party (with Elsie in the front seat beside him) to their Grand Canyon resort hotel. There, Vandeteer tells Ned to stay away from the ladies. John Blabb, who works for "Town Topics", informs Ned that Vandeteer already has three wives hidden away somewhere.

Meanwhile, Chin-de-dah, the Native American leader of an outlaw gang hiding in a tributary canyon, is bored. He decides to kidnap a white woman to be his wife (his last "wife" is shown to have committed suicide). He goes to the resort, pretending to be a guide, and selects Elsie as his target. Ned is suspicious, but Vandeteer hires him. Vandeteer and Elsie set out for a horse ride down the canyon with their guide. Ned uses the time to persuade Mrs. Dodge that her daughter's happiness should take priority over their financial security.

James Brown, a member of the gang who knows and hates Vandeteer, gleefully tells Ned about the man's impending demise and  Chin-de-dah's intentions toward Elsie. Ned shames him into helping with a rescue. They reach the camp in time to free Elsie and Vandeteer, but remain in peril. Vandeteer offers Ned $100,000 to save his life; Ned makes him put it in writing. Then they are lifted up the sheer cliff by a rope pulled by a horse. Once they are safe, Brown wants to kill Vandeteer, who falsely incriminated him in Vandeteer's own scam and stole his wife and children. Vandeteer ends up clinging to the cliffside, kept from falling to his death only by Ned's grip. Under Ned's direction, he writes a note exonerating Brown. Ned persuades Brown to let Vandeteer live, and promises to split the reward with him. Once they are alone, Elsie kisses her rescuer.

####Monte Carlo Nights####
A man wrongfully convicted of murder escapes custody and goes in search of real killer. The problem is that he only has one clue to go on.

####Murder in the Clouds####
Trans-America Air Lines pilot "Three Star" Bob Halsey (Lyle Talbot) is in love with stewardess Judy Wagner (Ann Dvorak), but she wants him to stop his daredevil ways. So does his boss, Lackey (Charles C. Wilson). Confident in his abilities and knowing that he is the airline's best pilot, he pays neither any mind.

Federal agent Brownell (Henry O'Neill) urgently requests Lackey's cooperation: Clement Williams (Edward McWade) must be flown from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C., with a cylinder full of a revolutionary new explosive he has invented. However, Lackey's assistant Jason (Arthur Pierson) is eavesdropping on him for Taggart (Russell Hicks), a spy.

He eavesdrops again when Lackey chooses Bob as pilot and Judy's brother Tom (Robert Light) as co-pilot. Taggart sends three men to provoke Bob into a fistfight. While Bob is knocked out, another pilot, George Wexley (Gordon Westcott), chats casually with Tom, "learns" that Bob is late for the special trip, and offers to protect Bob's job by taking over.

Over the lower Sierras, the Ford Trimotor airliner explodes.

Bob and Lackey fly to the crash site and talk to Brownell. Tom's cap is there. Back in Los Angeles, they report that there are no survivors.

Frantic for news of her brother, Judy drives to the site before they return, evading the police roadblock. She is recognized by Jason, who is traveling with the spies to a nearby house they are using. Improvising a plan, they pose as federal agents and stop her.

At the house she is surprised to see Wexley, who tells her the saboteur ordered him and Tom to parachute out, then set a bomb and himself parachuted out with the cylinder—all nearly true, except that Wexley "was" the saboteur and Tom is dead. They want to hide the cylinder in Judy's car and trick her into driving to Mexico, so Wexley says that Tom has gone to Tijuana to identify a suspect. She agrees to leave in the morning. But then the radio reports the recovery of Tom's body. Realizing her predicament, Judy pretends not to have heard. That night, finding some paint, she paints Bob's three-star personal logo on the porch roof of the house.

Next day, back at Los Angeles, Bob learns Jason has left the office—with the three men who knocked him out. He and Lackey then discover Jason's eavesdropping device. Bob flies back to the crash area. As his co-pilot he takes Wings, who works as the airline's mechanic because when he got his pilot's license he learned he was afraid to fly. They see the three stars and land.

Bob tells Wings that if there is any sign of trouble he must fly away and alert the Air Patrol. When shots are fired, Wings does just that&mdash;not seeing Bob and Judy running for the plane. The spies capture them both.

Wexley and Taggart depart in Wexley's armed biplane, taking Judy and the cylinder. Wings then arrives with the Air Patrol, who capture the rest of the gang after a brief gunfight.

In a dogfight between biplanes, Taggart is killed but the Air Patrol plane is shot down. Now rescued, Bob takes off with Wings. He finds Wexley's plane and executes risky maneuvers to force him to land. Wexley tries to run away and Wings throws a rock at him. Both Judy and the cylinder are recovered.

Although the government is grateful, all that Judy and Bob want to do is get married.

####Murder in the Private Car####
This is the story of Los Angeles switchboard operator Ruth Raymond (Mary Carlisle). She learns from lawyer Alden Murray (Porter Hall) that she is actually the daughter of railroad tycoon Luke Carson (Berton Churchill). She had been kidnapped as a baby by Luke's brother and partner Elwood, and placed with strangers. Once it is found out that she is an heiress, there is an attempt on her life by her bodyguard and chauffeur, which is foiled by Godfrey Scott (Charles Ruggles).

A telegram from her father is intercepted and replaced, telling her to meet him in New York instead of Los Angeles, and that a private train car has been arranged. Ruth, Murray, and her best friend Georgia Latham (Una Merkel) board the train bound for New York. In the private car, the lights go out and an announcement is heard, "Eight hours to live", after which Scott introduces himself to Ruth and her friends as a sleuth who prevents crime. Scott reunites Ruth with her boyfriend John Blake (Russell Hardie), who has stowed away. Then the train is suddenly stopped until the wreck of a circus train on the tracks is cleared.

Murray is murdered and "Five hours to live" is announced. Then an escaped circus gorilla attacks Ruth, Georgia, and Scott before jumping from the train to its death. The next morning, the train stops in the same small town where Luke Carson's train has also stopped. He has been tipped off by a radio message to meet her. Now with no reason to go to Los Angeles, her father joins Ruth's party in the private car.

Then one by one all the windows are blackened and the lights put out, and a voice informs the passengers that the private car is about to be uncoupled from the train and will roll backwards downhill towards another train, the Limited; and a secret panel is opened, showing concealed explosives that will make sure no one survives the crash.

Luke Carson recognizes the sinister voice as that of his brother Elwood, who is in fact the conductor in charge of the private car. Elwood confirms his identity and says Luke once cheated him. Scott finds and kills Elwood, then finds a radio transmitter on the car and uses it to broadcast a warning of the imminent collision and explosion. The Limited's engineers hear the broadcast and reverse their train, but this also risks a collision since a freight train is following it. Fortunately there is a conveniently located railway yard where quick-thinking railwaymen can throw switches to send the Limited, the freight, and the runaway private car onto three separate tracks.

Then they dispatch a locomotive to catch up with the runaway car, warning its engineer about the explosives. Rather than coupling to the car, the engineer pulls close to it so that everyone on board can jump onto the front platform of the steam locomotive. Then he stops the locomotive, just before the runaway car derails on a curve and explodes.  When everyone gets off to look, Scott and Georgia embrace.

####My Bollywood Bride####
Alex (Jason Lewis), living in Venice Beach, is a struggling writer. One day, he meets Reena (Kashmera Shah) at the beach. They spend time together and Alex starts to fall in love with her. However, some days later, Reena disappears at LAX. The only thing Alex knows about her is that she's from Thakur Village, Mumbai, India - so he follows her there. In India, he discovers, with the help of his new driver Priyad (Ash Chandler) that Reena is the greatest film star of Bollywood and engaged to Shekar, an influential Bollywood producer. Alex stays with Bobby K. (Sanjay Suri), a friend of Reena and a big Bollywood actor himself - while Alex is struggling with his own romance, Bobby starts to fall for his choreographer, Alisha (Neha Dubey), an old friend from his past he very much disappointed by simply forgetting about her when he became famous. Reena, hesitant to break off an engagement arranged by her parents, feels that she owes Shekhar her entire career, while Alex is struggling with Reena's mother and Shekhar himself, who both feel that Reena and Alex might be too interested in each other. Bobby K. meanwhile, after a broken down car, gets stuck with Alisha in some abandoned hut at the beach, they have an opportunity to talk and make up, however shortly afterwards, a misunderstanding occurs and Alisha feels betrayed all over again. Reena, meanwhile, tells Alex to leave, as she is going to accept her family's wishes and will marry Shekhar in order to preserve the tradition of an arranged marriage. Alex is all ready to leave India and Bobby finds out that Shekhar is having an affair with a co-worker (The entire affair is caught on CD). Reena's parents tell her not give up her happiness and tell her to go after Alex, Bobby clarifies the misunderstanding between him and Alisha and makes her pursue her dreams and Reena stops Alex to leave the country after a rickshaw chase. Everything ends well and Reena and Alex, after professing their love for each other, get married.

####Never So Few####
Burma, 1943. A unit of American and British forces under the OSS joins with native Kachin to hold back Japanese invaders, while facing problems with limited supplies and lack of medical care. The unit's leaders, Captains Tom Reynolds and Danny De Mortimer, fly to Calcutta to rectify both problems. While there, they are assured they can select any army doctor for transfer to their unit. Tom and Danny are then ordered on a 2-week leave. They travel to the resort of Cawaga, where Tom falls in love with Carla, mistress to a mysterious businessman of doubtful reputation. Tom and Danny also encounter a doctor, Captain Travis. Much to his objections, they tag Travis for transfer to their unit in the Burmese hills, along with a tough, resourceful "kid" corporal named Ringa.

Upon returning to their unit with Travis and Ringa, Tom and Danny authorize a big Christmas bash with lots of drinking. The proceedings, however, are interrupted by a surprise Japanese raid. It is a costly affair. Some in the unit are killed, and many, including Tom, are wounded. Cpl. Ringa interrogates a captured Japanese soldier, who reveals a traitor in Tom's unit. After the informer is executed, Tom and other wounded are transported to a Calcutta hospital for recovery. Upon their return, Tom's unit launches an assault on a strategic Japanese-held airstrip. The mission succeeds but results in many lives lost. While on their way back to base, the unit comes across a destroyed American convoy and finds evidence indicating renegade Chinese were responsible. Tom orders a pursuit of the renegades. They find the Chinese camp, locate their supply tent, and come upon several dozen American dog tags and personal effects. Shocked and outraged, Tom realizes the renegades have been killing American soldiers.

But when he radios OSS headquarters, he gets a reply ordering his immediate return to base as the Chungking government has lodged a complaint. While Tom consults with his officers, a Chinese soldier kills Danny. Tom angrily sends a message to OSS rebuffing their demand. He then orders Ringa to execute the prisoners. When he returns to headquarters in Calcutta, Tom, who is placed under house arrest, encounters an angry, vindictive officer from Washington, General Sloan, who tells Tom he is there specifically to see him hang. Tom answers back by showing the general a crate of the American dog tags found at the renegade camp. Sloan quietly admits to being sickened by the sight. Hours later, when an arrogant Chinese representative, Gen. Chao, struts on the scene and demands an official apology, Sloan tells Chao to "go to hell." Exonerated, Tom is freed and reunites with Carla before returning to the Kachin and the war.

####Never Talk to Strangers####
Psychologist Dr. Sarah Taylor is a guarded, aloof criminal psychologist who interviews a client who is a rapist, and is pleading not guilty by reason of insanity. It is later revealed that she was the subject of daily rapes as a child by her estranged father, who is now shown to be very ill. Sarah meets Tony Ramirez in a shopping mall, and she gives him her number. She begins a relationship with Tony, despite the creepy advances of her neighbor, Cliff, with whom she once had a one-night stand.

Days into this new relationship, Sarah begins to get death threats and strange gifts, such as dead flowers. As she gets more romantic with Tony, the gifts get more extreme. Her cat is dismembered which leads to Sarah going to the police. Sarah then hires a detective and has Tony followed, and breaks into his apartment only to discover that he has a file on her, including information about her mother's death in a gun accident, twenty years before. Tony is actually investigating her, trying to learn the whereabouts of a former boyfriend of hers who had disappeared suddenly.

Ultimately, it is revealed that Sarah suffers from multiple personality disorder, brought on from her abuse as a child, and from her father brainwashing her to cover up the murder of her mother. Her alternate personality is responsible for all of the strange gifts, and for murdering her ex-boyfriend. When Tony goes to her father's house, Sarah (under the control of her alternate personality) follows him, shoots and kills him there, and then kills her father when he tries to intervene. When Sarah reverts to her normal personality, not remembering what has happened, she presumes that Tony was crazy and killed her father, and that she killed Tony in self-defense. In the end, she is seen entering into a relationship with Cliff.

####Nice Women####
A young woman, Jerry Girard (Frances Dee) is pushed by her mother (Lucille Gleason) and family into accepting the marriage proposal of a millionaire, Mark Chandler (Alan Mowbray), who is the employer of her father (James Durkin).  To do so, she has to drop the boy she really loves and promised to marry, Billy Wells (Russell Gleason), but her family is seeking to recover from their financial woes and find security.  When the millionaire finds out the real situation, he releases her from her vow and gives the young couple a $5000 wedding gift. He then leaves for Europe with an old flame, Dorothy Drew (Carmel Myers).

####No Place to Go####
A wealthy young woman and a bank clerk elope during a cruise in the South Seas. Their disappearance causes concern, which is apparently justified because the two are attacked by savages on an island before they can marry. Marriage eventually occurs after the two return home, but more problems ensue.

####The Non-Stop Flight####
multiple image
|align=right
|total_width=220
|image1=NSF Scene 01.png
|footer=Photograph from "The Non-Stop Flight"

In Spring 1906, Captain Lars Larson and his wife, Anna, live in a modest cottage nestled in the harbor town of Laholm set on the western edge of Sweden. Anna is expecting their first child. Lars is packing his seabag for his upcoming sea journey. After Lars finishes packing, they leave the house hand-in-hand and walk to the pier. After exchanging goodbyes, Lars remembers a gift he bought for Anna. He gives her a necklace with a cross attached and "Lars" engraved on the crossbeam. He kisses her, then departs. We see a man to the side following the loving exchanges with visible disdain.

Our mystery man is Karl Kruger, skipper of the Steamboat - Gretchen. Karl was a former suitor for Anna's affection. After Lars sets sail, Karl creeps into Larson's cottage and surprises Anna.  He tries to have his way, but Anna resists.  A frustrated Karl shows a hidden note.

<poem style="margin-left:1em">"Dear Karl
I have found the man I love the most
Please forget me"</poem>

This note is the original Anna sent Karl after breaking off their earlier relationship. Karl takes the letter and rips off the part that says - Dear Karl.  He sticks the remaining piece into a nearby book. Anna screams when she realizes the consequences of Karl's deceit. Lars will believe she has left him for another man. Kruger kidnaps Anna and forces her to board the Gretchen. The boat casts off and heads out to sea.

Captain Larson returns home and finds their home in shambles. Lars discovers the book containing Anna's note. After reading the message, he sobs and then torches the house. Fueled by extreme bitterness, Lars transforms into a drunken ne'er-do-well and becomes a smuggler.

We shift to 1925 - the United States Navy is attempting the first non-stop flight between San Francisco to Hawaii with three Seaplanes. The lead plane will be the PN-9, commanded by Roger Davis, with Lieutenant Jack Connell second in command. Amidst much fanfare, the seaplanes leave for Hawaii. The PN-9 is eight hours into their historic flight. They somehow run into a violent storm. Blown off course and low on fuel, the crew makes a forced ocean landing. After drifting for six days, they come upon an island. The crew reconnoiters for food.

Years passed, and Lars Larson is the Captain of a tramp steamer smuggling Chinese laborers to Veracruz. Ah Wing is in charge of the captive workers, an opium smuggler, and the man responsible for paying Captain Larson. Ah Wing approaches the Captain and states he will pay $2000 if Larson alters course so Wing can find a young female concubine. Larson agrees to keep a lookout.

Captain Larson's boat stumbles across the same island and starts a reconnaissance. Along with Ah Wing, the Captain sees an older man and a young girl waving a distress flag. Wing tells Larson he wants the girl, and Larson agrees to dock the boat. The ship launches a dinghy to pick up the girl, hermit, and the seaplane crew. After they load the passengers, the vessel embarks. Soon, they run into a powerful storm.

During the storm, Wing visits the Captain's quarters and pays Larson the money to the girl. Wing heads toward the girl's cabin to collect his prize. The girl (Maria), seeing what Wing has in mind, flees to the Captain's cabin. Marie pleads with Larson to protect her. Larson refuses, and Wing pursues the terrified woman. Lieutenant Jack Connell hears Maria's screams and rushes to her rescue. During the ensuing fight, Connell is knocked-out.

Ah Wing grabs Maria and escapes the Captain's quarters. After Wing leaves, Lars spots the necklace lying on the floor. He picks up the trinket and realizes it is the exact necklace he gave to his beloved Anna. The hermit enters the cabin, and Captain Lars presses him about the source of the necklace.

The hermit describes the day that Carl Krueger kidnapped the pregnant Anna. After Krueger's ship sailed off with Anna, the boat ran into a squall. The vessel sinks with all hands except for Anna and the first mate. They made their way to the island. The baby was born, and Anna died. Lars realizes that Maria is his daughter. Maria flees to the arms of the lieutenant, and they both leave the room.

Upon realizing that Maria is his daughter, Lars grabs his gun and heads to Ah wing's cabin. During the confrontation, Ah Wing flees the cabin and heads below the ship.  Ah Wing releases the Chinese prisoners, instructing them to take over the ship.

Lieutenant Connell rouses the crew, and fighting breaks out everywhere. Even though outnumbered, the ship's crew and naval crew continue the fight.

A Pacific Fleet dispatched a submarine to hunt for the missing seaplanes. The submarine submerged to avoid the storm. While searching, they see the fracas onboard Larson's boat and decide to help. After the submarine surfaces, she takes on water. The crew boards the steamer before losing the sub and helps defeat the rebellion.

The Chinese laborers are subdued and returned to the  dfn|"Brig"|Ship's brigs are detention facilities or jails. Larson tracks down Ah Wing and shoots him. He returns to his quarters to find the hermit telling Maria the Captain is her father. Maria smiles and calls Lars–Daddy.

Sometime later, the repaired PN9 seaplane lands in the San Francisco harbor. The crowds are cheering. Captain Lars and his daughter are onshore, welcoming the naval crew home.

####Oh, Susanna!####
Singing cowboy Gene Autry (Gene Autry) is traveling to Mineral Springs Ranch to visit an old friend, Jefferson Lee (Carl Stockdale), whom he hasn't seen in fifteen years. On the train, he is robbed and then thrown from the train by escaped murderer Wolf Benson (Boothe Howard). Believing Gene to be dead, Wolf plans to travel to Mineral Springs Ranch and pose as the radio celebrity in order to collect the $10,000 that Lee owes Gene.

Meanwhile, Gene is rescued by traveling actors Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette) and Professor Ezekial Daniels (Earle Hodgins). Together they travel to Sage City, where Gene gets into a fight with Sheriff Briggs (Walter James), who believes he is Wolf, and chokes the singing cowboy. Arrested for Wolf's crimes, Gene is unable to sing in order to prove his identity. At the trial, Gene mouths the words to his songs while a phonograph plays, and after the jury listens, Gene is set free.

Wolf arrives at Lee's Mineral Springs Ranch pretending to be Gene and asks for his money back. Knowing he is an impostor, Lee refuses to give him the money and Wolf shoots him and robs his safe. On his way to Mineral Springs, Gene comes across a posted reward for "Gene Autry", the murderer of Jefferson Lee. Gene meets Lee's niece Mary Ann (Frances Grant), who is riding with Flash Baldwin (Donald Kirke), Wolf's accomplice. Gene notices that Baldwin is wearing his own suit, and decides to pose as Tex Smith, offering to perform at the Lee ranch in place of Gene Autry. After finding his suitcase in Baldwin's room, Gene overhears Wolf's scheme to rob the ranch safe, but Baldwin recognizes Gene's voice by playing his record while he sings.

The next day, while the guests picnic, Wolf and his men crack the ranch safe. Gene pulls a gun on them, but Sheriff Briggs and his posse arrive with Frog and Daniels. He arrests Gene, instead of Wolf, still believing that Gene killed Lee. While the posse locates Mary Ann to implicate Wolf, he deserts his men and Gene overtakes him in his car. Mary Ann then testifies to Gene's innocence and they kiss.

####Old Gringo####
American schoolteacher Harriet Winslow goes to Mexico to work as a governess for the Miranda family, and becomes caught up in the Mexican revolution. Mexicans transporting her from Chihuahua, secretly soldiers of Pancho Villa's army, use her luggage to smuggle weapons to the servants at the Miranda hacienda. The servants in turn aid the attacking revolutionary army of General Tomas Arroyo. During the attack, a sardonic "Old Gringo", American author Ambrose Bierce, joins the fighting on the side of the revolutionaries; he operates a railway switch that sends a railroad flatcar laden with explosives to its target.

After the Miranda hacienda is taken, Winslow becomes romantically attracted alternately to Bierce and then Arroyo. Bierce has come to Mexico to die in anonymity; he feels that his fifty years as a writer have won him praise only for his style, not for the truth that he's tried to tell. Arroyo, by contrast, has returned to the hacienda where he was born. His father was a Miranda who had raped his peasant mother. Later in his youth, Arroyo murdered his father.

While his army enjoys previously unknown luxuries on the war-damaged palatial estate, Arroyo becomes obsessed with his past. Transfixed by childhood memories of his family buried there, he fails to move his army when ordered by Villa. To bring Arroyo to his senses and avert a mutiny of his officers, Bierce burns papers that the illiterate Arroyo considers sacred—papers that supposedly entitle the peasants to the hacienda land. Arroyo responds by shooting Bierce in the back, killing him. Bierce dies in Winslow's arms.

Winslow goes to the U.S. embassy in Mexico to claim Bierce's body and bring it back to the United States. She claims that he was her long-lost father. This puts Villa in a predicament because a U.S. citizen was murdered by one of his generals. Wishing to avoid American meddling in the revolution, he has Winslow sign a statement that her father had joined the revolution and was executed for disobeying orders, as was General Arroyo who had shot him, and that she witnessed both executions. She signs the statement, is provided with the coffin bearing Bierce's body, and witnesses the execution of Arroyo.

####Over the Border####
As described in a film magazine, Jen Galbraith (Compson), the daughter of a bootlegger on the Canadian boarder, and Sgt. Tom Flaherty (Moore) of the North-West Mounted Police are in love, and the young woman often begs him to give up his job as a policeman. Tom has secretly turned in his resignation, but it is not yet in effect. While Jen is riding home through the snow one night she is mistaken for a spy of the moonshiners and is shot at by the police. She returns the fire and wounds an officer's horse. The police follow a trail that leads to her home with Tom arriving at the bootleggers camp at about the same time and seeking to divert suspicion from his girl. Her father and brother are arrested, and Jen turns from her lover in anger. The prisoners are freed on bail and plan to ship the liquor across the border into the United States and forfeit their bail. A spy is shot by Jen's brother and Sgt. Flaherty is sent to follow the slayer through a blizzard. Stopping at Jen's home, he is drugged by her father, but Jen carries Tom's sealed orders to the headquarters post. Tom follows and pretends that he has the authority to take the prisoner back with him. With his commission now expired, he tricks his former fellow officers and aids Jen's brother to escape. This brings about a reconciliation between Tom and Jen.

####The Phantom Express####
This story starts with engineer D.J. 'Smokey' Nolan, played by J. Farrell MacDonald speeding down the tracks at full throttle when he spies an oncoming train directly in his path. He quickly applies the emergency brakes, the train starts screeching to a halt but then derails. Several passengers are killed. An investigation cannot find any trace of the oncoming train that caused the derailment. Smoky is fired for negligence.

We come to find out Smoky has a beautiful daughter, Carolyn Nolan, played by Sally Blane.  We also learn the CEO of the Southwest Pacific Railroad, Mr. Harrington played by Hobart Bosworth, has a playboy son - Bruce Harrington played by William Collier, Jr.

Because of the derailment and other ill fortunes, Mr. Harrington has decided to sell the railroad for a fraction of its worth. He will sign the papers at midnight. In the meantime, Bruce meets Carolyn and finds out she is the daughter of the fired engineer. They instantly bond, then decide to set out together and solve the mystery of the phantom express.

During their investigation, they uncover a diabolical scheme concocted by a network of bad guys.   They find out the President of a rival railroad company played by Huntley Gordon has intentionally caused all of the accidents on the Southwest Pacific Railroad to drive the stock price down. After the stock plummets, the rival president figures he can buy all of the railroad's rolling stock at a reduced price.

Bruce discovers the plot just hours before his father, Mr. Harrington, will sign the railroad over to the bad guys. He tried to telegraph his father, but a storm has caused the telegraph to fail. In fact, the storm has knocked out all forms of communication.

In a twist of fate, the only way Bruce can advise his father not to sign the papers is to fire-up have train number 101, bring Smoky Nolan and his fireman out of retirement, and somehow try to highball back to the central office to prevent his father from signing. The train travels through the storm-savaged countryside encountering floods, landslides, and other hazards.  Bruce arrives just in the nick of time, advising his father to nix the deal.  He exposes the plot by the rival railroad, including how the bad guys constructed a piece of equipment and disguised it like an engine with headlights. They placed it on a nearby track causing Smoky to think he was heading towards a collision with an oncoming train.  Hence, the name - the phantom express.

During their investigation, Bruce and Carolyn fell in love.  They decide to get married. After they tie-the-knot, they honeymoon on the train.

####Pictureland####
Americans arrive at their hotel in Cuba in a car, to make a movie. Romantic complications ensue while the cast and crew attempt to finish the movie.

####The Psychedelic Priest####
John, a Christian priest, says goodbye to his profession and takes a destinationless drive. He gets acquainted with a female hitchhiker, Sunny, who soon falls in love with him. However, John does not feel the same towards her and leaves, returning to work at the church.

####The Rainmaker####
During the Depression era in the Midwest, con man Bill Starbuck acts as a rainmaker, but is chased out of town after town.  One day, he arrives in a drought-ridden rural town in Kansas and shows up at the door of spinsterish Lizzie Curry and the rest of the Curry clan. Lizzie keeps house for her father, H.C., and two brothers on the family cattle ranch.  As their farm languishes under the devastating drought, Lizzie's family worries about her marriage prospects more than about their dying cattle. Prior to Starbuck's arrival, Lizzie was expecting Sheriff File, for whom she harbors a secret yen, though he declined the family's invitation to dinner. Starbuck promises to bring rain in exchange for money.  Against Lizzie's protests, H.C. goes for the deal out of desperation for rain even though he thinks Starbuck is a con. Starbuck is exposed, but the Curry clan stands up for him, leading to both Starbuck and File finally declaring for Lizzie. In the end, Lizzie gets her man, and of course, it rains.

####Red Margaret, Moonshiner####
"Red" Margaret is the leader of a band of mountain moonshiners who have thwarted every attempt of the authorities to capture them. A government agent is sent up to the hills to assist in breaking up the gang, and Margaret falls in love with him. Lon, Margaret's moonshiner boyfriend, discovers the identity of the government agent and forces Margaret to write a letter which lures him to her cabin. Fearing for his safety, the girl notifies the authorities of the agent's danger. The police arrive and capture the moonshiners. Margaret's father is killed in the melee, and the agent is left behind, wounded. A deputy tries to take credit for the capture, but Margaret helps the injured agent get back to the sheriff's office and pretends that she is his prisoner. The agent is honored for his work and Margaret is sent off to prison, a happy woman.

####Ringside Maisie####
While on her way to a dancing job at a resort, Maisie Ravier is thrown off the train for not having enough money to pay the fare. She is given a ride to the resort by up-and-coming boxer Terry Dolan. Dolan's suspicious manager, "Skeets" Maguire, offends Maisie by telling her that he does not want her "sort" around his protege, despite Terry already having a girlfriend. As Skeets gets to know Maisie better, he realizes his mistake, and he and Maisie fall in love.

When Maisie rejects the romantic advances of Ricky Du Prez, her employer and dancing partner, she is fired. Terry asks her to be the companion to his mother, a wheelchair user. When she accepts the job, Terry asks her to hide his profession from Mrs. Dolan, who believes he is a razor blade salesman. Maisie disapproves of lying, but agrees.

Terry confides a secret to Maisie: he hates and fears boxing, and would rather run a grocery store just like his late father did. Since he will have enough money to buy a store after the next fight, Maisie encourages him to tell Skeets. Skeets surprises Maisie by telling Terry that he has an ironclad contract, and insisting that Terry will take on the champion after the next bout. Maisie ends her relationship with Skeets.

Discouraged, Terry fights poorly and is knocked out in the sixth round. He receives a concussion, and when he comes round he is blind. Maisie brings Mrs. Dolan to the hospital.  Dolan tells his mother that there are only three specialists in the whole country who are qualified to repair the damage, but it will take all of his savings. Mrs. Dolan is concerned only about his welfare, and is not concerned about his violent profession.  The operation is a success. When Maisie discovers that Skeets flew to Boston personally to fetch the specialist, they reconcile.

####Road to Nowhere####
A promising young filmmaker named Mitchell Haven invites Laurel Graham, an unknown actress, to play Velma Duran, a person involved in a financial scandal that made headlines, in his new film. The director falls in love with his muse, and the sordid criminal affair on which the film is based resurfaces.

####Romeo & Juliet: Sealed with a Kiss####
Warring Capulets herd (Michael Toland) and Montagues herd (Stephen Goldberg), portrayed as Steller sea lions and California sea lions respectively, have their feud watched in horror and astonishment by Capulet's only daughter, Juliet (Patricia Trippett). A fight on the shore is ended when the prince (Phil Nibbelink), a large and monstrous elephant seal, appears and warns the two groups that, if there is any more disturbance, the seal who caused it shall be exiled to Shark Island where his henchman Sharky the Great White Shark lives. Romeo (Daniel Tripett), Montague's only son, is depressed, wishing to fall in love with someone. His humorous friend, Mercutio (Chip Albers), urges him and another of his friends, Benvolio (Sam Gold), to go to a Capulet party later that evening. They attend the party, covered in white sand to look like Capulets, and Romeo falls in love with Juliet at first sight. Juliet, however, was promised by her father to marry the Prince, who attends the party. Romeo and his friends manage to wreak havoc, and are revealed to be Montagues. Later that evening, the play's balcony scene is recreated on a cliff on the beach where a tree grows. Romeo promises Juliet that they shall marry the next morning, and she will not have to marry the Prince.

Romeo begs Friar Lawrence, a sea otter, to wed them. After some thought, the friar believes their marriage will end the feud between their families, and agrees. Romeo and Juliet are wed that morning and traverse the sea in their happiness. However, even the other sea and land animals strongly oppose their being together. A kissing fish named Kissy finds them a lovely couple, but warns them that they will be in big trouble if the Prince finds out. Back on the beach, Mercutio is telling many jokes, which leads to him making insulting jokes against the Capulets, and the Prince is headed in that direction. When he arrives, Mercutio mocks him as well. Romeo rushes to aid his friend, but after a struggle Mercutio falls off the cliff where Juliet met Romeo the previous evening, and everyone thinks that he is dead. The Prince, jealous of Juliet's affection for Romeo, exiles Romeo to Shark Island. In despair, Juliet seeks the Friar's help, and he gives her a potion to put her in a deathlike state. Mercutio is revealed to be alive and sees the whole thing, remarking, "What a tangled web we weave."

Lawrence shows the Capulet seals that Juliet is "dead", right as they were celebrating the marriage. But Benvolio sees her as well, and swims to Shark Island to tell Romeo. The Friar chases him to stop him, but is attacked by Sharky. After receiving the terrible news from Benvolio, Romeo heads to the shore to see if Juliet is truly dead. Friar Lawrence arrives too late and tries to follow Romeo, only to have his tail maimed  by Sharky. After an undersea chase and some help from Kissy, the fish Romeo and Juliet met earlier, Lawrence escapes and heads to the beach. A heartbroken Romeo walks past the mourning Capulets and tries to kiss Juliet, only to have some of the potion slip into his own mouth, putting him in a deathlike state as well. Two groups of seals begin to weep for their loss, and Lawrence, who has just arrived, teaches them a lesson about where hatred leads them to evil. Suddenly, Romeo and Juliet awaken, and all is well. Mercutio returns, and the prince finds a new mate, a large elephant seal like himself. The movie ends with the two families at peace, and Romeo and Juliet remaining together.

####A Royal Christmas####
Emily Taylor (Lacey Chabert) is a humble and kindhearted seamstress devoted to her family's business in Philadelphia. She is also in love with her European boyfriend Leo James (Stephen Hagan). As the Christmas season approaches, Leo reveals that he is in fact Prince Leopold, heir to the throne of a small sovereign country called Cordinia, which is loosely based on Monaco (but amalgamates the place names, Corsica and Sardinia). He takes Emily back to his country for the Christmas holidays and introduces her to his mother Isadora, Queen of Cordinia (Jane Seymour), who disapproves of the young American immediately. Wanting her son to marry a duchess named Natasha—Leo's ex-girlfriend—whom she finds more suitable than a commoner, the Queen goes out of her way to make Emily feel unwelcome at their castle.

Emily tries to adapt to her new royal surroundings, but feels more comfortable with the castle's butlers and housemaids than she does with her boyfriend's royal family and friends. While in town with Leopold buying Christmas Trees, Emily befriends Poppy, a little orphan girl.  Emily is then befriended by Galina, the Baroness of Newbury who she later finds out used to be a commoner like herself.  Galina also takes to Poppy right away.  The conflict comes to a head when the scheming Queen secretly invites the duchess to the castle for Christmas. With the help of the head butler Victor (Simon Dutton), Emily is schooled in etiquette and then makes a grand entrance at the Christmas ball in a dress she designed herself out of the Queen's old gown. Her happiness is cut short, however, when the Queen discovers her talking with two of the kitchen staff whom she fires immediately. Later, when Leo proposes marriage, Emily, realizing she doesn't fit in, turns down his offer and returns to America.

Sometime later, the Queen realizes all the hurt she's caused and remembers her feelings of love for Victor, whose love she rejected years earlier because he was a commoner. Looking to make up for the hurt that she caused, the Queen accompanies her son and Victor to Philadelphia and watches as Leo proposes once again—and this time Emily accepts.  The movie ends with Leopold and Emily's wedding with Poppy in attendance with the Baron and Baroness of Newbury who have presumably adopted her.

####Royal Hearts####
Hank Pavlik (James Brolin) is the head of a ranch in Montana while his daughter Kelly (Cindy Busby) is an assistant professor at Montana State University who is a hopeless romantic. One day, a solicitor named Mr. Grimsby (Howard Crossley) arrives to deliver Hank the news that involves them having to go to Merania. When they arrive, they learn that Hank is the heir to the crown of Merania after a relative of theirs named King Viktor had died. As Kelly persuades her father to take the title, she meets the royal stable boy named Alex (Andrew Cooper). Hank helps to improve Merania when the neighboring kingdom of Angosia led by King Nikolas (Lachlan Nieboer) plans to claim ownership of Merania if Hank is not into remaining its king as it was mentioned that Merania and Angosia used to be one country centuries ago.

####The Royal Treatment####
Izzy (Isabella) is a hairdresser. One day, the microwave in her salon causes a fire. The assistant of the salon's landlord, Doug, asks for payment for the damage so she gives the money she had saved for traveling the world.

The prince of Lavania, Prince Thomas, asks his assistant Walter to schedule a haircut. Walter mistakenly calls up Izzy's salon, telling her that she will be paid $500 for the haircut. Izzy agrees. When she meets the prince and starts cutting his hair, a housekeeper comes with tea and accidentally drops it. Izzy is upset at how badly the housekeeper is treated and leaves without finishing the Prince's haircut. She returns to the salon, where Thomas comes in to finish the haircut. Afterward, Izzy agrees to walk the prince back to the metro and the two share a fun night.

The next day Thomas, his fiancée Lauren, and her mother discuss who to hire as the makeup artists for the wedding. Walter recommends Izzy's salon. Lauren and her mother agree and Izzy and her friends travel to Lavania. They'll get $50,000 dollars as payment for the royal wedding. Another assistant, Madam Fabre, tests their makeup skills. Izzy passes but her coworkers don't so Madam Fabre trains them. Izzy goes to see the province and Thomas accompanies her. They have fun at the Uber de glares which is considered by the royals as a 'dangerous' part of town.

The next day, Thomas states to his family that he wants to do more for the locals. Izzy encourages the locals to donate to the less fortunate children by leaving items at the castle gate. Lauren tells Thomas that she wants part of their new estate to be for her work studio. Thomas finds the guard house full of donated toys for the children. He also decides to donate some royal furniture that the queen threw out. Izzy and Thomas drive the toys and some royal furniture to the orphanage.

Lauren's mother observes that Thomas and Izzy are getting too close. Lauren is not concerned, commenting that she would rather focus on her business ideas than marry someone she barely knows. When a photo of them ends up in the papers, Izzy is asked to leave. It is revealed that the reason why the King and Queen want Thomas to marry Lauren is because her family could help them get out of debt.

On the wedding day, Walter tells Thomas that he knows Thomas is in love with Izzy. Thomas tells Lauren he can't marry her. She is relieved as she also does not want to get married. Izzy returns to find that there was a major fire in the salon. When Doug visits asking for money, she tells him that she had spoken with the owner, who had expected Doug to rewire the property last year. The family makes plans to refurbish the salon but Izzy tells them she doesn't want to work at the salon anymore, instead choosing to be director of a local community center.

As Izzy gazes at the road from her house fire exit, she hears horse hooves. Prince Thomas rides to Izzy's house on horseback and confesses his feelings for her. They kiss. The movie ends with them going to get gelato on horseback.

####Running for Grace####
The film is set in the Kona Coffee Belt of Hawaii during the 1920s. Japanese immigrant laborers and the white upperclass live in a rigidly classist society. Jo (played as a child by Cole Takiue), an orphan of mixed-race lineage, finds himself ostracized by both groups until Doc (Matt Dillon), a white doctor from the mainland, is hired as a physician for workers on the plantation owned by Mr. Danielson (Nick Boraine). Doc has Jo run medicine and translate for him on the island.

Ten years later, Jo (Ryan Potter) falls in love with the plantation owner's daughter, Grace (Olivia Ritchie). They interact a few times at the Danielson's home under the guise of treating her ankle injury. Mr. Danielson meets a new doctor, Dr. Reyes (Jim Caviezel), and invites him to tend to the white upperclass residents of the island, even as his company is going bankrupt. Throughout this time, Doc has been taking several secret trips to see a lawyer in Hilo  about formally adopting Jo, even though it was illegal at that time to adopt a mixed-race child. Jo at first is impressed by the new doctor and his car, a Ford Model T, and asks him to take him on as an assistant. However, when they go to treat Mr. Danielson's accountant, who had poisoned himself as a suicide attempt, Jo realizes that the doctor is a charlatan. Dr. Reyes later expresses a romantic interest in Grace, and her father, seeing it as an opportunity to save his plantation and way of life, encourages the proposal.

Mr. Danielson sets out on a trip to Hilo to discuss his looming bankruptcy with the bank, intending to inform them that Grace is marrying into a wealthy family. Along the way, he accidentally falls into a ditch and hits his head. Doc and Jo are the first to reach him and, on inspection, Doc fears Mr. Danielson's head injury is severe. He tells Jo to find Dr. Reyes so that they can use his motorcar to transport him. At his home, Mr. Danielson and his mother (Juliet Mills) insist Dr. Reyes treat his injury and that Doc and Jo leave. Moments later, Grace comes crying out of the house announcing that her father is dead. Grace's grandmother and Dr. Reyes watch Grace and Jo embrace, and Grace's grandmother scolds Grace and pulls her away.

That night, Doc and Jo are walking back to their house. Along the way, Dr. Reyes purposefully chases them in his car and tries to run them over. Doc manages to push Jo out of the way, but gets hit himself and dies shortly afterward. Dr. Reyes threatens to kill Jo if he doesn't leave town. Later, Jo returns to his mother's house and is found by the Hilo lawyer who informs him that Doc's adoption was a success. Jo runs to the scheduled wedding between Dr. Reyes and Grace and asks for her hand in marriage. Grace's caretaker of several years, Miss Hanabusa (Rumi Oyama), approves the proposal and informs everyone that Mr. Danielson was bankrupt.

####The Saint####
At the Saint Ignatius Orphanage, a rebellious boy named John Rossi refers to himself as "Simon Templar" and leads fellow orphans in an attempt to run away. He tries to bid farewell to a girl named Agnes with a kiss, but they are caught and she accidentally falls from a balcony to her death.

As an adult, Simon — now a professional thief dubbed "The Saint" for using Catholic saints as aliases — steals a microchip from a Russian oil company. Simon stages the burglary during a political rally for the company's owner Ivan Tretiak, a billionaire oligarch and former Communist Party boss rallying support against Russian President Karpov. Simon is caught by Tretiak's son Ilya but escapes with the microchip, and is hired by Tretiak to steal a revolutionary cold fusion formula discovered by Emma Russell, an American electrochemist working at Oxford; Tretiak plans to use Emma's formula for clean, inexpensive energy to monopolize the energy market during a severe oil shortage in Russia.

Using the alias "Thomas More", Simon poses as a Boer traveller to seduce Emma, and steals the formula after a one-night stand. Tretiak realizes the formula is incomplete and sends Ilya and his henchmen to kill Simon, who narrowly escapes. Simon returns to Russia to demand his payment from Tretiak while disguised as Tretiak himself. A heartbroken Emma reports the theft of her formula to Inspectors Teal and Rabineau of Scotland Yard, who inform her Simon is a wanted international thief.

Emma tracks down Simon to a Moscow hotel where Tretiak has them arrested, but they escape and flee through the suburbs. They are sheltered by a prostitute and her family and meet Frankie, a Spiv who sells them directions through the sewers to the U.S. embassy. Finding Ilya and his men waiting for them, Simon lets himself be caught to allow Emma to safely reach the embassy, then escapes after igniting a car’s gas tank and leaving Ilya severely burned.

Planting a listening device in Tretiak's office, Simon learns he plans to sell the incomplete formula to Karpov and frame him for wasting billions on useless technology, then use the political fallout to install himself as president. Emma finishes the formula, which Simon delivers to Tretiak's  well-meaning physicist Dr. Lev Botvin, who builds an apparatus that proves the formula works. Simon infiltrates the Kremlin and informs Karpov of Tretiak's conspiracy, but they are captured by Tretiak loyalists. At a massive gathering in Red Square, Tretiak makes his accusations against Karpov, but Botvin’s cold fusion reactor is successfully initiated, exposing Tretiak as a fraud. He and Ilya are arrested, and revealed to have caused the heating-oil shortage by stockpiling vast amounts of oil underneath their mansion.

Reuniting with Emma, Simon returns her formula and they start a secret relationship. She presents her formula to the world at a news conference, which Simon attends in disguise and escapes Teal and Rabineau when they spot him in the crowd. Driving away, he hears a news broadcast (voiced by Roger Moore) that $3 billion was donated to the Red Cross, Salvation Army, and the United Nations Children's Fund; it is implied that Simon, who had access to Tretiak's accounts, gave the money anonymously and established a non-profit foundation led by Dr. Botvin to develop the cold-fusion technology.

####Seven Doors to Death####
At the Hamilton Court shops in Los Angeles, a shot rings out in a darkened apartment. A woman (June Clyde) screams and flees, seeing a car driven by architect Jimmy McMillan (Chick Chandler). She orders him at gunpoint to speed away, in the rush to get away. The car crashes, but the woman disappears. After returning to the scene, McMillan finds a corpse and calls Capt. William Jaffe (Michael Raffetto). By the time the police arrive, the corpse has mysteriously changed to that of a different victim.

The Police Captain recognizes the dead man as Mary Rawling's lawyer. Summoning Rawlings, the owner of the Hamilton Court, McMillan immediately sees that she was the woman in his car. Her alibi does not seem convincing to Jaffe or McMillan, who decides to start his own investigation, starting with the shopkeepers at the Hamilton Court. Antique dealer Donald Adams (Milton Wallace), recalls on the night of the murder, a rare Egyptian chest was stolen from his shop. When McMillan finds the stolen chest, he also finds the man who was killed.

Another suspect, the silversmith Claude Burns (Edgar Dearing) is killed, and as furrier Charles Eaton (George Meeker) becomes involved, Mary is arrested but she is convinced that she is being framed. Ultimately, a confrontation between her accusers leads to the discovery of stolen jewels and the real culprit.

####The Soul of Buddha####
As described in a film magazine, fascinated by the lure of white robes and dancing, Bava (Bara) enters the Temple of Buddha. She is soon disillusioned and, yielding to the entreaties of Major John Dare (Thompson) of the British army, she flees with him and becomes his wife, incurring the enmity of Ysora (Kennard), high priest from the temple. A child is born to the two but is later found dead with the Buddhist death mark on its forehead. This withers the soul of Bava, who leads her husband around the globe in search of happiness. Hardened by sorrow, she turns against Dare and bids him gone. At a Paris resort she meets a theatrical manager (Warwick) who is fascinated by her dancing. She accepts an offer to appear at his theater. At the night of her premiere her husband attempts a reconciliation, but is unsuccessful and kills himself in her dressing room. At the end of her dance Bava meets her death at the hands of Ysora.

####The Spender####
The lead actress cures a wayward young man of his lavish spending.

####The Spirit of the USA####
Emilie Johnson claimed Woodrow Wilson inspired this story. This film takes place during World War I.


Thomas Gains Carl Stockdale and his wife, Mary Mary Carr, play a couple living on a farm with their two sons.  Her oldest son is Johnnie, played by Johnnie Walker.  Her youngest son is named Silas, played by Cuyler Supplee.

In April 1917, the U.S. joined the allies, declares war against Germany, and enters World War I. Overwhelmed with a sense of duty, Johnnie immediately wants to enlist in the Army.  He is rejected.  He then enlists in the Salvation Army and is shipped to Europe. His lazy, cowardly brother shrugs his duty, takes over the farm, and marries Zelda Burrows, played by Rosemary Cooper. Zelda's father, John Burrows, played by Mark Fenton, wants to acquire the Gains farm to build a dam – legally or otherwise.

Zelda teases Silas for staying home during the war.  Showing Zelda, he's not a coward, Silas enlists in the Army. Silas is shipped to France and dies on the battlefield.  Learning of her husband's death, Zelda takes control of the farm. Her father's lawyer, Jim Fuller, played by Dave Kirby, claims  Johnnie has also been killed in Europe.  Zelda promptly evicts Thomas and Mary from their home.  Then Zelda claims the farm along with her father.  Her father starts to build his dam.

Suddenly, Johnnie returns home.  Everyone thought he had died in battle.  After his return, he starts to restore order. Johnnie tosses Zelda off the farm, blows up the dam, and restores his parents' property. Then Johnnie finds out his sweetheart – Gretchen played by Gloria Grey has been waiting for him. Johnnie marries Gretchen, and they live happily ever after.

####The Sporting Lover####
During the First World War an American officer and a British aristocrat fall in love but are separated. After the war he returns to find her engaged to another man. The issue is settled by a bet on The Derby horse race.

Captain Terrance Connaughton loses his stable of horses in a card game with Algernon Cravens. The next day he is wounded and taken to a military hospital where he meets and falls in love with Lady Gwendolyn. After an attack on the hospital Captain Terrence and Lady Gwen are separated for a while until the end of the war, where Terrance returns home without anything. To Captain Terrences surprise, Cravens, has made Lady Gwen promise to marry him and has entered the horses he won from Terrance in the National Derby. Terrance goes to London to attend the Derby and sees Lady Gwen again. The importance of the derby is ultimately based on who Lady Gwen can be with.

####The Sporting Venus####
As described in a film magazine review, Scotch heiress Lady Gwendolyn is in love with a commoner, medical student Donald MacAllan, but the match is disapproved by her father. A misunderstanding develops and she has romance with the continental Prince Carlos, a nobleman who pretends to be wealthy. In an attempt to forget her unhappiness, she seeks diversion in famous watering places and other climes. Eventually she learns the true character of the nobleman and effects a reconciliation with Donald.

####Tequila Sunrise####
Dale "Mac" McKussic is a former drug dealer trying to go straight. His close friend Nick Frescia is a Detective Lieutenant with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department who, in spite of their long-term relationship going back to high school, is duty-bound to bring Mac to justice if he should sell drugs again, as DEA  Agent Hal Maguire believes to be the case.

Mac is attracted to stylish restaurant owner Jo Ann Vallenari. Nick becomes acquainted with her while attempting to learn more about Mac's activities, in particular his relationship with the Mexican drug kingpin Carlos, whom the DEA agents and Mexican federal police commandante' Escalante believe is coming to town. Mac has a legitimate business and is raising a son, trying to distance himself from his former drug smuggling ways. But he tries to help his lawyer sell some cocaine, and feels indebted to his old friend Carlos, who is pressuring him to do one last job.

Jo Ann succumbs to Nick's charms and a love affair begins. He genuinely cares for her, but she becomes angry when Mac accuses her of spying on him for Nick. During a meeting at Jo Ann's restaurant with Maguire and Escalante to discuss Mac and Carlos, Escalante gives Nick a ceremonial pistol as a gesture of good faith. Jo Ann then accuses Nick of using her to gather information on Mac because he often eats at her restaurant, and hired her to cater his son's birthday party.

Nick admits he is investigating Mac and that he originally approached her because of that. But he truthfully admits that he really has fallen in love with her. Jo Ann ends her relationship with Nick for his initial deception after catching him trying to listen in on a private telephone conversation. Meanwhile, Maguire and his associates set a trap for Mac and the mysterious Carlos, whose face none of them, except Mac, has ever seen.

In time, Jo Ann realizes that Mac is in love with her and that she has fallen for him. Nick figures out that Mac's cousin Gregg is an informer for the DEA. He also realizes that Maguire has become dangerously obsessed with catching Mac, willing to use any means necessary. Mac and Jo Ann make love at his house.

Jo Ann is called to her restaurant on business. Nick meets her there, gives her a pistol (the same ceremonial pistol he was given by Escalante) for protection, and tells her to stay in her restaurant until a deputy sheriff arrives to guard her, because Carlos is expected to arrive at Mac's home later that night. She does not heed Nick's warning and returns to Mac's house, where she discovers that Escalante is, in fact, Carlos.

Carlos relieves her of Nick's pistol, recognizing it, and then takes her to his yacht at the marina. He knows that Gregg is the informer and has him killed, leaving his body next to a shipment of gasoline contaminated cocaine. Maguire and Nick find Gregg's body and the cocaine at the beach. Nick meets with Mac to warn him that Jo Ann is in danger.

Mac pulls a gun on Nick and rushes to the marina. Carlos pressures him to kill Jo Ann because she now knows too much. He refuses, threatens Carlos at gunpoint and gets Jo Ann to safety on a speedboat. Mac nevertheless promises him that he will be at the rendezvous site as arranged to conclude their business.

Nick explains to Maguire that Escalante is actually Carlos and heads for the marina. Mac arrives first and is double-crossed by Carlos, whereupon a fight ensues between them. As they struggle over the pistol, it fatally discharges into Carlos's abdomen, wounding Mac in the process. Carlos dies in Mac's arms.

Maguire shows up and begins shooting, hitting an already dead Carlos in the face, and then at Mac as he is raising his hands to surrender. The gunfire causes the boat's fuel tank to catch fire, just as Mac jumps in the water. Nick arrives at the marina. Hearing the gunfire, he draws his weapon and orders Maguire to cease fire. He continues shooting, forcing Nick to shoot him in the back, killing him. The fire causes the boat to explode, and with it the millions of dollars on board.

The film ends with Nick asking Jo Ann to meet him at the beach. She arrives to instead find Mac, and runs to embrace him in the waves. A pleased Nick watches from a distance.

####The Third Alarm####
The action starts as someone trips a Fire alarm call box. Then, the fire station alarm bell clangs, a fire dispatcher utters, "We roll - Third and Western." All the firefighters spring into action. We pay particular attention to engine number seven, a Steam pumper, manned by an aging fireman.  The doors fling open, and the two horse-drawn fire engines barrel down the street to fight the fire. The firefighter driving engine number seven is Dan McDowell. Dan is a twenty-year veteran of the force. Dan not only drives engine number seven but also cares for the station's five fire horses.

At the McDowell house, which stands caddy-corner from the fire station, mother McDowell is frosting Dan's birthday cake with the couple's daughter. Alice. Johnny McDowell joins the group. Johnny is studying to become a doctor and has only a year left. We meet Johnny's sweetheart, June Rutherford.

At the fire station house, the battalion chief drives up and tells the boys they will motorize the station first. All the men cheer, except Dan. Dan goes home to attend his birthday party.
The day of the changeover arrives. The fire crew watches the new motorized Steam pumper pull in. Later, the chief sells the five fire horses. Dan must now learn to drive the new motorized engine. He struggles to master driving skills. Unable to drive the new rig, the chief retires Dan McDowell on a small pension.

Dan's foremost concern now is Johnny's medical career.  Dan tells Johnny he hasn't got enough money to support his medical studies. Johnny tells his father not to worry because his sweetheart is the daughter of a famous surgeon - Dr. Loren Rutherford.

Dan tells Johnny when he was young, his brother got sick.  The boy's physician told Dan that only one man could save the boy - Dr. Loren Rutherford. Dan storms into Dr. Rutherford's office and pleads with the Dr. to save his boy.  Dr. Rutherford says he can't save Dan's son because he must save another life first.  Dan tells Johnny he will never forget that Dr. Rutherford let his young brother die.

To make ends meet, Dan gets a job as a ditch digger. While working one day, he notices Bullet nuzzling up against him. Bullet had been pulling a dirt wagon but visited Dan. Bullet's supervisor finds his horse and abuses the animal. Dan tries to stop him but is beat up.  Johnny happens upon the altercation and beats up Bullet's handler.  After threatening the supervisor, Johnny forces Dan to quit this job. Johnny decides to lifts Dan's financial burdens.  He drops out of medical school and applies for a job at the fire station. The chief knows Johnny and makes him a firefighter.

The next day, the police arrive at the McDowell household.  They claim a fire horse is missing and blame Johnny. The police have a search warrant and find "Bullet" in Dan's shed. The police demand to know where Johnny is.  Dan confesses to the crime to save his son.  The police take Dan to jail.

A fire breaks out in the Rutherford apartment building.  June Rutherford lives on the top floor. She evacuates with the other residents when she discovers her small dog is missing.  She goes back into the flaming building but becomes trapped by the flames.

Johnny is at the fire station when the fire bell clangs.  He finds out the fire is at the new Rutherford apartments. The dispatcher says they only respond if it becomes a third alarm. Freddie is selling newspapers when he reads about Dan's arrest for a horse thief. He rushes to the fire station and tells the chief he found Bullet on the street and locked him up in Dan's woodshed. The chief says he will free Dan.

Meanwhile, at the fire, they call in a third alarm.  June finds a balcony and starts screaming for help. The nearest fire truck raises a ladder to rescue her, but the ladder is too short.  A fireman scrambles up the ladder–it is Johnny trying to save June. The apartment walls are collapsing, and the battalion chief orders his men to safety. The wall supporting the end of the ladder collapses, but Johnny hooks a Scaling ladder to the balcony railing and rescues June. Now they must descend to ground level. While June and the dog hang on to his back, he descends to the balcony below.

Dan has secured his release from Prison and rushes to the scene of the fire.  He helps his fellow firemen handle the hoses. A large safe smashes through the apartment floors. Johnny and June survived the fall, but the safe has blocked their escape.

Meanwhile, Dr. Rutherford finds Dan and begs him to save his daughter. Dan has flashbacks about his adolescent son. He brushes the Doctor aside.  Bullet, working the night shift, hears the fire alarm, breaks free of his reins, and heads towards the flames. Dan is struggling with a way to save Johnny and June when Bullet shows up.

Dan knows a way to save the couple.  He mounts Bullet, rides through the flames, arrives at the spot, and starts throwing ropes around the safe.  Dan then urges Bullet to pull the safe free. Bullet frees Johnny and June.

The fire is controlled, and the scene switches to a farmhouse in the country. Dan finds out that Dr. Rutherford has bought a small farm with enough pasture to take care of all the fire horses; Dan will become the caretaker. It fades out with Dan holding Bullet.

####Those Lips, Those Eyes####
In the early 1950s, a star-struck Ohio boy, Artie Shoemaker, skips school to work behind the scenes for a touring stock theatrical company.

Inept at his job, Artie is nearly fired until the star of the show, Harry Crystal, takes a liking to him and takes the kid under his wing. Artie becomes smitten with one of the attractive chorus girls from the show, Ramona, a worldly young woman who provides his sexual initiation. But soon the show must move on to another town, leaving Artie alone with his dreams.

####Tiger Rose####
As described in a film magazine review, Trooper Michael Devlin of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police saves the life of Rose Bocion. She is an orphan, the ward of factor Hector McCollins. She falls in love with Bruce Norton. Norton slays a man who betrayed his sister and was the cause of his father's death. Aided by Dr. Cusick, who later turns out to be the husband of Norton's sister, Rose helps Norton to escape. Trooper Devlin finally arrests Norton, but he is later freed and later marries Rose.

####Trader Horn####
The film depicts the adventures of real-life trader and adventurer Alfred Aloysius "Trader" Horn (Harry Carey), while on safari in Africa. Much of the film is fictional, including the discovery of a white blonde jungle queen, the lost daughter of a missionary (Edwina Booth). A scene based upon a genuine incident occurs in which Carey as Horn swings on a vine across a river filled with genuine crocodiles, one of which comes very close to taking his leg off.

####True Romance####
At a Detroit theater showing kung fu films, Alabama Whitman strikes up a conversation with Elvis Presley fanatic Clarence Worley. They later have sex at his downtown apartment. Alabama tearfully confesses that she is a call girl hired by his boss as a birthday present but has fallen in love with him. The two get married the next day at City Hall. An apparition of Elvis visits Clarence and convinces him to kill Alabama's abusive pimp, Drexl Spivey. Going to the brothel where Alabama worked, he shoots and kills Drexl and takes a bag he assumes contains Alabama's belongings. Back at the apartment, he and Alabama discover it contains a large amount of cocaine that Drexl had stolen from two drug pushers.

The couple visits Clarence's estranged father Clifford, a retired cop, for help. He tells Clarence the police assume Drexl's murder is a gang killing committed in revenge for the murdered dealers. After the couple leave for Los Angeles, Clifford is interrogated by Vincenzo Coccotti, "consigliere" to mobster "Blue Lou Boyle", who had hired Drexl to steal and distribute the cocaine on his behalf. He reveals that the mob knows about Clarence's theft since they found his driver's license near Drexl's body. Clifford, realizing he will die anyway, mockingly defies Coccotti, who shoots him dead. One of his men then finds an LA address taped to Clifford's refrigerator.

In LA, Clarence and Alabama meet Clarence's aspiring actor friend Dick Ritchie, who introduces him to actor and production assistant Elliot Blitzer. He reluctantly agrees to broker the sale of the drugs to his boss, legendary film producer Lee Donowitz. While Clarence is out buying lunch, Coccotti's enforcer Virgil finds Alabama in her motel room and beats her for information. Alabama fights back, using hairspray to set fire to Virgil's clothes and putting nail polish in his eyes before grabbing his sawn-off shotgun, stabbing him with a corkscrew, and shooting him to death in a maniacal rage. Clarence tends to her wounds, and they discuss their future together.

Elliot is pulled over for speeding and gets charged when his mistress spills a bag of cocaine after he tries to hide it in her dress. To stay out of jail, he agrees to wear a wire and record the drug deal between Clarence and Donowitz for police detectives Dimes and Nicholson. Coccotti's men also learn about where the deal will take place from Dick's stoner roommate Floyd. Clarence, Alabama, Dick, and Elliot go to Donowitz's suite at the Ambassador Hotel with the drugs. In the elevator, a suspicious Clarence threatens Elliot at gunpoint but is persuaded by Elliot's pleading for mercy.

Clarence fabricates a story for Donowitz that the drugs were given to him by a corrupt cop, and he agrees to the sale. Excusing himself to the bathroom, the vision of Elvis reassures him that things are going well. Donowitz and his bodyguards are ambushed by the cops and the mobsters. Elliot reveals himself to be an informant by asking the cops if he could leave, whereupon a shootout erupts. Dick throws the suitcase of the drugs in the air, where it gets shredded by gunfire, and flees. Donowitz, his bodyguards, Elliot, the cops, and the mobsters are all killed, and Clarence is wounded as he exits the bathroom. He and Alabama escape with Donowitz's money as more police arrive. They flee to Mexico, where Alabama gives birth to a son, whom they name Elvis.

####Uncorked####
Johnny (Julie Benz) is a high-powered executive who is definitely not looking to fall in love but when a business conference takes her to wine country she meets a handsome widower Andrew (Scott Elrod) who invites Johnny to meet his family after she loses her job. In helping his parents' winery she begins to fall in love with him and his family but when she gets offered another job she has to choose between her career or Andrew.

####Under the Pampas Moon####
The womanizing gaucho Cesar Campo lives a carefree life on the Pampas. However, when a plane lands nearby he meets an attractive French singer and her unscrupulous fiancée who is so impressed by Cesar's horse that he arranges to have it stolen to enter in a horse race under a false name. Cesar pursues them to Buenos Aires and after a flirtation with the French singer and a series of culture clashes in sophisticated hotels and restaurants he rescues the horse and returns home.

####Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets####
In the 28th century, due to cooperation between the Earth and extraterrestrial peoples, the former International Space Station has been expanded until its mass threatens to cause gravitational disruption to Earth itself. Relocated to deep space, it becomes Alpha, a space-traveling city inhabited by millions of species from thousands of planets. A police division is created by the United Human Federation to preserve peace throughout the galaxy. Among its staff are the arrogant Major Valerian and his partner, no-nonsense Sergeant Laureline.

En route to a mission, Valerian dreams of a planet, Mül, where a low-tech humanoid race lives peacefully. They fish for pearls containing enormous amounts of energy and use animals to replicate them. Wreckage begins plummeting from the sky, followed by a huge spacecraft that causes an explosion annihilating every being on the planet. Some of the inhabitants enter a discarded vessel, accidentally trapping themselves inside, but the planet's princess Lihö-Minaa is stranded outside. Just before her death, she conveys a telepathic message.

Shaken, Valerian awakes. Analysis reveals he might have received a signal from across time and space. He learns that his mission is to retrieve a "Mül converter". It is the last of its kind, and currently in the hands of black market dealer Igon Siruss. Valerian asks Laureline to marry him, but she brushes him off.

In a marketplace on planet Kirian in an alternate dimension, Valerian disrupts a meeting between Igon and two hooded figures who resemble the humanoids from his vision. They seek the converter, the small animal in his vision. Valerian and Laureline recover the converter and steal one of the energy pearls. Aboard their ship, Valerian learns that Mül was destroyed 30 years earlier, and all information about it is classified.

They return to Alpha where commander Arün Filitt informs them the center of the station has been irradiated by an unknown force, rendering it highly toxic. Troops sent into the area have not returned, and the radiation is increasing. Laureline and Valerian are assigned to protect the commander during an interstation summit to discuss the crisis; against the commander's wishes, Laureline maintains possession of the converter.

During the summit, unidentified humanoids suddenly attack, incapacitating everyone and kidnapping Filitt. Valerian chases the kidnappers to the irradiated area but crashes his spaceplane during the pursuit. Laureline enlists alien information brokers known as Dogan Daguis to track Valerian and finds him unconscious at the edge of the irradiated zone. She rouses him, but is kidnapped by a primitive tribe, the Boulan Bathors of the planet Goara, and presented at their emperor's dinner as the choice course. Valerian infiltrates the tribe's territory with the help of the shape-shifting Bubble. They rescue Laureline and escape, but Bubble is fatally wounded.

Valerian and Laureline venture further into the irradiated area, discover it is not dangerous, and that it contains the remains of some antique spacecraft. They reach a large, shielded hall where they find the humanoids, known as the Pearls, with an unconscious Filitt. The Pearls' leader, Emperor Haban Limaï, explains that his people lived peacefully on Mül until a battle occurred between the Federation and another faction. Filitt, the human commander, ordered the use of fusion missiles that disabled the enemy mothership and sent it crashing into the planet, annihilating Mül. Upon her passing, Princess Lihö-Minaa transferred her soul into Valerian's body.

When the surviving Pearls were trapped in a downed space vehicle from the battle, they managed to repair it and learned the humans' technology and history. They eventually came to Alpha, where they assimilated more knowledge and built a ship of their own. They needed the converter and pearl in order to launch their ship and find a planet to recreate their homeworld. Filitt admits his role in the genocide, but argues it was necessary to end the war—as was the coverup, to prevent humans from losing their credibility and influence in Alpha. Valerian and Laureline disagree, arguing that the commander is trying to avoid the consequences of his actions. When Filitt becomes belligerent, Valerian knocks him out.

Valerian hands over the pearl he took from Igon, and Laureline persuades him to return the converter. While the Pearls prepare their spacecraft for takeoff, Filitt's K-Tron robot soldiers attack the Pearls and the government soldiers sent to assist Valerian, but are ultimately defeated. The spacecraft departs and Filitt is arrested. Valerian and Laureline are left adrift aboard an Apollo Command/Service Module, and Laureline answers Valerian's marriage proposal with a "maybe" as they wait for rescue.

####The Wedding Pact####
Mitch and Elizabeth get to know and befriend each other in college. Mitch falls in love with Elizabeth, but decides not to tell her. After college, Elizabeth throws a phrase that if after 10 years neither of them finds a partner in life, they will marry. After ten years, Mitch hasn't gotten married and discovers that Elizabeth hasn't either. Still remembering their promise, Mitch makes a cross country journey to visit Elizabeth.

####The West~Bound Limited####
Bernard Miller is the President of a railroad, and Lawrence Wilton is his general counselor. Both are traveling in an open car, paralleling the tracks when they see Bill Buckley's engine steaming down the rails. Miller's only daughter, Esther, and her mother ride horses in the same area. When Esther attempts to go over a level crossing, her horse gets caught in the tracks and falls. The fallen horse traps Esther. Bill Buckley's son, Johnny, sees Esther's plight from his telegraph hut. With Bill Buckley's engine bearing down, Johnny rushes to save Esther and frees her at the last second. A grateful Esther gives Johnny her horse, and their close encounter has prompted romantic feelings in Esther. After watching the rescue, Miller tells Wilton he plans to reward the Buckley family with a house.

The following morning, Wilton drives the Millers to the passenger depot for an arranged trip to San Francisco. As Wilton is leaving, a man approaches him and demands money. He threatens Wilton by claiming he will "spill the beans about you and your kid." Wilton gives him cash and rides off. Wilton visits Buckley's home and shows Mrs. Buckley the deed to their new home. Mrs. Buckley tells Wilton to keep the gift a secret because she wants to surprise her husband.

When Bill Buckley comes to work, he learns he has a new crew member &ndash; Collins. The crewman is the same man who extorted Wilton for cash. Buckley mounts his engine along with Collins and starts his daily run. Buckley notices Collins take a quick drink from a bottle he had concealed. Collins offers Buckley a drink, which he refuses, and a struggle ensues with Buckley finally tossing the bottle out of the cab. Buckley's Westbound 99 arrives two hours early, and Collins is drunk. A supervisor sees a drunken Collins and fires him. Collins blames Buckley and swears revenge.

Johnny's dog appears at the Miller home. Esther sees the dog and comes up with a plan to see Johnny. She attaches a note to the dog's collar, telling Johnny to look for smoke from the chimney. It will be a signal that Wilton has left the house. The dog returns to Johnny's shack. Johnny reads the request and smiles.

At the Miller home, Wilton tells the housemaid to "Have Sylvester bring the roadster around for me — then he can take you marketing in the other car."  Esther hears Wilton's request and starts stacking wood in the fireplace. Wilton has second thoughts, realizing that he will be alone with Esther if he remains. He returns to the house as Esther lights a fire in the fireplace. Wilton asks her if she would like to drive to town, but she declines. He shuts the door, walks over to Esther, and tries to kiss her. Esther resists Wilton's advances. Wilton grabs her and throws her on the couch. She screams and continues struggling while smoking logs burn in the fireplace. Johnny sees the smoke and starts galloping toward the house. Johnny arrives at the Miller house and senses Esther's in trouble.

He goes inside Miller's home and rushes toward the source of the screams. He breaks down the door, finds Wilton trying to assault Esther, and the two men struggle. Wilton draws a pistol, and a shot rings out. Bill Buckley is walking up to the front porch of the Miller house. Buckley wants to inquire about his old home when he hears a gunshot. Buckley runs inside and discovers his son and Wilton grappling with a gun. He takes the pistol out of Wilton's hands and threatens him. Johnny calms his dad, then leaves with Esther. Bill Buckley and Esther drive off in the roadster, trailing Johnny mounted on his horse. Johnny leads his dad to their new home. Johnny tells his dad that Esther's father gave them the house, but Mrs. Buckley wants to surprise him. Mother Buckley and their adopted son, Henry, rush out to greet them.

The Millers are relaxing in a San Francisco hotel. Mr. Miller receives a letter from Esther. She begs the couple to return home. The following morning, Wilton discovers the Millers are returning home on a special train. Collins shows up at the house. He confronts Wilton, saying he needs more cash because Buckley fired him. Wilton hatches a nefarious plan.

Bill Buckley's Westbound 99 will steam down the mainline in one direction. In contrast, Miller's special train 66 will travel down the same track from the opposite direction. Since Miller's special will have priority, Johnny Buckley will have to signal his father to stop and move his train to a siding. The two trains will collide if Johnny fails, killing Bill Buckley and the Millers. They will blame Johnny for the crash. Wilton will assume the presidency of the railroad and become Esther's guardian.

Johnny receives instructions from the dispatcher to flag down "99" and park his train. Johnny promptly raises the red light. However, Collins climbs the signal pole and covers the red light with a green filter. As Bill Buckley steams down the track, he sees the green light and blows past the stop signal. Johnny telegraphs the dispatcher, "99" missed the stop signal, and he will take a shortcut to flag down the trains. Johnny mounts his horse and gallops into the darkness. Soon he reaches the edge of a steep embankment. He must reach the bottom of the hill to flag the trains. The horse stumbles as they descend, and both somersault down the hill. When Johnny hits the bottom, he has a broken leg. Since the injury prevents him from signaling the trains, he lights a fire. He hopes both engineers will view the brush fire and halt their engines.

The Miller special is barreling down the track when the engineer notices the brushfire. He stops his train to investigate. Bill Buckley, coming from the opposite direction, sees the same fire stop his train. They avert the head-on collision. Johnny lights a railroad flare, and Bill Buckley sees the torch and rushes towards the bright light. Buckley sees his son lying helpless at the edge of the brushfire, rescues him, and carries him to safety.

Wilton shows up at the Buckley home to fetch Esther. Mother Buckley says Esther is not there, but Wilton finds her hiding in a closet. A struggle ensues, but Esther escapes. Mother Buckley grapples with Wilton, but he throws her to the floor. A gun appears, and someone fires a shot, wounding Wilton. Buckley's adopted son, Henry, is gripping the pistol. Wilton looks at Henry and says &ndash; "by my flesh and blood." Buckley's orphan lad turns out to be Wilton's mysterious son.

In the last scene, Johnny and Esther are on the back of a train departing on their honeymoon.

####Wild at Heart####
Lovers Lula and Sailor are separated after he is jailed for killing a man who attacked him with a knife; the assailant, Bobby Ray Lemon, was hired by Lula's mother, Marietta Fortune. Upon Sailor's release, Lula picks him up outside prison, where she hands him his snakeskin jacket. They go to a hotel where she reserved a room, make love and go to see the speed metal band Powermad. At the club, Sailor gets into a fight with a man who flirts with Lula, and then leads the band in a rendition of the Elvis Presley song "Love Me Tender". Later, back in their hotel room, after making love again, Sailor and Lula finally decide to run away to California, breaking Sailor's parole. Marietta arranges for private detective Johnnie Farragut—her on-off boyfriend—to find them and bring them back. But unbeknownst to Farragut, Marietta also hires gangster Marcello Santos to track them and kill Sailor. Santos's minions capture and kill Farragut, sending Marietta into a guilt-fueled psychosis.

Unaware of all of the events happening back in North Carolina, Lula and Sailor continue on their way until they witness—according to Lula—a bad omen: the aftermath of a two-car accident, and the only survivor, a young woman, dying in front of them. With little money left, Sailor heads for Big Tuna, Texas, where he contacts his old acquaintance Perdita Durango, who might be able to help them, although she secretly knows Lula's mother has a contract out for his murder. Lula, who has been feeling ill, tells Sailor she is pregnant with his child. While Sailor is changing their car's oil, Lula waits for him in the hotel room. Peru enters the room and threatens to sexually assault Lula, forcing her to ask him to have sex with her, before leaving, stating he has no time. This traumatizes Lula, who was raped as a child.

Not knowing about Peru's abuse of Lula, Sailor agrees to accompany him to a bar. Over beers, Peru enlists Sailor's help in robbing a nearby feed store, which allegedly keeps $5,000 in cash on hand. The robbery goes spectacularly wrong when Peru unnecessarily shoots the two store clerks. Peru then admits to Sailor that he has been hired to kill him, and Sailor realizes he has been given a pistol with dummy ammunition. Chasing Sailor out of the store, Peru is about to kill him when the sheriff's deputy opens fire on him and Peru blows his own head off with his own shotgun. Sailor is arrested and sentenced to six years in prison.

While Sailor is in jail, Lula has their child. Upon his release, Lula decides to reunite with him. Rejecting her mother's objections over the phone, she throws water over her mother's photograph and goes to pick up Sailor with their son. When they meet Sailor, he reveals he will be leaving them both, having decided that mother and son are better off without his influence. While he is walking a short distance away, Sailor encounters a gang whose members surround him. He insults them, and they quickly knock him out. While unconscious, he sees a vision in the form of Glinda the Good Witch, who tells him, "Don't turn away from love, Sailor." When he awakens, Sailor apologizes to the men, tells them he realizes the error of his ways, and then runs after Lula. The photograph of Marietta, in Lula's house, sizzles and vanishes. As there is a traffic jam on the road, Sailor begins to run over the roofs and hoods of the cars to get back to Lula and their child in the car. Sailor sings "Love Me Tender" to Lula, having earlier said that he would only sing that song to his wife.

####Wisdom####
John Wisdom is a young man just out of college. On the night of his high school graduation, he had gotten drunk and stolen a car.

With a grand theft auto conviction he is branded a felon and as a result can not hold down a decent job. Seeing no future for himself, Wisdom takes a left turn: he decides to become a criminal "for the people", evocative of Robin Hood.

After seeing news reports about impoverished farmers and working class people being sent to the bank to pay ownership debts, Wisdom goes on a bank robbing spree with his girlfriend, Karen Simmons. He planned to do it alone, but she insists giving him a ride on the first job, so inadvertently becomes his accomplice.

They don't steal money, but rather erase loan and mortgage records, buying time for the poor to pay their debts. At a small motel, the owner recognises them. Not able to keep it to himself, he and half a dozen people come to thank them, bearing gifts. Among them is a new vehicle.

With the FBI after them, things take a turn for the worse. At the motel they'd been staying at they shoot it up, only to find Wisdom and Karen have already gone.

Unfortunately, a panicky Karen kills a local sheriff who recognises her in a convenience store. She and Wisdom make a run for the Canada–United States border, but when Karen is shot by a police helicopter, Wisdom leaves her in the care of some high school students and their teacher.

Wisdom resumes his flight on foot on the school grounds, first unloading his gun before he is surrounded by police and federal agents at the football field. As he appears to be reaching for his gun, he is riddled with gunfire and dies.

John wakes up where the film started, in his parents' bathroom. He emerges from the bathtub and proceeds to get ready for his job interview. His entire story has apparently been a daydream.

####The Woman Hater####
A man receives a letter from a girl stating that she does not want a relationship with him anymore. After this, he becomes the "woman hater" referenced in the title.

####The Bounty Hunter####
Milo Boyd, a former New York Police Department detective is now a bounty hunter.  His ex-wife, Nicole Hurley, is an investigative reporter who has been arrested for assaulting a police officer.

Nicole receives a tip on a story, an apparent suicide that may have been a murder, she skips her bond hearing to meet her informant, causing the judge to revoke her bail and issue a warrant for her arrest. Just before Nicole arrives, her informant, Jimmy is kidnapped.

Milo is ecstatic when Nicole's bail bondsman, Sid, offers him the job of bringing her to jail, for a bounty of $5,000. Nicole's mother Kitty inadvertently helps him find her at a race track in New Jersey. He throws her into his trunk and drives back towards Manhattan. Nicole escapes briefly before he catches up with her.

They are being stalked: Milo by two thugs sent by his bookie Irene, because of his gambling debts, Nicole by corrupt cop Earl Mahler, who is connected with the story she is investigating, and both by Nicole's lovestruck coworker Stewart, bent on rescuing her from Milo. Irene's thugs confuse Stewart for Milo and mistakenly kidnap him.

Earl tries to kill Nicole, but both Milo and Nicole narrowly escape. Milo is not interested in explanations until she tells him she's found evidence that implicates their mutual friend and Milo's ex-partner on the force, Bobby, indicating that he is involved with Earl. Milo decides to investigate with her.

Clues from Earl's car lead them to a country club, where they learn from a caddie that Earl owns a tattoo parlor in Queens, so they start to make their way there. Bobby warns them to stay off the road.

The nearest hotel is the bed and breakfast where they spent their honeymoon. They discover they still have feelings for each other and admit their mistakes. Coming out of the bathroom, Nicole overhears Milo telling Sid he may sleep with her, but he's still taking her to jail. She handcuffs him to the bed and goes to the tattoo parlor, finding Jimmy and freeing him before being captured by Irene's thugs.

Milo rescues Nicole at a strip club. Then, they hear Bobby is heading to the police's evidence warehouse, which is being relocated to a new building. Bobby confronts Earl, a former friend who has used Bobby's name to gain access to the warehouse and steal a large amount of narcotics and cash. Bobby decides to arrest him, but Earl shoots him. Milo and Nicole enter the warehouse and Milo is ambushed, but Earl surrenders when Nicole points a shotgun at him.

Bobby explains Earl was using him, as well as the man who supposedly committed suicide, to gain access to the warehouse. There was no proof, so Bobby was waiting for Earl to make his move before arresting him. Milo proudly notes that Earl might have gotten away with it if Nicole hadn't picked up clues. He and Nicole appear to have reconciled. They concede that sometimes their jobs have to come first. Milo turns Nicole in to the police, so she can make her court hearing the next day.

On his way out of the precinct, Milo runs into a cop who insulted him earlier and punches him in the face. He is arrested and put in the cell next to Nicole's. He reminds her that it is their anniversary and they have to spend it together. Through the bars they admit their love and kiss.

####Bridge of Dragons####
The tough and cold mercenary Warchild, is working for the man who took care of his war training and upbringing, the greedy General Ruechang. Ruechang is planning to take over the country by marrying Princess Halo. But Halo discovers that Ruechang killed her father to gain more power than he had working for the King, so she decides to run away. Warchild is the one who has to bring her back to Ruechang, but the one thing no one counted on happens: Warchild and Halo fall in love, and together they take on the forces of Ruechang. So his tyranny can be brought down and set the people free.

####Ghosted####
Long plot|date=April 2023
Sadie, a successful but currently despondent CIA operative who is in between missions meets Cole, a charming but romantically needy farmer and vendor. Though initially arguing with one another, the two hit it off with an extended date, eventually culminating in sex. When Cole returns home, he texts Sadie, but receives no response; Cole’s sister suspects Sadie is “ghosting” him because of his needy communication. Despite being mocked, he is convinced by his family to surprise her in London, after locating her via a tracker on his inhaler that he accidentally left in her backpack.

Cole arrives in London and attempts to track down Sadie. Moments away from finding her, he walks into a trap created by arms dealers for a CIA operative nicknamed “Taxman.” He is drugged and taken to a cave in Pakistan. Torturers attempt to extract a passcode from Cole, believing him to be the Taxman.  A masked operative infiltrates the cave and saves Cole; the operative reveals themself to be Sadie, who is also the “Taxman.” After a lengthy chase through Khyber Pass, the two escape the captors, who are revealed to be working for a disgraced French Intelligence agent named Leveque, who is in possession of a bio-weapon called “Aztec,” and attempts to sell it, despite not having the passcode to unlock it.

Cole and Sadie hide out in a nearby town. The two argue over lies they both previously told; Sadie had told Cole she was an art curator while Cole, in an attempt to impress Sadie, had told her he had traveled the world. An old contact and lover of Sadie, Marco, meets them in the town; he warns Cole about being Sadie’s boyfriend, as she cares more about the success of a mission than the life of a lover, much to Cole’s disappointment. Marco agrees to return Cole to the US so Sadie can continue her mission, but their plan is interrupted when Leveque places a bounty on Cole. Marco is subsequently killed by a bounty hunter, while Cole and Sadie are tossed around between bounty hunters, who inadvertently kill all of each other and allow the two to get free. While escaping, Cole reveals that the torturers were attempting to extract the passcode from him. Upon learning this, Sadie devises a plan to use Cole as bait to get closer to Aztec, knocking Cole out in the process.

Sadie claims the bounty for the Taxman, and delivers Cole to Leveque. The three meet, before Leveque departs and leaves his main henchman, Wagner, to unlock Aztec on a plane with Cole and Sadie. Their plan remains steady, until Wagner finds a picture on Cole's phone of Cole and Sadie together in bed. A fight breaks out in the cabin between Cole and Sadie and Wagner and his henchman. The henchman are temporarily defeated by Cole and Sadie, but Sadie is critically wounded and urges Cole to parachute out with the Aztec and leave her behind. Cole takes the Aztec but grabs Sadie and exits the plane.

The two land on an island, and Cole successfully treats Sadie’s wounds using materials from the island, and the two reconnect in the process. Wagner tracks the Aztec and assembles a squad to attack the island. Cole and Sadie are ambushed but are rescued by Marines; however, Wagner escapes with Aztec. Back at CIA Headquarters, Sadie is reprimanded and suspended for allowing Aztec to get away. When Sadie apologizes for putting Cole’s life before Aztec, Cole is again disappointed and encourages Sadie to learn to care for someone again. Though the agents are initially suspicious of Cole, he turns out to be of great services after helping decipher the passcode to Aztec. The agents formulate a plan to have Cole continue to masquerade as the Taxman and bait Leveque, who has become nervous under increasing pressure from his buyer, Mr. Utami.

The agents set up a meeting between Cole and Leveque at a high-end restaurant. Though Cole is made to believe he is completely safe, the field agents are quickly killed by Leveque’s men. Cole elects to continue the mission. Cole, Leveque, and Mr. Utami meet; the meeting begins to go sideways until Sadie shows up to help Cole, and reveals herself as the actual Taxman. She provides and sells the passcode to Mr. Utami for $10,000,000, and subsequently places a $10,000,000 bounty on Leveque as an escape plan. The restaurant erupts in chaos with bounty hunters, Utami and Leveque’s men, and Cole and Sadie. Cole is able to eliminate Wagner after tossing him in a gear mechanism, Leveque shoots Utami, but is ultimately killed after being launched through the window by Sadie’s shooting, who also recovers Aztec.

The two finally rekindle their love and begin a formal relationship, finding time with each other between and during Sadie’s missions.

####Mr. Right####
Ex-CIA agent and ex-mercenary Francis Munch kills those who try to hire him. On his way from such a kill, a team including Espinoza tries to kill him; his ex-partner and trainer Ed Hopper, reconsiders his involvement immediately beforehand, and remains only to listen and confirm his assessment of the situation.

Martha McKay is asked out by Munch and they are smitten. Munch dodges an assassination attempt by Espinoza, and they spend the night chastely. The next evening, they meet for dinner, where Munch reluctantly kills Espinoza when attacked. Over hot chocolate, he shows Martha his belief that underlying all physical objects lies a current that can be precognitively anticipated, and both of them have it. Munch throws a kitchen knife high in the air and catches it safely as it falls between them. Martha freaks out until he throws a knife at her, which she catches by the blade without being cut. They then have an intimate night.

"Von" Cartigan is the sole survivor of a prior spree in which Munch killed the Pirrello heroin syndicate, and, as Munch shoots those who hire him, with his partner Johnny Moon tries to set up his brother Richard to be killed. Instead, a middleman is sent who Munch kills in front of Martha, frightening her enough to ask him to give her some space. Richard sends Moon, Von, and 10 other hitmen to Martha's, including a gunman named Steve.

Hopper meets Martha at her apartment, but is subdued by Francis, his former partner. Steve gets Munch with buckshot. From cover, Munch shoots one of Von's hired men dead, talks another into leaving, and kneecaps the remainder. Having previously shown Von mercy at the Pirrello job, and, getting ready to kill Von, he's again hit by Steve (whom he respects for his skills) with a bat while Moon grabs Martha. Hopper arrives and shoots the kneecapped men dead, but while his back is turned, Francis escapes.

Richard enlists Von and Johnny to stay and defend their house, defeating their plans to rule the family as sole survivors; in frustration, they abuse Martha in response to her mockery. After kicking her against a wall, she says she will kill them if Munch doesn't, as she now feels "motivated."

Outside, Munch takes Steve by surprise; chatting, Steve tells him how many are inside, and they share gummy bears. Munch distracts Von and Richard's bodyguards and shoots them when threatened, but declines to shoot either Von or Richard themselves. In frustration, Von begins monologuing about his desire to kill his brother. When Munch leaves, both leap for the gun, but Von successfully kills Richard. In another room, Richard's consigliere Bruce confronts Munch but is disarmed. Bruce mistakenly arms a grenade, and Munch helps him disarm it without them both dying.

Munch rescues and begins to escape with Martha, but is shot with beanbag ammunition by Hopper. Moon grabs Martha and tells her he puts more dangerous people off their game by killing their weaker loved ones. Her precognitive combat abilities awaken, and she dodges Moon's attacks, then strikes him with his own knife and kills him with a statue. While escaping, she disarms and shoots Von with his own gun.

Hopper and Munch confront each other, Hopper handcuffs himself to Munch, intending to "re-program" Munch into a killer. Munch shoots the handcuffs off. Before Hopper can shoot him in the back, Steve shoots him dead, and is ecstatic to learn of Hopper's $5 million bounty. Munch meets Martha at the entrance, notes her dilated pupils, and asks Steve to help him get them to the hospital.

Two months later, two military-style teams are pursuing Munch and Martha as they visit different countries for Martha's paleological interests; Munch shows a sign to a sniper asking "where's the girl?" as the scene cuts to Martha, who has snuck up to shoot the sniper.

####The Roaring Road####
As described in a film magazine, "Toodles" Walden (Reid), an automobile salesman who works for a sporty old automobile distributor J. D. Ward (Roberts), has racing ambitions and is in love with Ward's daughter Dorothy (Little). The old man does not propose to give her up for five years and overreaches in an attempt to stimulate the young man with feigned complaints. They part company, but Ward is in despair when three racing machines are damaged in a train wreck.

Toodles buys the wreckage and assembles one complete car with the aid of his mechanic. With this car Toodles wins an important race, then holds up Ward for an increase in pay. There are just a few days left for a record to be broken between Los Angeles and San Francisco, and after Toodles is arrested for speeding, Ward has him released as part of his plot to break this record. Ward kidnaps his own daughter, and Toodles comes to the rescue and breaks the record, and also wins Dorothy.

####Shotgun Wedding####
Tom, Darcy and their families gather for an ultimate destination wedding on a private island in the Philippines. Just as the couple are away arguing about the wedding, their guests are taken hostage. The pirates demand $45 million dollars from Darcy's wealthy father Robert. He refuses to pay until he is assured that Darcy is alive.

Darcy and Tom are captured apart from the wedding party, but manage to escape their captors, killing one of the pirates. As they try to evade recapture, Darcy and Tom air their respective doubts about the wedding. Cornered hiding in a vault beneath the manager's office, Tom surrenders to them so Darcy can stay hidden.

When he rejoins the rest of the wedding party, Tom reveals that Darcy's ex-fiancé Sean had hired the pirates. With his plot exposed, Sean goes to hunt down Darcy, taking Robert's girlfriend Harriet as a hostage. Meanwhile, Darcy joins Tom and the rest at the pool where she and Tom admit that they still want to marry each other.

The wedding party members realize that Harriet was in on the plot with Sean. Tom asks the two pirates standing guard to let them complete the wedding ceremony, and Robert says that he will release the money if they let them get married. As the guests sing "I'll Be", Tom and Darcy rush the pirates, and Darcy takes a grenade off of one. One pirate surrenders; the other runs off, then begins firing on the venue. Tom's mother Carol grabs a weapon from the ground and returns fire. Darcy throws the grenade in the air so Tom can bat it at the pirate, who is blown up in the explosion (which also sets off the fireworks that had been staged for the wedding celebration).

As the wedding party goes to safety, Darcy and Tom race to get help, but are confronted on the dock by Sean. Tom fights him, then Tom and Darcy escape in a boat. Harriett tries to stop them in a helicopter. Sean, who had been dragged by a rope with the boat, climbs aboard and fights Tom again while Darcy drives the boat. A parasail is released, taking Tom and Sean into the air. Tom zips down the line to the boat deck. Tom and Darcy cut the line, sending the parasail loose into the helicopter's rotors, which kills both Sean and Harriet. Back on the beach, as authorities take the remaining pirates into custody, Tom and Darcy get married.

####7 Days####
The film opens with several Indian couples discussing their traditional arranged marriages. An Indian website is a modern method for unmarried singles to seek a spouse. Both Ravi's and Rita's mothers have created profiles for them on Arranged, a website for America-based Indians.

Ravi and Rita have an awkward pre-arranged date at a dry reservoir. As her mother had posted she was a vegetarian, he had brought a special meat-free meal. When she points out that the lemonade he brought was hard and the site stated he is a teetotaler, embarrassed, he pours it on the ground.

Suddenly they both get alerts to their phones about the COVID-19 pandemic, going back to her place they simultaneously call their moms. It is a mess, trash everywhere, dirty dishes and evidence that she drinks. Ravi waits for the car rental agency to call him back, as his train has been cancelled. As there won't be a car until morning, Rita offers him the couch. After he updates his mom, he overhears her talking dirty to someone on the phone. In a panic, he goes to her bathroom and finds her vibrator.

First thing in the morning Ravi leaves as soon as he can on foot to the agency. Rita gives him a friendly goodbye, but he leaves coldly. Relieved he's gone, she grabs a beer and a cold chicken drumstick from the fridge. Ravi suddenly pops back in, as he is told it will be three more days. He is forced to shelter in place due to the pandemic.

When Ravi asks about the alcohol and meat Rita begs him to not tell her mother. He concedes then blurts out that they aren't a good match, pointing out her dishonesty as a reason. She explains that her mother pays for her rent in exchange for her participation in the website.

Ravi tries to make small talk, and then asks Rita if he can clean, saying it relaxes him. Finished cleaning, he gets a teasing call from his brothers about being holed in with her. He is antsy whereas she is totally relaxed, used to inactivity as she's unemployed.

Chatting again, Rita admits she's not remotely interested in marriage, whereas Ravi insists he needs to get married before he can have any intimacy. He insists he's not boring, describing odd idiosyncrasies of his lab mates.

Rita gets a call from her lover, who turns out to be married. Unable to go for a walk, Ravi shows he's emotional as he describes to her a Bollywood movie. Bored, she spikes his Coke with whiskey and, as he's never touched alcohol, it quickly affects him. He both tries to do standup and then dance for the first time, but gets sick.

Sore at Rita the next morning, Ravi blames her for his hangover. A short while later, she joins him for an online workout. Her mother calls, asking about the date, hoping she didn't divulge her true self, as he couldn't love 'that you'.

Ravi offers to teach Rita to cook. In the process, he is appalled at her process and the end result, but she is pleased. His mother sets him up on a virtual blind date, which Rita coaches him through. Ravi finishes the date really happy, but dreams of Rita.

The next morning, after Rita hears Ravi's conversation via speakerphone with his mother she goes stir crazy and insists on going out, and doesn't take a mask. She arrives baxk late. In the morning, upon saying goodbye she coughs, so he cancels his departure to  help Rita quarantine.

During the day or so of quarantining they get to know one another. she talks about her affair, he tells her very infantile knock knock jokes...during the night her bad coughing concerns him, so he spoons her. By morning he calls an ambulance.

Once Rita is hospitalised, Ravi goes through her things, with notable and increasing affection. He has a lot of difficulty having contact via phone. Ravi discovers her paintings are all sweet and about love, not raunchy as she implied.

Her mom calls, and he tells her about Rita's COVID hospitalization. She asks to zoom with him. The few times Ravi does get through, the woman in Rita's room dies. A newbie there kindly keeps him updated. When she's released, they meet in a park and their mutual affection is visible.

####10 Things I Hate About Life####
The film begins with Wood and McDonell's characters, both determined to take their own lives, pulling up to a scenic cliff overlooking the ocean. While McDonell takes out a gun and prepares it, Wood drives off the cliff. McDonell is briefly startled, but then continues. As he holds the gun to his head and prepares to fire, Wood, her face covered in white powder from the deployment of her car's airbag, comes up from the cliff and asks "Can I borrow that when you're done?"

McDonell and Wood put off their suicide plans and spend more time together, falling in love and gradually finding in each other a reason to live.

####10 Things I Hate About You####
Cameron James, a new student at Padua High School in the Seattle area, falls in love at first sight with beautiful and popular sophomore Bianca Stratford. Geeky Michael Eckman warns him that Bianca is vapid and conceited, and that her overprotective father does not allow Bianca or her older sister, the shrewish Kat, to date. Kat, a senior, is accepted to Sarah Lawrence College in New York, but her father, Walter, wants her to stay close to home. Bianca wishes to date affluent senior Joey Donner, but Walter, an obstetrician worried about teenage pregnancy, will not allow his daughters to date until they graduate. Frustrated by Bianca's insistence and Kat's rebelliousness, Walter declares that Bianca may date only when Kat does, knowing that Kat's antisocial attitude makes this unlikely.

When Cameron asks Bianca out, she informs him of her father's new rule and, as a pretense for allowing her to date Joey, suggests that Cameron find someone willing to date Kat. Cameron selects "bad boy" Patrick Verona, but Patrick scares him off. Michael assists by convincing Joey to pay Patrick to take Kat out, under the pretense that this will allow Joey to date Bianca. Patrick agrees to the deal, but Kat rebuffs his first few advances. Michael and Cameron help him by probing Bianca for information on Kat's likes and dislikes. Armed with this knowledge, Patrick begins to win Kat's interest. She goes to a party with him, which enables Bianca to go as well, much to Walter's dismay.

At the party, Kat becomes upset when she sees Bianca with Joey, and responds by getting drunk. Patrick attends to her, and Kat starts to open up, expressing her interest in starting a band. But when she tries to kiss him, Patrick pulls away and Kat leaves, infuriated. Meanwhile, Bianca ignores Cameron in favor of Joey, leaving Cameron dejected. But Bianca soon realizes that Joey is shallow and self-absorbed, and asks Cameron for a ride home. Cameron admits his feelings for her and his frustration with how she has treated him. Bianca responds by kissing him.

Joey offers to pay Patrick to take Kat to the prom so he can take Bianca. Patrick initially refuses, but relents when Joey offers him more money. Kat is still angry with Patrick, but he wins her over by serenading her with the accompaniment of the marching band, and she helps him sneak out of detention. They go on a date, which turns romantic, but Kat becomes suspicious and angry when Patrick insists that she go with him to the prom, an event she is adamantly against. Bianca is irritated that Cameron hasn't asked her to the prom, and so accepts Joey's invitation, but Walter won't allow it unless Kat goes too. Kat confesses to Bianca that she dated Joey when they were freshmen and, succumbing to peer pressure, had sex with him. Afterwards she regretted it and Joey dumped her, so she vowed to never again do anything just because everyone else was doing it. Bianca insists that she can make her own choices, so Kat agrees to go to the prom with Patrick, and Bianca decides to go with Cameron instead of Joey.

All is going well at the prom until Bianca learns that Joey planned to have sex with her that night. Angry that Bianca has spurned him for Cameron, Joey reveals his arrangement with Patrick, which causes Kat to leave, heartbroken. Joey then punches Cameron, but is in turn beaten up by Bianca for having hurt her, Kat, and Cameron. Bianca and Cameron share another kiss.

The next day, Bianca reconciles with Kat and begins dating Cameron. Walter admits that Kat is capable of taking care of herself, and gives her permission to attend Sarah Lawrence College. For an assignment in which the students were to write their own versions of William Shakespeare's Sonnet 141, Kat reads aloud a poem titled "10 Things I Hate About You", revealing that she still loves Patrick. Patrick surprises her with a Fender Stratocaster bought with the money Joey paid him, and confesses that he has fallen for her. Kat forgives him, and they make up with a kiss.

####16-Love####
Ally Mash is a 16 year old San Diego high school student who is also the number one American junior tennis player. She has never had a normal life due to her father's obsessive coaching, but things change when she suffers an injury playing a fiercely competitive Russian rival. Sidelined, she skips her father's rehabilitation training and coaches a low-level player, Farrell Gambles, while discovering a normal teenage life including falling in love. Concurrently she builds up to a rematch with her Russian rival.

####17 Again####
In 1989, 17-year-old star athlete Mike O'Donnell's girlfriend Scarlet Porter tells him that she is pregnant, just moments before his likely scholarship-clinching high-school championship basketball game. Mike plays the first few seconds of the game, then walks off the court and goes after Scarlet, abandoning his hopes of going to college and achieving a career that could support their future. Twenty years later, 37-year-old Mike finds his life stagnant and boring, abandoning any project he starts. Scarlet, now his wife and mother of their two children, has filed for divorce, forcing him to move in with his geeky, yet extremely wealthy, but equally unhappy best friend, Ned Gold. He has quit his job after he is passed over for a promotion he believed he deserves, and his high-school-age kids, 18-year-old Maggie and 16-year-old Alex, want nothing to do with him. Later, while driving, an encounter on a bridge with a janitor transforms Mike back into his 17-year-old self.

After convincing Ned of his identity, Ned believes that Mike's transformation was caused by a mystical spirit guide who is trying to steer him on a better path. Mike enrolls in high school posing as Mark Gold, Ned's son and plans to go to college on a basketball scholarship. As he befriends his bullied son and discovers that his daughter has a boyfriend, Stan, who does not respect her and frequently torments Alex, Mike comes to believe that his mission is to help them.

Through their kids, Mike spends time with Scarlet, who notes his remarkable resemblance to her husband, but rationalizes it as an odd coincidence. Deciding to also try and fix his relationship with Scarlet, Mike begins to finish (under the pretense of getting "volunteer credit") all of the garden projects he abandoned as an adult. He does his best to separate Stan and Maggie while also encouraging Alex to be more confident so he can make the basketball team and go out with a girl he has a crush on named Nicole. Mike has difficulty resisting his desire for Scarlet despite the relationship's clear inappropriateness. Ned, meanwhile, begins to pursue the school's principal Jane Masterson through increasingly extravagant stunts in order to win her affections, which she adamantly rebukes, though she agrees to a date after he offers to buy laptops for the school.

On their date, Jane is completely unimpressed with Ned until he drops the "sophisticated rich-guy" persona and admits he is actually a geek. Jane then reveals her own enthusiasm for geek culture by speaking to him in Elvish, and the two hit it off. Mike throws a party to celebrate a basketball game win at Ned's house while Ned is out with Jane, where he confronts Stan, who had recently dumped Maggie for not sleeping with him. Mike gets knocked out and wakes up to Maggie trying to seduce him. Mike tells his daughter that he is in love with someone else and Maggie leaves, much to Mike's relief. Scarlet arrives at the party worried about her kids attending, but Mike shows her that Alex has finally managed to get together with his crush. The two have an intimate conversation where Mike, caught up in the moment, tries to kiss her. Disgusted, she storms off as Mike tries unsuccessfully to explain his true identity.

On the day of the court hearing to finalize Scarlet and Mike's divorce, Mike makes one last attempt to win her back (as Mark) by reading a supposed letter from Mike. He states that although he couldn't set things right in the beginning of his life, it doesn't change the fact that he still loves her. After he exits, Scarlet notices that the "letter" is actually the directions to the courtroom, and she begins to grow curious. As a result, she postpones the divorce by a month. Frustrated that he could not salvage his marriage, Mike decides to once again pursue a scholarship and move on with a new life. During a high school basketball game, Mike reveals himself to Scarlet. As Scarlet runs away, Mike decides to chase her down, just like he did in 1989, but not before handing the ball off to his son. Mike is then transformed back into his 37-year-old self, and happily reunites with Scarlet, saying that she was the best decision he ever made.

As Mike prepares for his first day as the new basketball coach at his kids' school, Ned, who has successfully started a relationship with Jane, gifts him a whistle, both happy with their new starts in life.

####27 Dresses####
Jane Nichols has been a bridesmaid for twenty-seven weddings. One night when she is attending two weddings almost simultaneously, she meets Kevin Doyle, who disgusts her with his cynical views of marriage. Kevin and Jane share a cab home, where she forgets her day planner. Kevin snoops through the planner and resolves to return it to Jane. Meanwhile, Jane's sister Tess returns from a trip to Europe and quickly falls in love with Jane's boss George, on whom Jane has an unrequited crush. Tess feigns interest in George's passion for the outdoors and animal rights, and their courtship progresses rapidly. Soon, they announce plans to marry in only three weeks. Tess enlists Jane to be the wedding planner.

Tess and George's nuptials will be featured in the newspaper's Commitments section. The reporter turns out to be Kevin, who writes wedding announcements under the pseudonym Malcolm. Kevin successfully returns Jane's planner but decides to use the contents as material for a piece on the "perennial bridesmaid" as a stepping stone to more serious journalistic pursuits. Jane is unaware of Kevin's intentions. During their interview about Tess's wedding, Jane shows him the 27 bridesmaids' dresses in her closet. He takes pictures of her wearing all 27 dresses and submits the photos and his article about Jane for publication. As Kevin and Jane grow closer, he has second thoughts and begs his editor to hold off on publishing the article.

Kevin accompanies Jane on a wedding-related errand in Rhinebeck, New York. When Jane's reckless driving causes the car to skid off the road and become stuck, the two seek refuge at a local bar, and enjoy drunken revelry while singing "Bennie and the Jets". Kevin and Jane kiss and have sex in the car. That day, Kevin's editor runs the article about Jane on the front page of the Commitments section. Jane is betrayed and is furious at Kevin. Tess then gets angry at Jane for giving Kevin material about her, whom he describes as a bridezilla. The fight escalates when Jane learns that Tess altered their late mother's wedding dress to make her own gown (which Jane wanted for herself), the last straw on Tess's string of lies to George and demands on Jane.

Despite the fight, Tess still asks Jane to make a slideshow for her engagement party. Jane exacts her revenge by sharing pictures of Tess flirting with other men in the past, eating ribs, and holding a cat by the tail - in short, illustrating her numerous lies to George. After Pedro, the child that George mentors, reveals that Tess had him cleaning George's apartment for money, George breaks off the engagement.

Later at work, George tells Jane that he appreciates her because she never says no. Remembering that Kevin once said the same thing as criticism, Jane quits and admits she only stayed at the job because she was in love with George. She discovers after an experimental kiss that she no longer loves George. She finds Kevin at a wedding he is covering and announces her love for him.

One year later, Jane and Kevin are getting married. George and Tess meet at the ceremony and hope for a second chance. All 27 brides serve as Jane's bridesmaids, wearing the dresses that she once wore as their bridesmaid.

####30 Days####
Jordan (Shenkman) is a successful businessman with commitment issues, so friends decided to match him with an NBC worker, Sarah (Bareikis) who is going through some emotional issues. They agree to sleep together after Jordan reveals he doesn't know the name of a woman he recently slept with. But later they decide to become a romantic couple. However, after their first fight, the relationship is over. Jordan later realises how important Sarah is to him and proceeds to try to win her back.

####40 Carats####
Ann Stanley, who sells real estate in New York City, is on vacation with her mother in Greece when her car breaks down. To her rescue comes a young man on a motorbike, Peter Latham, who has a difficult time persuading Ann to accept a ride. They become better acquainted, drink ouzo, and ultimately consummate the relationship. Ann enjoys his company, but still views their relationship as a summer fling.

Back home, at a party one night, Ann is stunned when her grown daughter turns up with Peter as her date. Peter was not her daughter's date - he picked her up at her home in place of her daughter's date. It turns out, however, that Peter's goal is to resume his romantic acquaintance with Ann, having developed feelings for her during the summer. The age difference embarrasses Ann greatly. He is 22, and she is 40. Friends and associates of Ann are somewhat aghast at her behavior as the persistent Peter refuses to take no for an answer. In time, after demonstrating a great deal of reluctance, Ann finally acknowledges that the only thing that matters is true love.

####The 40-Year-Old Virgin####
Andy Stitzer is a shy 40-year-old introvert who works as a stock supervisor at electronics store Smart Tech. He gave up trying to have sex after various failed attempts and lives alone in an apartment with a collection of action figures and video games. When a conversation at a poker game with his co-workers David, Jay, and Cal turns to past sexual exploits, they learn that he secretly is still a virgin.

Andy is mortified upon discovering the next day that everyone else at work has learned about the secret, including their boss Paula, who is attracted to him and later privately offers to take his virginity. He almost quits work in humiliation before David consoles him and recommends trying again to have sex. David, Jay, and Cal become determined to help Andy achieve this. They all give differing advice on how to interact with women.

David invites him to join them for a speed dating event and unsuccessfully tries to reconnect with his ex-girlfriend Amy there. Jay drags Andy to various social events, books a painful chest waxing appointment, and sets him up with a prostitute, which all end with embarrassing results. Cal advises Andy to simply be confident and ask women questions instead of talking about himself. He practices this on a bookstore clerk named Beth, who quickly becomes intrigued by him. David gives Andy his pornography collection, encouraging him to masturbate.

Andy eventually gets a date with a customer named Trish Piedmont. At the end of their first date, they almost have sex but are interrupted by her teenage daughter Marla. Trish suggests they postpone having sex, and Andy enthusiastically agrees; they decide to abstain until their twentieth date. Their relationship flourishes over the following weeks. She encourages Andy's dream of starting a business and helps fund it by selling his collectibles. After Marla argues with Trish over wanting birth control, Andy takes her to a group information session at a sexual health clinic, where she is mocked for being a virgin. Andy admits his own virginity to defend her, earning him Marla's respect.

Meanwhile, David suffers an emotional breakdown at work over his obsession with Amy and takes a vow of celibacy, which leads to Paula giving his sales duties to Andy for the day and later promoting him to floor manager due to his high sales quota. As Cal takes on Andy's previous role, he hires a woman named Bernadette to work at the store, hoping to match her with David, so he can move on from Amy. After Jay's girlfriend Jill breaks up with him due to his infidelity, he concedes to Andy that sex can ruin a relationship. Following a reconciliation with Jill, Jay later invites Andy and the others to a nightclub to celebrate her pregnancy.

Trish tries to initiate sex with Andy on their twentieth date and becomes upset when he resists. They argue, and Andy leaves to meet his friends at a nightclub. He gets drunk and leaves with Beth to have sex at her apartment. Cal gets David and Bernadette to hook up, while Marla convinces Trish to reconcile with Andy. At Beth's, Andy sobers up and decides to leave without having sex, just as his friends arrive and encourage him to go back to Trish.

Andy returns to his apartment to find Trish waiting for him. She has found David's porn collection; he tries to explain, but she flees in alarm and disgust, fearing Andy may be a sexual deviant. While pursuing her on his bike, Andy collides with her car, flying through the side of a billboard truck. She rushes to his side, and Andy finally confesses that he is a virgin. Trish is relieved and accepting, and they profess their love for each other. They eventually marry in a lavish ceremony with everyone in attendance, having generated roughly $500,000 from the sales of his action figures to pay for it, before having sex for the first time. The film ends with a musical sequence where all the characters sing and dance to "Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In".

####50 First Dates####
Henry Roth is a veterinarian at Sea Life Park Hawaii on Oahu with a policy of only dating visiting tourists to avoid any serious commitments. His closest friends are Ula, a marijuana-smoking Islander; Alexa, his androgynous assistant; Willy, his pet African penguin; and Jocko, a walrus that lives at the park.

One day, Henry's boat breaks down, so he goes to the Hukilau Café to wait for the Coast Guard. He sees Lucy Whitmore make architectural art with her waffles. Henry assumes she is a local, which prevents him from introducing himself. He tries to go back to womanizing tourists, but can't seem to get Lucy out of his head. The next day, he comes back and has breakfast with her. They instantly connect and Lucy asks to see him again the next morning.

The next day, however, Lucy shows no recollection of ever meeting him. The restaurant owner Sue explains to Henry that the year before, Lucy and her father Marlin went up to the North Shore to pick a pineapple for his birthday. On the way back, a cow wandered through a broken fence and onto the road, causing a car accident that left Lucy with a (fictional) form of amnesia, whereby she remembers her life up until the night before the accident, and her memory is normal during the day, but those new experiences are lost when she goes to sleep. To save her the heartbreak of reliving the accident, Marlin and Doug, Lucy's lisping steroid-addicted brother, re-enact Marlin's birthday every day.

Despite Sue's warning, Henry tries to get Lucy to have breakfast with him again. It ends poorly when Henry unintentionally hurts Lucy's feelings, and he follows her home to apologize. At her house, Marlin and Doug instruct Henry to leave Lucy alone, but Alexa advises Henry to look for a loophole in said instruction. Realizing that Marlin specifically said to stay away from the café, Henry begins concocting ways to run into Lucy on the road through the following days, during which he manages to successfully impress her over a series of "first" dates and "chance" encounters. Later, Marlin and Doug give their permission for Henry to continue when they discover Lucy regularly singing the Beach Boys' "Wouldn't It Be Nice" in her painting studio – the first major change in her routine since the accident.

One day, as Henry is about to sit with Lucy at breakfast, she notices a police officer writing a ticket because of her expired plates. With the ruse exposed, Lucy is distressed to learn that her friends and family have maintained the charade for so long; however, in watching her reaction, Henry surmises that her strongest reactions are to feeling betrayed by her loved ones, not the actual memory loss.

Henry devises a new strategy to let Lucy know about the truth by creating a video with her friends to explain the situation calmly; rather than let her go through her pre-accident routine, they plant the video in her room with a note to play it when she first wakes up. The strategy works and allows Lucy to process the events while catching her up on current events, including her relationship to Henry. Henry and Lucy's relationship grows well using this method, and they continue to refine the process while enduring some humorous setbacks, such as their sleeping together and Lucy attacking Henry the next morning. However, when Lucy discovers that Henry has decided to cancel ten years' worth of planning for his research study of walruses in Bristol Bay to help manage her condition, she decides that they need to break up. Henry reluctantly helps her destroy her journal entries of their relationship and effectively "erase" their time together.

Some weeks later, Henry is preparing to leave for his research study. Before he goes, Marlin tells him that Lucy is now living at the institute and teaching an art class. As a parting gift, he gives Henry a Beach Boys CD which reminds him of Lucy to the point of crying. Suddenly, he realizes that Lucy's singing of "Wouldn't It Be Nice" was not random, but occurred on days when they "met" and indicates new learned memory retention. Henry abandons his trip and rushes to the art class. While Lucy does not remember him, she reveals that she dreams about him every night and has been painting some of their adventures. Seeing this as a sign, they happily reconcile.

Some time later, Lucy wakes up and plays the tape marked "Good Morning Lucy". It again reminds her of her accident, but ends with her and Henry's wedding. From the tape, Henry says to put a jacket on and come have breakfast when she is ready. Lucy then sees that she is on Henry's boat, which finally made it to Alaska. She goes up on deck and meets Marlin, Henry and their young daughter, Nicole.

####50 Million Frenchmen####
Set in Paris, the story concerns the exploits of wealthy Jack Forbes (William Gaxton), who bets his friend Michael Cummings (John Halliday) that he can woo and win Looloo Carroll (Claudia Dell) without using any of his money or connections. Cummings hires Simon and Peter (Ole Olsen and Chic Johnson), a pair of erstwhile detectives, to make sure that Forbes doesn't win his bet.

Instead, Simon and Peter befriend our hero and decide to help him out. Olsen & Johnson have all the best material, notably an early double entendre encounter with a randy American tourist (Helen Broderick) and a scene in which Olsen impersonates a mind-reading fakir (Bela Lugosi) – who loses his clothes in the process! The finale has the comedians being chased by every law officer in Paris.

####100 Girls####
After leaving a party at a women's dormitory, Matthew is trapped in an elevator with an unknown, and unseen, woman when the power goes out. They have sex in the dark and when Matthew wakes up in the elevator the morning after, he finds himself alone with a pair of her panties.

On a mission to find his mystery maiden by looking for a matching bra for the panties, Matthew becomes the maintenance man of the "Virgin Vault", an all-female dormitory. This allows him to investigate without drawing suspicion. His roommate Rod keeps telling him to give up and introduces him to the "penile power", which involves the use of weights attached to his penis as a means of increasing the organ's size. He does this and insults women to make himself feel better about the problem he has with his manhood; he suffers from hypospadias.

Early on, Matthew watches as a woman named Patty  and her boyfriend Crick fight. Crick is the epitome of the macho man stereotype, with his big pectorals, conceited attitude, and abusiveness. Matthew tries to save Patty, but is hurt by Crick. Crick leaves, and Patty tries to help Matthew, but Matthew cannot help but think of Patty's reputation as a "slut".

While searching one room, Matthew finds himself trapped in the bathroom when the occupant returns. Matthew is attacked by Wendy, until she recognizes him as a high school classmate. Wendy decides to help Matthew in his quest to find his mystery maiden, hoping that, in the process, she may find one of her own, as she is a closeted lesbian.

Matthew is nervous about talking to girls. Arlene and his teacher Ms. Stern disparage Matthew, asserting that women are more dominant than men are and that women, rather than men, should be in command. Rod tells Matthew that he is a chicken and should just give up on girls, while Matthew tells him that he has never been able to speak to girls, especially Cynthia.

Matthew puts an advertisement in the school newspaper asking the girl he is seeking to meet him in the basement on a Thursday night. He sits in the dark every Thursday night, waiting for her to show up. The door opens one night, and he thinks it is her, but it is Wendy, coming to check up on him. Finally, the mystery maiden does show up, only to tell him to stop looking for her.

Despite this, Matthew is not deterred, and disguises himself in drag, as Francesca, as a means to continue his search. In drag, he is actually able to talk to Cynthia without being intimidated by her good looks.  She then gets injured after two students accidentally drop a couch on her. Rod flirts with Francesca and later brags to Matthew that he had sex with her. This makes Matthew so angry that he adds another weight onto Rod's "penile power" device, hurting him. Crick makes a pass at Matthew in drag while he fights with Patty. Matthew bites off part of Crick's tongue. As a result, Crick is unable to speak without lisping.

With then end of the semester nearing, desperation sets in, so Matthew appeals to his mystery maiden by proclaiming his love for her to the whole dormitory. He finally determines his mystery maiden is Patty. She initially rejects him because she thought that he would see her only as a slut. Crick sees that Matthew wants Patty, but Matthew has him arrested for sexually assaulting him (when he was dressed as Francesca).

Matthew introduces Rod and Dora, and hooks Wendy up with Arlene. Cynthia shows off her newly found martial art abilities that she discovered as a way to cope with frustration following her injury, and Ms. Stern learns a valuable lesson on gender equality, as Matthew stands up to her in front of the class, to an ovation. Finally, Matthew proclaims his love to Patty, who sees his loving eyes, and they kiss.

####100 Women####
The film starts out with a man surrounded by a large number of angry looking women (feminists) in a theater. He tells his story and narrates it throughout the film.

Sam, an art student who describes himself as "accidentally funny", is having the worst day of his life: he loses his girlfriend, fails art school, and is put down by his favorite professor. Finally, his art portfolio falls open and his drawings scatter. A girl comes up with one drawing (a smiling face) and says that he has "lost his smile". The girl is Hope, a bubbly bombshell with a drive to make Sam smile again. She eventually does, and they kiss in the rain. She gives Sam her number, then is picked up by a friend. Unfortunately for Sam, the rain washes the number off of his hand.

Devastated, he is determined to search for her. He takes a job as a delivery boy with his uncle's coffee shop. He is fruitless at first. Then finally, he delivers to Hope's apartment in a women's residence. She comes to the door in tears, not at all the way Sam remembers her. She refuses to talk about her pain and hurries Sam away. Now Sam gives himself a new task: find out how Hope "lost her smile" and give it back to her.

While trying to cheer her up, he meets various people in the building: Tanya - a junior reporter devoted to herself and her career; Gretchen - his piercing-obsessed ex-girlfriend; Mr. Willens - the disgusting, unhygienic and lecherous building manager; and finally Annie - an ex-chocoholic who has lost a of weight and agrees to assist him in his search. Along the way, he takes advice from his cousin Holden, an overweight sex addict whose pornography obsession has left him to graduate to the hardest of hardcore magazines in the world.

While on his search, he is harassed by a mystery girl who wants him to give up. She drops a vase near him and sticks him and Holden penis-to-penis in a Chinese finger trap. She leaves an imprint in wet plaster that shows a scar on her butt. He then sets out to find the girl with that scar. Investigating Hope's room on subsequent trips, he finds a torn album cover and a sad note in Hope's diary. Further investigating both, leads him nowhere.

Along the way, he begins to fall in love with Annie. When Hope is served with an eviction notice, Sam sits outside her door drawing. Annie comes up and they talk for a while. He makes her laugh with faces drawn on various body parts. They kiss and start a relationship. She ends it quickly, however, as he refuses to stop trying to help Hope, seeing it as the duty of a friend.

Sam then goes to Hope's room one last time. She thanks him for his help and kisses him. He then finds the scar on her butt - she was the mystery woman with the help and encouragement of Annie. She tells him what happened. The night they first met, her friend Jesse picked her up. They have known each other since childhood and were best friends. But then he tried to force himself on her, saying that guys don't want girls as friends, they only want girlfriends. She escaped through the sunroof, cutting her butt on the process. Sam and Hope get together. Annie consoles her and says she will help her find out if Sam is a true friend.

Later, Hope notices that Sam has once again lost his smile. He feels bad about Hope and Annie tricking him and for hurting Annie. Annie won't speak to him and has turned to chocolate, her comfort food. Hope realizes that he loves Annie too, and says he should figure out which one he wants to be with. Looking at his drawings of the two, he realizes that the smiling face he always drew was Annie, his one true love. She still refuses to talk to him. Sam takes his drawings to make a cartoon for her. Willens, who Sam had turned in for peeping on the residents, scatters them. All the residents help him pick them up, showing their love for him.

Sam then displays his cartoon of their relationship to her from her window. Hope tells Annie to realize that Sam loves her and that she loves him. She takes a while, but comes around and laughs raucously at the bizarre antics of their characters. Sam runs to her apartment and she jumps into his arms.

####About Fate####
Margot Hayes, a realtor, and Griffin Reed, a lawyer, live in very similar homes, at very similar street addresses, in similarly named communities. On December 30, Margot hopes to be proposed to by her boyfriend Kip, so that she might go to her sister's wedding engaged. However, when it does not happen, she walks out.

Meanwhile, in the same restaurant, Griffin tries to propose to his girlfriend, Instagram influencer Clementine. However, she insists he do it again for her publicly the next night. He then gets day drunk with his buddies, and when they order a taxi for him, they give the driver the wrong address — Margot's, as hers is very similar to his.

Griffin, opening the door with the key left under Margot's flower pot, notices that the cat looks different and the apartment looks strange. However, he is too drunk to care, and falls asleep. Margot comes home to find a naked stranger in her bed.

Kip visits her apartment to pick up his tux sees Griffin putting on his clothes and gets upset, threatening griffin and leaves. Margot, needing someone to accompany her to her sister's wedding, convinces Griffin to join her, as no one in her family has seen Kip or knows what he looks like.

The pair goes to the wedding together. Along the way, they meet an older married couple and make friends with them. The woman gives Margot her pink coat, telling her that thanks to the coat, her husband was able to find her after nearly losing her.

After several complications, Margot and Griffin arrive at the wedding where Griffin (claiming to be Kip) becomes an unexpected hit.  Unfortunately for Margot, the real Kip shows up, and the whole charade is ruined. Margot and Griffin seem to go back to their respective partners, but realize that they truly care for each other. Margot comes to Griffin's home with the bag that he left at her place. She shows him an old tattoo of a griffin on her shoulder and they fall on his bed together, kissing. A crying Clementine shows up, prompting Margot to leave.

The next day, Griffin meets his parents at the same café where he and Margot had met, and they comfort him, saying he has yet to find his true love. Suddenly, he sees the pink coat, and with it, Margot. They share a kiss.

####The Accidental Husband####
Patrick Sullivan is looking forward to a life with Sophia, until she calls into the radio show hosted by famed love expert Dr. Emma Lloyd. Emma questions Sophia’s concept of romantic love and advises her to break their engagement, which she swiftly does.

Patrick is so upset that when he hears that Emma is about to be married herself, he allows his young neighbour, Ajay, to hack into public records and create a fake marriage certificate between himself and Emma. Upon going to the public records office to get a marriage license, Emma and her perfect-gentleman fiancé, Richard, are told she is already married.

Emma sets out to find Patrick and give him annulment papers to sign so that she can marry Richard. Emma finds Patrick in a bar, and their initial meeting ends with her getting drunk. The following day, Patrick comes to Emma's workplace to give her the annulment papers as she is leaving for a wedding cake tasting. Patrick accompanies her to the tasting, where Frau Greta Bollenbecker assumes he is Emma's fiancé, Richard. Greta later comes to Emma's book launch because her husband Herr Karl Bollenbecker is planning to liquidate Richard's publishing house. Greta meets Emma during the banquet and tells her of the same. Patrick still has the annulment papers, so he comes to the book launch. Matters get worse when Richard sees Greta and Karl with Emma and Patrick, who is posing as Richard, but Richard agrees to go along with it when he learns that Greta thinks Patrick will charm Karl so much that Karl will decide to continue business with "Richard".

Patrick invites them all to Ajay's lang|sa-Latn|upanayana ceremony. Emma and the other guests have a good time there, and she sees a whole new side of Patrick, who had been repulsive to her so far. There is a slight spark of attraction, but Emma flees the scene before anything can happen.

Patrick decides to throw out everything related to Emma or Sophia, but instead reads Emma's book, "Real Love". He comes to confront her about the book because he thinks it only points out all the bad things in a relationship. Patrick and Emma continue their argument in an elevator. Suddenly Patrick flashes his New York City Fire Department badge and asks the other occupants to leave the elevator. He then locks the elevator to kiss Emma. Security staff see them through a CCTV in the elevator and ask them to leave.

Emma finally has the signed and notarized annulment papers, but she considers calling off her wedding. She goes to Patrick’s lodgings and they make love that night. The following morning, Emma finds all the papers related to her and Sophia in the trash. Patrick then confesses that he had initially wanted to teach her a lesson about love but then fell for her. Emma then goes back to the honorable Richard, who still loves her and says that she wants to marry him.

One day before her wedding, Patrick calls her at the radio station and tells her that he loves her. She does not answer him. The next day on her wedding day, she confides in her father, Wilder, and asks for his advice. He tells her that the decision is hers. Richard comes to see Emma in the bridal chamber. Richard had also heard the radio show the night before and tells her that he wants her to be happy, and they amicably break up.

Emma sets off the church's fire sprinklers in an attempt to get Patrick to the church. Meanwhile, the fire department where Patrick works is called to the church to put out the fire. When Patrick arrives there, Emma and Patrick get married and leave in the fire truck. The final scene shifts to a year later where it is shown that Emma is pregnant and that she and Patrick are still very much in love.

####Accidental Love####
Alice is a waitress in a small Indiana town. She and her boyfriend, Indiana State Trooper Scott, are on a dinner date. Just as he pulls out a ring and starts proposing to her, a repairman using a nail gun in the middle of the fancy restaurant falls and fires a nail into her head.

Doctors refuse to operate, because she does not have health insurance. They inform her that the nail will influence her psychologically, making her sexually uninhibited, prone to fits of anger and rage, and randomly speak Portuguese. Scott temporarily rescinds his proposal, not wanting to marry a woman prone to bouts of anger.

Alice's parents hold a fundraiser to cover her operation, but only come up with $600. Aunt Rita, the local vet, perform a free but unsuccessful operation. Alice reacts with a temper tantrum, and Scott breaks things off; he starts dating Alice's co-worker.

Alice is consoled by local pastor Reverend Norm, who is suffering from an experimental drug's effect which caused a perpetual erection. He is accompanied by Keyshawn, who has a problem with a prolapsed anus that is also pending treatment. Neither of them have healthcare coverage.

Alice sees junior Congressman Howard Birdwell on television, speak about how he wants to serve the people of Indiana, inviting his constituents to bring their issues to him. Alice decides to go to Washington, D.C., with Reverend Norm and Keyshawn.

They reach Howard's office, but sent away when House Whip Pam Hendrickson arrives. Hendrickson is bullying Howard into helping her become Speaker of the House, and also raise funds for her military moon-base initiative.

Keyshawn falls in love with Congress security guard Rakeesha and departs with her on a date, while Reverend Norm goes back to their motel to nurse his erection. Alice waits in the hallway for Howard. Just when they meet, her sexual inhibition kicks in, with the two  having sex in a cloakroom. Howard promises to help Alice if she agrees to support the moon-base funding.

Hendrickson has garnered the support of the Squaw Girls, who are falsely promised an appearance by Shakira at their national jamboree.

Alice and the Squaw Girls do their bit to promote the moon-base at a press event. However, House Speaker Buck McCoy is so impressed with the moon-base hype that he makes it "his" project, taking credit while enjoying the Squaw Girl cookies that were baked in honor of the moon-base. McCoy chokes on his cookie and though they try to revive him with a defibrillator, Hendrickson secretly unplugs it and McCoy dies.

At the funeral, Alice hijacks the podium and convinces those present that McCoy wanted everyone to have healthcare and did not care about the moon-base. The Squaw Girls, upset with the betrayal over Shakira, promote the moon-base cookies as toxic and start promoting the "Alice's Law" healthcare bill.

Hendrickson plots revenge. She has her aide, Edwin, afflict the Squaw Girls with poison ivy and create a false narrative that they are promoting childhood lesbianism. Howard disappears and Hendrickson brings Scott from Indiana to convince Alice to return home as his girlfriend. Alice discovers the ruse and asks Scott to help her. Scott finds Howard at a retreat, trying to regain his manhood, and convinces Howard to return.

When congress convenes and Hendrickson is promoted to Speaker, she reveals that Howard slept with multiple female lobbyists to promote his own issues, doing the same with Alice. Howard confesses, drops the health care bill and returns to the party fold. Alice tries to ask congress to consider her plight, but they overwhelmingly vote against the health care bill.

Alice is packing to leave when it is revealed that Howard successfully tacked a health care billsndtightly specified to cover the maladies of Alice and her friendssndto the moon-base bill. The bill passed, with Hendrickson admitting to reporters that members of Congress rarely read the bills. Howard is forced to resign.

Reverend Norm officiates the wedding of Rakeesha and new congressional candidate Keyshawn. Alice is about to propose to Howard when Keyshawn damages her eye with a champagne cork.

####Adam & Steve####
In 1987, Adam (Craig Chester), a shy, cynical, Jewish kid, encounters Steve (Malcolm Gets), an attractive Dazzle Dancer performing at Danceteria one night. The two flirt and go back to Adam's apartment to have sex, with Steve offering Adam the latter's first hit of cocaine. Unbeknownst to Steve, the cocaine is cut with baby laxative, resulting in Steve losing control of his bowels and explosively defecating all over Adam's apartment. Humiliated, Steve flees.

Seventeen years later, Adam is a jaded ex-substance addict working as a New York City tour guide, and Steve has become a successful psychiatrist. By sheer coincidence, the two meet when Adam accidentally stabs his dog and Steve, who dabbled in veterinary medicine, treats the animal at the hospital. Both Adam and Steve fail to recognize each other from their previous meeting.

Adam and Steve strike a fast friendship and begin dating, eventually falling in love; Steve introduces Adam to his latently religious parents, and Adam introduces Steve to his disaster-prone family. Rhonda (Parker Posey) and Michael (Chris Kattan)—Adam and Steve's respective best friends—are initially wary of the other's friend and openly hostile toward one another, but soon themselves fall in love and begin dating.

Steve's feelings for Adam grow, and eventually he confides in Michael and Rhonda that he plans to propose marriage to Adam. On the Brooklyn Bridge, however, right as Steve prepares to propose to Adam, Adam absentmindedly muses that his entire litany of substance abuse and relationship problems were sparked by his disastrous affair with an incontinent Dazzle Dancer back in 1987. In that instant, Steve realizes who Adam is; horrified at this revelation, and feeling responsible for all of Adam's problems, Steve abruptly breaks up with Adam.

Adam falls into despair until Rhonda wheedles the truth about Steve's past from Michael; she and Michael reveal all to Adam. Adam angrily confronts Steve, who is apologetic, but still upset and scared by feelings of responsibility for Adam's problem-filled life.

Adam is still upset and prepared to give up on their relationship, but Steve apologizes more humbly and professes his love to Adam (buffeted by singing a piano-accompanied version of the song "Something Good"); Adam softens and accepts. Steve moves forward with his marriage proposal. The film ends with the two marrying in an outdoor ceremony, with all their friends and family in attendance.

####Adam's Rib####
Doris Attinger follows her husband with a gun in Manhattan one day, suspecting he is having an affair with another woman. In her rage, she fires wildly and blindly around the room and at the couple multiple times. One of the bullets hits her husband in the shoulder. His lover escapes unscathed.

The following morning, the married New York lawyers Adam and Amanda Bonner read about the incident in the newspaper. Adam is an assistant district attorney, while Amanda is a solo-practicing defense attorney. They argue over the case. Amanda sympathizes with the woman, particularly noting the double standard that exists for men and women regarding adultery. Adam thinks Doris is guilty of attempted murder. When Adam arrives at work, he learns that he has been assigned to prosecute the case. When Amanda hears this, she seeks out Doris and becomes her defense lawyer.

Amanda bases her case on the belief that women and men are equal, and that Doris had been forced into the situation by her husband's adultery and emotional abuse. Adam thinks Amanda is showing contempt for the law, since there should never be any excuse for such criminal behavior. Tension increasingly builds at home as the two battle each other in court. The situation comes to a head as Adam feels humiliated during the trial when Amanda encourages one of her witnesses, a woman weightlifter, to lift him overhead. Later at home that evening, Adam still angry, gives Amanda an earful; he doesn't want to be married to a liberated "new woman." Having just packed his bags, he storms out of their apartment. When the verdict is returned, Amanda's plea to the jury to "judge this case as you would if the sexes were reversed" proves successful, and Doris is acquitted.

That night, Adam, who has left their upper-floor apartment, looks through its window and sees the silhouettes of his wife Amanda and their neighbor Kip Lurie, a popular singer, songwriter and piano player who has shown a keen interest in Amanda all along, and repeatedly taunted Adam, as the two of them seem to be dancing and drinking together. Adam breaks into the apartment enraged, pointing a gun at the pair. Amanda is horrified and says to Adam, "You've no right to do thissndnobody does!"  Adam feels he has proven his point about the injustice of Amanda's line of defense. He puts the gun in his mouth, as Amanda and Kip scream in terror. Then Adam bites a large piece off the gun and chews it. It is made of licorice. Amanda is furious with this prank and a three-way fight ensues.

Now in the midst of a divorce, Adam and Amanda reluctantly reunite for a meeting with their tax accountant. Going through their expenses for the year, they talk about their relationship in the past tense. They talk about the farm they own and recall burning the mortgage. Tears begin to roll down Adam's cheeks. Astonished and touched, Amanda gently bundles her sobbing husband out of the office and to the farm. That night, while they are getting ready for bed — in an antique, curtained four poster — Adam announces that he has been selected as the Republican nominee for County Court Judge. Amanda perches on the edge of the bed and jokes about running for the post as the Democratic candidate. Adam replies, no she won't, because then he would cry. He demonstrates how easily he can turn on the tears, remarking that men can do it too, they just don't think to. Amanda says that just goes to show that there is no difference between the sexes...Well, maybe there is a "little" difference. "You know what the French say," Adam declares 'Vive la différence!'...'Hurray for  that little difference!'" as he jumps onto the bed and closes the curtains.

####Addicted to Love####
The story begins in a small town, where Sam works as an astronomer and enjoys an idyllic life with his childhood sweetheart Linda, who is a schoolteacher. She wants more experiences than can be offered in their small town, so goes to New York City for a two-month teaching fellowship.

Instead of returning home, Linda sends Sam a Dear John letter announcing that she is staying in New York. He leaves almost immediately for the city, convinced he can get her back.

Sam quickly discovers Linda's living with a new lover, French restaurant owner Anton. Sam breaks into an abandoned building across from Anton's residence, and converts his astronomy equipment to surveillance equipment. He sets up house (and a camera obscura), watching her interactions with Anton in the hopes of finding out more information about them, as well as predicting when they will break up.

Sam's surveillance operation is later discovered by Maggie, a photographer and motorcyclist, determined to get revenge on Anton, her ex-fiancé. She sets up in a nearby room, and soon has sound equipment set up to eavesdrop on the couple.

Out of money and to find out more about him, Sam takes a job at Anton's restaurant as a dishwasher. As the men talk they become friends, Anton unaware of Sam's connection to Linda. Partnering with Maggie in the hopes of driving them apart, a comedy of errors ensues, in which Maggie and Sam try several unethical and nasty tricks to break apart their respective former partners, including: identity theft, assault, embarrassing him in public with a street performer's monkey, paying children to spray him with women's perfume in the street, planting women's underwear and receipts for expensive gifts and getting Anton's restaurant shut down by bringing in cockroaches on a busy night with a food critic there.

Mutually hostile at first, Sam and Maggie eventually warm up to each other in their quest to break up Linda and Anton, complicating their original mission to win their former partners back. When Maggie's nan visits, she insists they kiss for a photo (she believes he is her fiancé), and they obviously share a moment. But suddenly they discover Linda has left Anton. He really had slept with another woman, someone in the bank to help with a loan.

Maggie pushes Sam out, as Linda is now gone, and he runs into a desolate Anton, who talks him into joining him at his place. Maggie watches as they interact. The next day, she's there to spy on Sam when he sees and kisses Linda, and again spies on him that night as he helps a severely injured Anton he unintentionally got put into an upper body cast. Sam mentions Linda, which makes Anton realise something  is fishy about Sam, and he attacks him.

The upshot of it all is, Maggie makes peace with Anton, Sam comes clean with Linda and in the closing there are two couples:  Sam and Maggie, Anton back with Linda.

####Adorable####
Janet Gaynor plays a rebellious princess who must try to marry the man she loves, instead of the stuffy old prince her parents want her to marry. But will this ordinary man love her back once he finds out she's a princess?

####The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D####
Max is a ten-year-old boy living in the suburbs of Austin. In his imagination, he has created Planet Drool, where his dreams come to life. It contains two main characters: Sharkboy, whom sharks raised after losing his father (a marine biologist) at sea and became a shark-hybrid himself, and Lavagirl, who can produce fire and lava but has trouble controlling her power so that objects often catch fire when she touches them. Max's parents have little time for him in the real world due to their troubled marriage. At school, he is bullied by his classmate Linus. He does receive friendship from Marissa, the daughter of Max's teacher, Mr. Electricidad. Linus steals Max's dream journal and threatens to "make changes". The next day, twin tornadoes form outside the school. Sharkboy and Lavagirl emerge from the storm and ask Max to accompany them to Planet Drool, which he learns is turning bad thanks to Mr. Electric, a robot resembling Mr. Electricidad and the dreamworld's now-corrupt electrician, under the orders of an unknown mastermind. They travel to Planet Drool with the Shark Rocket and crash land.

They confront Mr. Electric in his lair, but he drops them into the Dream Graveyard, where many of Max's dreams have been dumped. They find Tobor, a robot toy Max never finished building after being discouraged by his father. Tobor carries them to other parts of the planet. The three of them bond during their journey but face hardships, such as Sharkboy's anger that the oceans are frozen over and Lavagirl's desperation to find her true purpose. While being pursued by Mr. Electric and his evil plug-hounds, they plan to reach the Ice Princess and obtain the Crystal Heart, with which they could freeze time, granting them enough time to reach the center of Planet Drool and for Max to repair the dreamworld by re-dreaming it. Instead, they are captured by Mr. Electric and delivered to the mastermind, who is revealed to be Minus, a villain resembling Linus who has altered Max's journal and hence the dreamworld. After being trapped in a cage, Sharkboy becomes enraged by singing bubbles and destroys the cell in a "shark frenzy". Max retrieves his dream journal while Minus is sleeping. Reading the book, Max informs Sharkboy that his father is still alive, but when Lavagirl wishes to learn what it says about her true identity, she grabs the book, and it burns to ash. In a desperate rage, Lavagirl asks Max why he made her out of lava and runs off. Max wants to follow, but Sharkboy tells him to let her cool down.

The three eventually reach the Ice Princess, who resembles Marissa. She hands over the Crystal Heart, but they cannot stop the corruption since the Ice Princess is the only one who can use the Crystal Heart's power and cannot leave her home. Afterward, Mr. Electric knocks Sharkboy unconscious by tricking him into jumping into a lake filled with electric eels, which are his weakness. Lavagirl sacrifices herself by jumping into the water to retrieve him. Max realizes he has been selfish in wanting to return to Earth. Tobor appears and convinces Max to dream a better, unselfish dream. Just then, Sharkboy regains consciousness and races Lavagirl to a volcano to revive her. Max realizes that Lavagirl's purpose is as a light against the darkness, engulfing Planet Drool. Max becomes the Daydreamer and gains reality-warping powers to defeat Minus. He then offers that the two join to make a better dreamworld, and Minus agrees. Lavagirl thanks Max and Sharkboy for saving her.

Minus offers to let Mr. Electric return to running Planet Drool, but Mr. Electric reveals that he never enjoyed doing so in the first place. He tells Max that he made a terrible mistake of dreaming him up and flies to Earth to kill Max while he is dreaming. Max awakens back in his classroom during the tornado storm. Mr. Electric arrives in the tornado in front of the class and an astonished Mr. Electricidad. Max's parents are caught in the tornado but are saved by Sharkboy and Lavagirl. Max gives the Crystal Heart to Marissa so she can use the Ice Princess's powers to freeze and destroy Mr. Electric. Mr. Electricidad, Linus, and Max make peace with one another, and Max reunites with his now-reconciled parents.

Later, Max informs his class that Planet Drool is a proper dreamworld again, that Sharkboy is now King of the Ocean and that Lavagirl is Queen of Earth's Volcanoes. As Max finally repairs Tobor, he reminds the class (and the audience) to "dream a better dream and work to make it real".

####The Adventurous Blonde####
Torchy Blane (Glenda Farrell) is handed a telegram, which she reads before realizing that it was actually for Theresa Gray (Natalie Moorhead) the woman sitting next to her on the train. Torchy's own telegram is from her boyfriend detective Steve McBride (Barton MacLane) announcing that he will have a minister waiting to marry them when she arrives at the train station.

When rival reporters jealous of Torchy's success, decides to get even for repeated news scoops by Torchy, and fearing that her forthcoming marriage to Steve McBride will forever keep them from getting news tips from the police department. Four reporters, Mat, Dud, Mugsy and Pete, decides to play a practical joke on her and conspire to fake the murder of an actor; for the dual purpose of blocking Steve's marriage to Torchy, and at the same time making her the laughing stock of all newspaper. The reporters hire an actor to play dead and phone Steve with the news. They hope that Torchy will report the death and that a second paper owned by publisher Mortimer Gray (Charles C. Wilson) will embarrass her by printing the truth. A fake broadcast comes to Steve and Torchy while driving to the minister in Steve's police car. The pair quickly goes to the scene of the crime and Torchy immediately phones her newspaper of the story. A newspaper extra edition, headlining the murder is quickly on the streets. The opposition newspapers print a denial of Torchy's story.

It is later learned that the hoax victim, Harvey Hammond, has actually been murdered and Torchy once again beat other reporters to the story. Several persons are suspects in Harvey's death including Grace Brown (Anne Nagel) an actress in Hammond's company, her boyfriend Hugo Brand (Anderson Lawler) and Theresa Gray, Hammond's ex-lover. Torchy frames Theresa for the murder in order to force a confession from publisher Mortimer Gray, her husband. Mortimer, who knew about the proposed joke, was jealous of his wife's relationship with Hammond and seized the opportunity to kill him. He confessed to the crime before taking poison. Cleared of any suspicion, Hugo and Grace are married by Torchy's waiting magistrate, and Torchy and Steve postpone their wedding once again.

####The Affairs of Martha####
The peace and quiet enjoyed by the residents of the exclusive neighborhood of Rock Bay, Long Island is disturbed by a newspaper gossip column tidbit that one of their maids is writing a tell-all book about her employers. Since the author is not identified, each family fears that its secrets will be aired in public. Among those confused and distraught are Dr. Sommerfield and his wife Sophia. Their teenage daughter Miranda, however, is thrilled. Their longtime cook Mrs. McKessic arranges a meeting of the neighborhood servants, in which they decide to band together against the attempts by many of their employers to spy on them to learn who the writer is.

The author is the Sommerfields' young maid Martha Lindstrom. She secretly visits her publisher, Joel Archer, to try to get him to stop planting stories in the newspapers to generate interest in the upcoming book.

When the Sommerfields' son, Jeff, returns unexpectedly after a year and a half away studying the Eskimos, he introduces the family to his new fiancée, mathematician Sylvia Norwood. This upsets Martha greatly, although she manages to hide it. It turns out that just before he left on his expedition, Jeff got drunk and married Martha. When he sobered up, he had second thoughts. As he had to leave almost immediately, he gave Martha money to get an annulment or a divorce. Unbeknownst to him, she did not do so, as she was in love with him. Instead, she took night classes to make herself more acceptable to his social class. Jeff is surprised to find her still working for his family. When he discovers they are still married, he insists she get the marriage dissolved so he can wed Sylvia.

To complicate her life even further, both Archer and local Casanova and handyman Danny O'Brien are strongly attracted to Martha. She is tempted by Archer, as Jeff shows no signs of returning her feelings for him.

Finally, Archer crashes the Sommerfields' dinner party, and is provoked by the guests' harsh comments into stating first that he will be publishing the book and then that Martha is the author. After the last revelation, Martha flees with Archer in his car. Jeff realizes he loves her; he chases and catches her, and they are reconciled.

####The Affairs of Susan####
Susan Darell, a successful dramatic actress, returns to New York City from a tour entertaining the troops overseas. She is about to marry Richard Aiken, even though they have only known each other for a few weeks. Then Richard discovers that Susan has an ex-husband (and her current Broadway producer) named Roger Berton and two other former boyfriends when he sees their pictures in her living room.

At a cocktail party, he meets all three, each of whom describes her as an entirely different person. Worried, he invites them all to dinner, where he asks them to tell him all they know about her. Roger is willing, but the other two start to walk out. However, when Roger starts reminiscing about Susan, they sit back down.

Roger meets Susan while on vacation in Rhode Island. When actress Mona Kent shows up, hoping to be cast as Joan of Arc in his next production, he flees by rowboat to an island. He talks a man into letting him board at his house for a while. He meets Susan, the man's niece, who lives there. Initially suspicious of her, he discovers that she is straightforward and honest and completely uninterested in acting. However, he thinks she is perfect to play Joan and makes her an actress, against her strong resistance. Then they fall in love and get married. Just before the premiere of "Joan of Arc", Mona shows up and tries to sabotage it by getting a naive Susan drunk. Roger finds out in time and sobers her up. Susan draws rave reviews, but hardly anyone comes to see the play. Roger becomes repeatedly annoyed when Susan's complete honesty and forthrightness cause trouble for him. They divorce as a result.

Next up is Mike Ward, a wealthy lumberman from Montana. He meets Roger in a bar. When Roger sees how rich he is, he invites Mike to his office to discuss Mike investing in Roger's next show. A more sophisticated and less honest Susan barges in during the meeting, and taking a lesson from Mona, flatters Mike and takes him to lunch. Mike falls in love and begins proposing to her in a nightclub. Susan starts to let him down gently when Roger barges in and, assuming the worst (and wanting to reconcile with her), infuriates Susan into accepting Mike. However, Mike finds out about Susan's (fairly innocent) lying and breaks up with her.

Then novelist named Bill Anthony meets Susan in a park. Under Bill's influence, Susan turns into an intellectual. When Roger tells her that Bill does not believe in marriage, she does not trust him. She gets Bill drunk, knowing that when he is intoxicated he will agree to anything, and sets out to find a justice of the peace to marry them, but at the last moment, changes her mind. Back in the present, Bill regrets that she did not go through with it.

Reassured, Richard decides to go ahead with the marriage. However, Mike and Bill both propose to Susan again. She gently turns them down. Roger tells her that when they were first married, she was too young. Now she has grown up. She ultimately chooses him over Richard.

####Agent Cody Banks####
Cody Banks, a 15-year-old bullied high school junior in Seattle, applies for a junior field ops position at the Central Intelligence Agency's Special Activities Division after completing a training summer camp. Answering to his handler Agent Ronica Miles, Cody is called upon a mission to find information about a scientist named Dr. Albert Connors. Connors is employed by a SPECTRE-type organization named ERIS, led by Dr. Brinkman and his henchman François Molay. As every CIA officer is known to Brinkman's organization, the CIA uses the unknown Banks, who is placed into the prep school of Dr. Connors' daughter Natalie, the William Donovan Preparatory Academy.

Cody soon finds he has no social skill with girls and has no time to do this while balancing his chores and homework. The CIA decides to help by doing his chores and homework, trying to build his status, and going into the school to set him up with Natalie. The CIA also assemble a varying team of "experts" to train Cody into how to talk to girls, and issue him with a variety of gadgets with various functions.

Eventually, Cody befriends and falls in love with Natalie after rescuing her from falling off a ladder while putting up a banner, and he is invited to her 16th birthday party, where he goes undercover to her father's lab. Cody finds that Dr. Brinkman is planning to use nanobots — which can destroy any carbon or silicon-based substance — to destroy the world's defense systems so he can threaten anyone who opposes him. Since the nanobots are inactive in the cold, he plans to use ice cubes to distribute them. After Connors, Dr. Brinkman, and François leave the lab, Cody tries to take one of the ice cubes, only for it to melt his shoe when in his possession.

Shortly after this, Cody fights male bullies, at the party. The fight makes the school newspaper, and the CIA suspends Cody from the mission. Meanwhile, with Connors refusing to aid him in his plans, Dr. Brinkman sends François and some men to catch Natalie and bring her into his base in the Cascade Mountains. Meanwhile, disobeying orders to leave her out of it, Cody and Natalie eat ice cream at a restaurant. Cody attempts to explain things to Natalie but François and a group of henchmen come over to their table, beat Cody up, and take Natalie. Cody is fully removed from the mission and is grounded for being missing for hours from his house.

Cody gets his brother Alex to make sure his parents do not find out that he has disappeared by giving him the $5,000 the CIA gave him. Knowing Natalie's location via a tracking device in a necklace he gave her as a birthday present, Cody breaks into the CIA weapons hold and steals a rocket powered snowboard and other devices to rescue Natalie. Cody gets a ride to the top of the mountain and snowboards to the factory where Natalie is held. However, he gets caught in a grove of trees as Ronica finds him using a SoloTrek XFV. After convincing her that they need to rescue Natalie, the pair infiltrate the laboratory and Cody rescues Natalie, also explaining the truth about why he went out with her.

However, the trio are captured by Brinkman's men, although Cody quickly escapes. Natalie is held hostage by Dr. Brinkman, who puts an ice cube with nanobots inside on her forehead to make her father program the system. Cody sets off a series of explosive charges he and Ronica planted throughout the base, and in the ensuing battle, Ronica fights off several of Dr. Brinkman's men, and Natalie kills Dr. Brinkman by placing the ice cube with the nanobots into his mouth, causing it to melt, and the nanobots to devour him from the inside out. Cody later defeats François and sends him to the CIA using the SoloTrek XFV, before fleeing the exploding facility in a helicopter with Ronica, Natalie and Dr. Connors. The CIA welcomes Cody back to the team and congratulates him for completing the mission, and Cody decides to have Natalie earn her drivers license as a reward in which she succeeds in. Then they stop by at a beach cutting Ronica off when she calls. They then kiss starting a relationship.

####Aggie Appleby, Maker of Men####
Streetwise Agnes "Aggie" Appleby (Wynne Gibson), waitress at Nick's Restaurant, gets into a mass fight and escapes with friend Red Branaham (William Gargan). The fight was about her honor. They live together, but the money isn't coming in, as it should. Red Branaham is caught by the police and put into jail. Her landlady (Jane Darwell) puts her out as she is unable to pay the rent. So, Aggie goes to her friend Sybby (ZaSu Pitts), a cleaning lady who puts Aggie in the room of a man who's not expected for some time so she can get some sleep.  The man, Adoniram 'Schlumpy' Schlump (Charles Farrell), however, comes back earlier than expected and finds Aggie in his bed. She pretends to be a broke socialite. He is a gentleman, very much in love with a young woman of means, Evangeline (Betty Furness), whose letter he's expecting urgently. He's also seeking work.

Aggie calls him "an old goose" before she starts her program to remake his personality and to help help him find a job at the construction site on the other side of the road. Schlump asks Aggie to marry him, but she's not sure whether she still loves Red. She also fears that their different social and cultural background could become a problem. Auntie (Blanche Friderici) and Evangeline pop up at his room, so Aggie has to pretend to be a maid. Aggie ultimately sends Schlumpy back to Evangeline.

####Alex & Emma####
Alex Sheldon, a struggling writer, finds himself in a tricky situation. With writer's block and heavily in debt: he is broke, and must repay US$100,000 to the Cuban mafia. Since his publisher will give him the money when the novel is finished. He is given a 30-day ultimatum to pay the money he owes or they will kill him. And the only solution to this big problem is to finish his novel. Or rather, to start it, since he has not written one single line. But he has an idea for the story: A comedy about "the powerlessness of being in love, how love devours the insides of a person like a deadly virus".

He decides to hire the services of Emma Dinsmore, a stubborn stenographer, for her help to write the novel. The novel tells the story of Adam Shipley, a writer who has been hired to tutor the children of an attractive French woman. She is going through bad economic times, and Adam falls in love, despite the failed temptations of the "au pair".

As Alex dictates his novel to Emma, the movie cuts away to scenes from the novel, where Adam interacts with a series of nannies, and falls for the last one. As they work together, Emma begins to question his ideas. It starts to affect his life as well as his work. They soon fall for each other.

Alas, after finishing the book, Emma discovers that the French woman in the story was based on a real person, a former girlfriend of Alex. His ex just broke up with her latest boyfriend, sitting with him in a café she invites him to a charity ball. Alex soon realizes that the person he really wants to be with is Emma.

After the book is done and handed in to his publisher he pays off his debt. Then, after much prodding, he convinces Emma to rewrite the ending of the book in which Alex has changed. He shows her he wants her to be an important part of his life. Emma loves it, Alex professes his love to her, and they kiss.

####Alex Strangelove####
High school student Alex Truelove has long been best friends with Claire. After discovering her mother is being tested for cancer, she and Alex share a moment where Alex comforts her. They kiss and then begin dating. After Alex is embarrassed in front of his friends about still being a virgin, he and Claire make a plan to book a hotel room and have sex for the first time.

At a party, Alex meets Elliot, an openly gay teenager. Alex's continued interactions with Elliot, who has an obvious crush on Alex, lead him to question his sexuality. Alex confesses to his friend Dell that he believes he might be bisexual, but Dell says that he is just nervous about losing his virginity to Claire and his anxiety has led him to a false conclusion. One day while hanging out in Elliot's bedroom, Alex kisses him, but immediately regrets it and storms out.

During the evening of their first time having sex, Alex blurts out to Claire that he has feelings for someone else and she throws him out. Later, still avoiding Elliot, Alex goes to a party where he drunkenly sleeps with a girl he only just met. Claire catches them, and Alex chases her into the night. He falls into a swimming pool where traumatic memories from his childhood come back to him. Claire finds him by the pool, where he confesses to her that he is gay. They decide to go to prom together anyway.

At prom, Claire reveals she has invited Elliot to be Alex's actual date, knowing that neither of them would actually make the move without her "passing the baton". While Alex is initially concerned about everyone watching him, he decides that his affection for Elliot is stronger and kisses him.

The story ends with Alex creating a video with Claire detailing his coming out.

####Alias a Gentleman####
Jim Breedin has been in prison for 15 years but his daughter Nora doesn't know it. He has had no contact with her since she was a child. On an honor farm where he is foreman, Jim meets new convict Johnny Lorgen, who mouths off until Jim sets him straight. They become friendly and talk about their futures.

About to get out, Jim is offered $250,000 for his Oklahoma farm by an oil company. Nora, who had been living on the farm, is not there, Jim unaware that she has died. He accepts the money and begins living a life of luxury. A mob boss, Matt Enley, tries to persuade Jim to come work for him, without success. A diabolical plot is hatched, Enley's attractive moll Elaine Carter pretending to be Jim's long-lost daughter.

Johnny's jail sentence is up. Jim wants him to go straight, but working for Enley appeals to Johnny more. He also develops a crush on Elaine, whose guilty conscience makes her confess the ruse she's been pulling. Enley comes after Jim, who prevails, then invites Elaine to become his adopted daughter.

####Alibi Ike####
Frank X. Farrell (Joe E. Brown) is an ace baseball player whose insistence on making excuses earns him the nickname "Alibi Ike." In the course of his first season with the Chicago Cubs, Farrell falls in love with Dolly Stevens (Olivia de Havilland), sister-in-law of the team's manager. Farrell's "alibi" habit prompts Dolly to walk out on him, after which he goes into a slump—which coincides with attempts by gamblers to get Farrell to throw the World Series.

####The Alibi####
A man who runs an alibi agency, a service for adulterous husbands and wives that provides airtight alibis, runs into trouble with his latest client. In order to remedy the problem, he has to rely on a very enticing woman, his assistant and partner. The plot thickens when he switches identities with one of his clients for a weekend, and the client's girlfriend dies in an accident. With the police, an assassin, and a jealous ex-boyfriend to run from, he discovers that he will need all the ingenuity he can muster to survive.

####Alice####
Alice Tate is an upper-class Manhattan housewife who spends her days shopping, getting beauty treatments, and gossiping with her friends. She has been married to wealthy Doug for sixteen years, and they have two children, who are being raised by a nanny.

One day, she has a brief encounter with Joe Ruffalo, a handsome jazz musician. She finds herself mysteriously attracted to him and experiences Catholic guilt for these feelings. This inner turmoil manifests itself in a backache. She is referred to Dr. Yang, an Asian herbalist who puts her under hypnosis. She reveals that what initially attracted her to her husband were in fact his superficial qualities: looks and money. She also reveals her feelings about Joe.

Dr. Yang gives Alice ancient herbs that make her act on her feelings toward Joe Ruffalo. They agree to meet. When the herbs wear off, Alice is appalled at her behavior. She does not go to meet him as planned. The next herbs she receives turn her invisible. She spies on Joe going to visit his ex-wife Vicki. Much to prudish Alice's horror, they have sex in Vicki's office. Alice is now glad she did not go to meet Joe. However, the next herbal remedy allows Alice to communicate with the ghost of her first lover, Ed, who encourages her to discover more about Joe. Alice and Joe finally meet, under the pretense of their children having a "play-date". Alice and Joe's meetings become increasingly frequent.

When her guilt over her relationship with Joe becomes too much, Alice returns to Dr. Yang. Inhaling the soothing contents of a pipe, Alice falls asleep in Dr. Yang's rooms. She has vivid dreams about her Catholic upbringing. She remembers her mother. She remembers that she was at her happiest when she was helping people. She realizes that she has lost sight of many of her goals in her materialistic luxurious lifestyle. She also realizes this at a fundraising evening in honor of Mother Teresa, one of Alice's idols. After the fundraiser, Joe and Alice sleep together. Alice realizes she is falling in love with him.

Alice shares the remaining invisibility herbs with Joe. She hears two of her friends gossiping about her and Joe. The gossip then moves onto Doug, where it is revealed that he has been having affairs, too. Invisible, Alice goes to his office party, where she sees Doug kissing a colleague. Her invisibility wears off and she confronts Doug about his affairs. Alice decides to leave Doug once and for all. She tells this to Joe. However, Joe has decided to reunite with his ex-wife after he spied on her therapy sessions when invisible and realized she still has feelings for him.

Stunned, Alice goes to Dr. Yang, who is leaving town. He gives her one final packet of herbs, telling her that these will create a potent love potion. Alice must choose between Joe and Doug. She goes to her sister Dorothy for advice. However, Dorothy is having a Christmas party, and the herbs get mixed in with the eggnog. All the men in the party become enamored with Alice. She flees in panic.

At home, Alice tells Doug that their marriage is over. She reveals her plans to go to Calcutta and work with Mother Teresa. Doug scoffs at this, doubting that Alice could survive without the luxuries she has grown accustomed to. However, Doug is proved wrong. Alice goes to Calcutta, where she meets Mother Teresa. Upon returning to New York, she moves into a modest apartment, raises the children on her own, and does volunteer work in her spare time.

####All About Steve####
Mary Horowitz, a crossword puzzle writer for the "Sacramento Herald", is socially awkward and considers her pet hamster her only true friend. Her parents decide to set her up on a blind date.

Mary's expectations are low, as she tells her hamster. Mary is pleasantly surprised when her date turns out to be handsome and charming Steve Miller, a cameraman for the television news network CCN. Steve does not reciprocate her feelings.

After an attempt at an intimate moment fails, in part because of her awkwardness and inability to stop talking about vocabulary, Steve fakes a phone call about covering the news out of town. Trying to get Mary out of his truck, he tells her he wishes she could be there.

Mary believes Steve, so decides to pursue him. Her obsession gets her fired when she creates a crossword titled "All About Steve". Following her termination, Mary decides to track him around the country in the hopes of winning his affection. She is encouraged by CCN news reporter Hartman Hughes, who hopes to use Mary's encyclopedic knowledge in his reports to help get promoted to news anchor.

On the road, Mary annoys some bus passengers so much, the driver abandons her. She hitchhikes with a trucker named Norm, then meets and travels with a pair of protesters: Elizabeth, a ditzy but sweet and likeable girl, and Howard, who sells apples he carves into celebrities. She gradually grows close to the two.

Steve and crew end up covering a breaking news story: an old mine collapsed with numerous deaf children stuck inside. Initially, it appears that the children are rescued. Mary, who arrives on the scene, accidentally falls into the mine shaft as well while making a beeline for Steve.

It turns out that not all the children have been rescued, and Mary is trapped with one left behind. Steve begins to realize that Mary, in her own unique way, is a beautiful person. Just as she figures a way out, the two are joined by Hartman, who is made to feel guilty by Elizabeth and Howard for getting Mary into this predicament. Mary's rescue plan works, but she lets Hartman take the credit. She finally realizes she does not need Steve to be happy. In a voiceover she says, "If you love someone, set him free; if you have to stalk him, he probably wasn't yours in the first place."

After the end credits, a competitive TV reporter, in despair that Hartman got popularity by jumping into the sinkhole to save Mary, also jumps into it.

####All Dogs Go to Heaven 2####
Nearly 60 years after the events of the first film, Charlie B. Barkin welcomes his friend, Itchy, to Heaven, but states that he is disillusioned by the afterlife. Their old nemesis, Carface Caruthers, steals Gabriel's Horn, but loses it somewhere over San Francisco in his attempt to escape with it. When the head angel Annabelle announces the horn's theft, Charlie submits his candidacy to retrieve it, reminding Annabelle of his familiarity with street life. Annabelle sends Charlie and Itchy to Earth to retrieve it, and gives them one miracle to use. Upon arrival in San Francisco, Charlie and Itchy attempt to indulge in their old habits, but they discover that they are ghosts, and therefore unable to interact with the physical world. At a tavern where Charlie is enchanted by a beautiful and charming Irish Setter named Sasha La Fleur, Carface appears in a corporeal form granted by a red dog collar created by Red, an elderly dog fortune teller who gives Charlie and Itchy equivalent collars effective for a single day. Unbeknownst to the duo, Red is actually a large demonic cat who intends to take the horn for himself with Carface's help.

Charlie and Itchy meet Sasha and an 8-year-old human boy she is looking after named David, who ran away from home to become a street magician. Charlie uses his miracle to grant Sasha the ability to converse with David, who comes to believe that Charlie is his guardian angel. Charlie sees the horn being taken into an SFPD police station and recovers it, but in his reluctance to return to Heaven, he hides it in a lobster trap. After David's street performance ends in failure, he finally reveals that he believes that his father and stepmother, who are expecting a new baby, will care less for him once it is born. Charlie persuades him otherwise and promises to return him home, but privately expresses to Sasha his doubts on being able to fulfill his promise. Charlie and Itchy's collars vanish, and they once more become ghosts.

Carface kidnaps David and orders Charlie to bring Gabriel's horn to Alcatraz Island and give it to Red in exchange for David's life. Determined to keep his word, Charlie satisfies Red's demand, and Red uses the horn to capture and imprison Heaven's canine angels in Alcatraz while opening a portal to permanently connect the human world to Hell. After a struggle against Red, Charlie regains the horn and plays it to free the angels and send Red and Carface – the latter having sold his soul for his collar – back to Hell. Charlie and Itchy are spirited away to Heaven, and Charlie gives the horn back to Annabelle in exchange for a new life. Charlie bids farewell to Itchy, who decides to remain in Heaven, and while Annabelle and Itchy return to Heaven, Charlie returns to San Francisco and happily reunites with Sasha and David. David returns home and reconciles with his relieved father and stepmother. Charlie and Sasha, who have become mates, are adopted by David's family as pets.

####All I Want for Christmas####
In New York City, siblings Ethan (Ethan Randall) and Hallie O'Fallon (Thora Birch) launch a scheme to get what they most want for Christmas. A scheme involving their parents, Catherine (Harley Jane Kozak) and Michael (Jamey Sheridan), and grandmother, Lillian (Lauren Bacall). When Hallie meets Santa Claus (Leslie Nielsen), she asks for an unusual gift: her divorced parents back together again.

As the children embark on their adventure, and while planning ahead, Tony Boer (Kevin Nealon) takes an interest in Catherine. Ethan gets pre-occupied with not only his parents' romantic dilemma, but also his own, one brought about by his new friendship with Stephanie (Amy Oberer). An elaborate scheme evolves with mice, telephone calls, and an ice cream truck, as Ethan and Hallie try to achieve their goal with help from Stephanie, and see Tony as their primary obstacle. They succeed with a little Christmas magic from Santa Claus. Catherine decides to reject Tony and remarry Michael, completing Hallie's wish. Stephanie and Ethan talk one more time as she gives him a kiss; they begin a relationship, and everyone lives happily ever after.

####All in a Night's Work####
Tony Ryder's uncle, the wealthy publisher of magazines, has just died. The young playboy Tony inherits the paper but is left with a board of directors that thinks he's unsuited for the task, plus a hotel detective who thinks Tony should know about a girl who was seen running away from his uncle's Palm Beach hotel room, wearing nothing but a Turkish towel and an earring, on the night of his death.

Tony discovers that the young lady in question, Katie Robbins, is employed in his own research department. The board decrees that he must send in the detective to watch her and head off any attempts at blackmail. But the more time Tony spends trying to get Katie to open up about what her relationship to his uncle was, the less he cares. Complications ensue in the form of Ms. Robbins's fiancé—he's a strait-laced veterinarian—and the board's insistence that Katie be silenced at all costs.

####All Night Long####
George Dupler (Gene Hackman), a married man nearing middle age, is demoted after a temper tantrum at work (throwing a chair out of  his boss's window) and reduced to working as the midnight-shift manager of an all-night pharmacy/convenience store.

George's 18-year-old son, Freddie (Dennis Quaid), is having an affair with an older, married woman, who also happens to be Freddie's fourth cousin. George advises Freddie to stop the affair before it leads to any trouble, but Freddie declares that he might love her. One night at the store, George finally meets the woman, Cheryl (Barbra Streisand), an untalented singer-songwriter married to a volatile firefighter, Bobby (Kevin Dobson), and she begins to show an interest in him. After a while, the interest is mutual.

George goes to Cheryl's house to return her cigarette lighter. She offers to show George the paint job Freddie has done in her bedroom. George and Cheryl are about to get intimate, when Freddie comes over to see Cheryl for another tryst. George escapes before Freddie could see him, but Cheryl decides to tell Freddie about the affair she is having with his dad. The next day, when George is trying to sleep, and his wife, Helen (Diane Ladd), is having a French class, Freddie confronts his father, trying to fight him. Helen hears about the affair and George leaves. When she demands a divorce, George agrees.

George ends up quitting his job and leasing a loft where he can pursue his dream of being an inventor. George goes to an anniversary party where everybody he knows is there, including his family, plus Cheryl and Bobby. He realizes Bobby is aware of the affair with his wife. George takes Cheryl away from the party and her husband. Even though Cheryl loves him, she thinks he is too good for her.

Cheryl goes to the fire station where Bobby works to talk to him. Bobby ends up yelling at her and is about to hit her when the fire alarm goes off. He and all of the firemen leave, whereupon we see that it was George who reported the nonexistent fire.

Cheryl moves into George's place. Freddie has accepted the situation and helps her move in, showing that he and his dad have reconciled.

####All of a Sudden Peggy####
As described in a film magazine, Peggy O'Hara (Clark) who with her widowed mother Mrs. O'Hara (Leighton) is staying at the manor of Lord Anthony Crackenthorpe (Humphrey), a scientist engrossed in the study of spiders. Mrs. O'Hara is assisting Lord Anthony. The sister of the peer sends for her son Jimmy (Mulhall) because she thinks Peggy has designs on Lord Anthony. Jimmy falls in love with Peggy, and in order to further her mother's love affair with Lord Anthony, Peggy announces her engagement with Jimmy. She goes to London where her pocket is picked, and has to stay at Jimmy's bachelor quarters while he is away on business. The sudden appearance of Jimmy, his mother and father, and a prying neighbor precipitates matters, with Peggy having spent the night there suggesting a scandal. In the end it is straightened out and Peggy consents to marry Jimmy.

####All of Me####
Dissatisfied 38-year-old attorney Roger Cobb (Martin) is dating his boss' daughter and is also an aspiring jazz guitarist. A difficult, eccentric millionairess named Edwina Cutwater (Tomlin) has been bedridden since childhood. Edwina, who has employed Roger's law firm to manage her estate, asks him to make some unusual final arrangements to her will.

Having discovered she is dying, Edwina has enlisted the aid of a culture-shocked mystic named Prahka Lasa (Richard Libertini), who has mastered the secret of transferring human souls. She has made an arrangement with Terry Hoskins (Victoria Tennant), a beautiful young woman. Edwina wants her own soul placed in Terry's vacated body so that she can finally experience youth and health. Terry, who expresses discontent with the material world, will have her soul released to the universe. Roger is to change Edwina's will so that Terry, as Edwina's future self, is her sole beneficiary. Unsurprisingly, Roger believes the whole plan is "bananas".

Edwina dies at the law office. The soul-transfer works, but the bowl temporarily holding her soul falls out the window and hits Roger. Roger ends up with Edwina's soul sharing his body. She has control over the right side of his body and he the left. She causes him to lose both his girlfriend and his job. Besides being able to hear her thoughts, Roger talks to Edwina's image that appears in mirrors and other reflective surfaces. Their relationship gradually warms up, but both of them want Edwina out of his body. Meanwhile, Terry is shocked to learn that the soul transference really works, as she admits she only agreed to it to get Edwina's fortune. Terry tries to prevent Roger from finding the guru by sending him to the airport with a plane ticket, but when the holy man shows up again unexpectedly, she refuses to cooperate.

Roger pledges to help Edwina transfer to Terry's body as originally planned with the guru's help. They, along with Tyrone Wattell (Jason Bernard), Roger's blind friend and fellow musician, pose as band members and sneak into a party Terry is throwing at her mansion, newly inherited from the deceased Edwina.

Guru Prahka successfully transfers Edwina's spirit back into the bowl, but when Roger attempts to force Terry to touch the bowl, it is flung into a bucket of water, transferring Edwina into the liquid. Prahka explains that he must repair the dented bowl before her soul can be transferred again. Terry summons security to apprehend Roger and the bucket. Roger flees and pours the water into a pitcher, which he gives to Tyrone for safekeeping.

Roger allows himself to be caught with the bucket, which he has filled with ordinary water. Terry, however, appears with the pitcher, which she empties into a flower bed. Believing Edwina to be lost forever, Roger despondently wanders around the mansion as the party continues into the night.

When he reunites with Tyrone, Roger discovers that his friend, mistaking the water for gin, had drunk from the pitcher before Terry took it, thereby transferring Edwina into his own body. Guru Prahka, having repaired the bowl, sends Edwina back into Roger.

Roger, Prahka and Tyrone sneak into Terry's bedroom to attempt another transference, but she meets them at the door with a loaded gun. She intends to kill Roger and pass him off as an intruder, but Roger manages to gain the upper hand. In the course of the struggle another guest's life is threatened and he threatens to call the police. It is revealed that the discontent with the world Terry referred to included a storied criminal record, and rather than go to jail for life as a "three-strikes loser," Terry consents to having her soul placed into the body of her favorite horse and to let Edwina take up residence in her body as originally planned. The final shot shows Roger and Edwina (who now resides in Terry's body) dancing together.

####All Over the Guy####
The film is told mostly in flashback; with Eli (Dan Bucatinsky) recounting his side to Esther (Doris Roberts), an HIV clinic worker as he waits for test results and Tom (Richard Ruccolo) telling his side to a man he meets at an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting. Tom is the son of emotionally distant alcoholic WASP parents who never quite accepted his sexual orientation and as a result is a heavy drinker himself and has a penchant for random hookups with different men. Eli's parents are both Jewish psychiatrists who raised him to be emotionally open but ended up making him neurotic.

Tom and Eli are set up on a blind date by their best friends, Jackie (Sasha Alexander) and Brett (Adam Goldberg), who think they would be a perfect match. They're both looking for 'The One', but don't recognize it when they find it. On the date, a boring evening is broken up only by an amusing diatribe by Tom against the movie "In & Out". A few days later they run into each other at a flea market and hit it off, winding up back at Eli's place where Tom spends the night. The next morning Tom says that it was a mistake.

Jackie and Brett decide to try again to set them up, and the two men start to develop a relationship. Tom's fear of becoming emotionally close coupled with Eli's own insecurities makes it difficult for them to maintain, but Jackie and Brett get engaged which forces Tom and Eli together. They disguise their unease behind petty arguments over meaningless details of grammar and pronunciation but are finally able to push past the pettiness and make love. Eli tells Tom he loves him and Tom, terrified, lashes out at him the next day and drives him away.

The flashbacks end here on the day of Brett and Jackie's wedding. Esther tries to teach Eli to be more understanding of Tom's emotional needs. The AA member tries to sexually assault Tom and when he tells Jackie, she upbraids him for throwing Eli away for daring to fall for him. At the reception, Eli and Tom come to realize that they have to overcome their families' dysfunction and their own fears.

####All Roads Lead to Rome####
Set in valleys of Tuscany, Maggie returns to a town where she spent her youth, along with her daughter, when she comes across her ex Luca and his mother Carmen, who live in a villa nearby. Decades earlier, Luca and Maggie were wildly in love, but she left one day for America and cut off communication with Luca completely. Luca, who still harbours feelings for Maggie, tries to win her back.

Meanwhile, Maggie's daughter Summer is desperate to get back to America and her selfish boyfriend Tyler (who wants her to take the rap for a recent drug charge, arguing that as she's a juvenile she'd receive a less serious sentence than him), and Luca's mother Carmen wants to unite and marry her 60s youth flame Marcellino, whom she had been recently exchanging love letters with. In the chaos that follows, Summer and Carmen steal Luca's car and race for Rome, where Carmen and Marcellino have planned their secret wedding at a church. Summer, initially planning to leave for America via Rome airport, on seeing the honor and love of Carmen realizes that she is being used by Tyler, and surprisingly finds love in farm girl Ermenegilda. Maggie and Luca, racing behind the two, also bicker about their past, and rekindle their love as they head for Rome.

####An Almost Perfect Affair####
Hal Raymond, a young tyro filmmaker fresh from graduate school, arrives in France to attend the Cannes Film Festival, where he hopes to sell a movie he has made about the life and times of famed murderer Gary Gilmore. Unbeknown to him, he has failed to observe the proper bureaucratic procedures when bringing his film reels into the country, which forces customs officials at Nice Airport to seize them until further notice. In another queue at the airport is Maria Barone, a glamorous former actress and the wife of leading Italian film producer Federico 'Freddie' Barone. Maria's dog Mortimer is also retained at customs, after she is found to have concealed the animal in her hand luggage.

The following day, Hal returns to the airport to attend an interview at the customs agency with Lt. Montand, who tells him that the reels will not be released until the film censor has viewed them, which may not happen for another month. Leaving the office in a fury, Hal bumps into Maria, who has just been reunited with her dog. Informing her of his plight, she encourages him to persevere. The following day, Hal again encounters Maria in the lobby of the Hotel Carlton and invites her to lunch. Charmed by the young man's attention, Maria reckons that she can persuade her husband to contact the customs authorities and intervene on Hal's behalf. She then takes Hal to meet Freddie, who graciously agrees to phone the airport immediately.

In gratitude, Hal asks them both along to a party in Nice being hosted by his friend, Andrew Jackson – a sardonic director-producer, in town to publicise his own blaxploitation film. Although a visibly flustered Maria declines the invitation, when the party is in full swing later that evening she suddenly turns up unannounced. Hal and Maria dance and talk, later going back to Hal's room at the local Novotel to make love. Lying in bed afterwards, Maria admits that this is the first time she has cheated on her spouse. Unimpressed by Hal's spartan accommodation, back in Cannes the next day she arranges to meet him at the Palm Beach casino, where she wins big at craps – enough money for her to book Hal into a fancy boutique hotel further along the coast. As they are entering the hotel Hal spies Montand sitting at a nearby restaurant, who delivers the good news that the censor will now view his film.

Hal and Maria then enjoy a blissful day out in the country, at the end of which he complains about not being able to spend an entire night with her. Although distressed at having to deceive her husband, Maria asks Freddie if she can spend two days away in Paris prior to his film's gala premiere – a request to which the latter agrees without complaint. Hal, meanwhile, having already found that Jackson has muscled in on his film and taken control of its publicity campaign – including changing the title from the bland "Choice of Ending" to the more lurid "Shoot Me Before I Kill Again" – now has to endure the censor's screening before he and Maria can meet for their planned few days together. After nervously introducing it to a seemingly nonplussed audience, Hal finds his film has inspired positive reactions – Jackson pronounces it "sensational", while Montand reports that the film can finally be brought into the country. But Maria, who is also in attendance, is much less enthusiastic about what she has seen, and upon being forced to reveal her true feelings in the car afterwards she and Hal have a row, causing him to petulantly abandon her and hitchhike alone back to Cannes.

Hal is overcome with remorse by the next morning and returns to the Carlton, where he is able to follow Maria's limousine as it heads to the Barone family yacht for an outing prior to Freddie's evening gala premiere. Pursuing her onto a speedboat, Hal manages to separate Maria from her companions and drives the boat out into the middle of the bay, where it runs out of fuel. In an effort to prove his love, he throws his precious film reels into the water. Maria is unimpressed, however, pointing out that he still has the original 16mm negative, so the gesture means nothing. Only after Hal begrudgingly proclaims out loud that he loves her more than his film are the two reconciled. Eventually whisked away to attend the gala premiere by her security detail, Maria leaves Hal to make his own way back to the shore. Realising that Maria is set to leave the festival for good after the premiere is over, once on land Hal persuades Jackson to drive him to the airport. There he stops Maria and Freddie before they board their private jet. Maria explains that, although she loves him, she needs someone who considers her "more important than anything". After the jet has taken off into the night sky, Jackson improves Hal's mood by informing him that his film has been included in a package deal, and hands him a contract to sign.

####Along Came Polly####
Reuben Feffer, a risk-averse actuary for a large life insurance company, is celebrating his honeymoon with his new wife, Lisa Kramer, on the island of St. Barts, but catches her having sex with Claude, a French scuba instructor. Returning home to New York alone, he attempts to piece his life back together. Reuben goes to an art gallery with his friend, Sandy Lyle, where he runs into former junior high school classmate Polly Prince.

Reuben and Polly begin dating. She introduces him to activities he once wrote off as "too risky". This includes eating at a Moroccan restaurant, which ends badly due to Reuben's irritable bowel syndrome. Luckily, Polly gives him a second chance where they end up salsa dancing and later enthusiastically having sex, with Reuben shouting "50" at the climax.

The contrast between their two personalities is a source of comedy until Lisa returns and tells him she wants to reconcile. Meanwhile, Sandy, a self-centered, former teen idol, is trying to make a comeback by having an "E! True Hollywood Story" filmed about his life while starring as Judas in an amateur production of "Jesus Christ Superstar".

Reuben is torn between the free spirited Polly and the safe and familiar Lisa. To solve this issue, he enters information about them both into a computer insurance program which measures risk, but tilts the program towards Polly. The computer tells him that, despite his numerous blunders with her, she is the least risky choice for Reuben.

Polly joins Reuben on a sailing trip where he is to inspect Leland Van Lew, a high risk client, but she is offended when she sees his risk analysis of her. She rejects his proposal to move in together, telling him that he would be better off going back to Lisa. Back home, Reuben tries talking to Polly, but to no avail. He eventually invites Lisa to Sandy's opening show, where he learns that Polly is leaving New York in a few hours.

After a speech given by his father, Irving, to Sandy about not living in the past, Reuben realizes he wants to be with Polly and not Lisa, and he rushes to her apartment to stop her from leaving. Meanwhile, Sandy fills in for Reuben for his risk analysis presentation on Leland and successfully grants him his insurance.

Reuben eventually catches up with Polly and tries to persuade her to stay. She is not convinced she should stay with him, so he eats food off the ground to prove he is capable of taking risks. Polly is finally convinced and ends up dating Reuben, but they both agree they will take their relationship step-by-step and not rush into marriage.

Reuben and Polly vacation on the same beach where he and Lisa had their honeymoon. Reuben again encounters Claude, but instead of being angry, he thanks him for showing the ugly truth about Lisa before heading nude into the water with Polly to join Leland on his new boat.

####Alpha and Omega####
In Alberta, Canada’s Jasper National Park, Omega wolf Humphrey and his Omega friends slide down a hill on a log. However, the plan goes entirely wrong as they try to maneuver the log down the mountain. Meanwhile, Alpha wolf Kate practices her hunting skills on her younger Omega sister, Lilly, much to her annoyance. Humphrey and Kate join each other mid air, excited to see each other again. However, Humphrey begins to feel nauseated by their spinning, and the two fall onto the ground. As Humphrey tries to join Kate, Winston, leader of the Western pack and Kate’s father, stops Humphrey in pursuing her. He reminds Humphrey that Alphas and Omegas cannot mate according to pack law, and that Kate is going off to Alpha school until Spring. Humphrey looks on, saddened by her departure.

Spring time comes around, and both Kate and Humphrey mature. Humphrey and his friends seem to master the ways of log boarding, but their fun stops short when they crash into a rock. They then see Kate on her first ever hunt, pursuing a herd of caribou. As Kate and her team close in on the caribou, they are interrupted by a group of two enemy Eastern pack wolves, which causes a stampede. As Kate saves the two Eastern wolves from getting trampled, the Western pack wolves start a fight. Humphrey and his friends then break up the conflict. Later that night, Winston meets up with Eastern pack leader Tony, as they discuss the pack’s food shortage. The two then agree that merging the packs together would end their conflict, and decide that Kate should marry Tony’s Alpha son, Garth. Kate, overhearing their conversation, agrees for the good of the pack.

During the Moonlight Howl (the howling between wolves), Kate and Garth finally meet. Garth tries to show off his howl, but Kate is unimpressed and excuses herself. She then runs into Humphrey, but the two get tranquilized by park rangers and are taken to Sawtooth National Recreation Area in Idaho. The two meet golfing goose Marcel and his duck caddie Paddy. Kate and Humphrey learn that they were relocated to repopulate the species, and agree that they must return home to Jasper Park before the two packs start a war. As the packs discover that Kate has gone missing, Tony warns Winston that if Kate doesn’t return, war will be inevitable. Lilly decides to show Garth around the Western pack’s territory until Kate returns, and the two fall in love.

As Kate and Humphrey catch a ride on an RV, Humphrey has to urinate and gets out while the vehicle pulls over at a nearby gas station. He then finds a cupcake and eats it, as the frosting covers his mouth. Two men mistake him for a wolf with rabies, and they attempt to shoot Humphrey with a gun. Kate then leaps out to save him, and the two flee.
Kate, disappointed that they missed their ride home, leaves Humphrey out in the rain. Now traveling alone in the storm, Kate comes across a dangerous ravine, which has begun to flood. As Kate tries to cross it, she slips, and Humphrey comes to her rescue. Flattered by his bravery, Kate begins to admire Humphrey.

The following day, Marcel and Paddy find the wolves and direct them to a train heading to Jasper Park. Climbing over the snowy mountain, Humphrey finds a grizzly bear cub, and the two play as Kate goes to scout a head. As Humphrey throws snow at the cub, the cub begins to cry, which attracts an angry trio of grizzly bears. As the wolves slide off the side of the mountain, Humphrey and Kate ride on a log and manage to board the train.

As the two joke about their encounter with the bears, Kate and Humphrey begin to bond even closer. Back at home, Lilly compassionately teaches Garth how to howl. At the same time, Humphrey gazes at the full moon and begins to howl, urging Kate to howl with him. Although it is against pack law for an Alpha to howl with an Omega, the two begin to howl, falling in love. As Lilly and Garth finish their howling, Tony catches them, and ultimately declares war on the Western pack. As the train passes by Jasper, Kate and Humphrey’s exchange of feelings is cut short by the sight of the two packs at war. As they return, Kate announces that she will marry Garth to unite the packs. The day of the wedding, a distraught Humphrey bids farewell to Kate, and decides to leave as a lone wolf, much to Kate’s disappointment.

During the ceremony, Kate backs out and declares her love for Humphrey, as Garth subsequently declares his love for Lilly. Tony, enraged, declares war on the Western pack, and a large fight ensues. Their brawl is cut short by an oncoming stampede of caribou, and Winston and Tony get stuck between it. Humphrey and Kate cross paths, and work together by log boarding down the mountain to save them. They succeed, but Kate gets struck by the caribou in the process. As the stampede subsides, Humphrey tries to wake up Kate to no avail. Devastated, Humphrey begins to howl, causing everyone to howl with him. Kate then awakens to everyone’s joy, and she and Humphrey confess their love for each other, as Garth and Lilly confess theirs. Winston and Tony abolish the law against mating between Alphas and Omegas, and accept a union of the two packs via marriage between Garth and Lilly.

At the Moonlight Howl, the wolves celebrate the love of Kate and Humphrey, and Garth and Lilly, breaking the social classes and traditions. The movie ends with Humphrey and Kate howling a duet.

####Alto####
Frankie is an Italian American pursuing a career as a singer-songwriter with her band while balancing her relationship with a man whose dream is to start a frozen food label. Frankie's life becomes interesting when she discovers a dead body in her rental car and turns it over to the police. Frankie lives with her sister Heather who is obsessed with the mob lifestyle. Heather convinces Frankie to go with her to the real-life mob boss's funeral. At the funeral Frankie meets Nicolette, a charming, confident, beautiful woman who, unbeknownst to Frankie, is the new mob boss's daughter. Heather invites Nicolette to come to watch Frankie perform. Nicolette wants to help Frankie and her band make it big by getting her to perform on the hit TV show "Mob Hit". Nicolette and Frankie begin to spend more time together. Nicolette is into Frankie but Frankie is trying to process what kind of feelings she has for Nicolette, while being engaged to her longtime boyfriend. Meanwhile, a whole plot is slowly being uncovered on who tried to take out Nicolette's father and suspicions turn toward Frankie because she unknowingly knows people who are in the mob. Eventually it is revealed that Frankie's own father is a bookmaker for the mob boss, leaving Frankie feeling betrayed. However, Frankie is cleared of her association, and Nicolette and Frankie's romance is noticed by their families and Frankie's fiancé. At the end of the movie Frankie calls off her engagement to pursue her feelings for Nicolette and both women slowly try to gain the support of their parents.

####Always Be My Maybe####
Sasha Tran and Marcus Kim are childhood friends who grow up next door to each other in San Francisco. As Sasha's Vietnamese-immigrant/refugee parents regularly leave her home alone while they tend to their store, Marcus's parents often have her over for dinner, and Marcus's Korean-American mother Judy teaches her to cook.

Eventually Sasha and Marcus form a close friendship that carries on into their teenage years, but this is broken after his mother dies in an accident. Grieving, the two have sex but a wedge is driven between them when they argue shortly afterwards and they fall out of touch.

Sixteen years later, Sasha is a celebrity chef and engaged to Brandon Choi, a successful restaurateur. Marcus is still in San Francisco living with his widowed father and performs in a talented but largely unsuccessful band that only plays in his neighborhood. He also has a girlfriend Jenny, an Asian American woman with dreadlocks. Sasha breaks up with Brandon after he delays their wedding yet again. Briefly moving back to the Bay Area to oversee the opening of a new restaurant, she has a chance encounter with Marcus when he and his father are hired to install air conditioning at her temporary home.

After initial friction, they reconnect and become friends again, and Marcus admits to his father he still has feelings for Sasha. But before he can tell her, Sasha announces she has met someone new, and they wind up on a disastrous double date with Marcus' girlfriend and Sasha's new love interest: movie star Keanu Reeves. The long evening ultimately dissolves into chaos as Sasha confesses her longtime childhood crush on Marcus, a brawl breaks out between Marcus and Keanu, and Jenny ends up staying with Keanu for the night. Afterwards Marcus and Sasha have sex.

Sasha and Marcus then begin seeing each other, with Marcus reacquainting Sasha with the home and San Francisco Asian community she had distanced herself from, still harboring resentment of her absentee parents. He takes her to an old favorite Cantonese restaurant from their childhood, which Sasha remembers as terrible but discovers is delicious, marred only by her painful memories.

As Sasha reconnects to the city and the two fall in love, Marcus is taken aback to learn that, as planned, she still intends to move on to New York for her next project, once the San Francisco restaurant has launched. When Sasha asks Marcus to join her, he refuses and she leaves San Francisco alone.

Taken to task by both his father and his bandmates, Marcus realizes that his mother's death has made him scared to move on in life. He then moves out of his childhood home and takes steps to make his band more successful. He calls Sasha regularly with updates but, not receiving any reply, does not pursue her further until he discovers she is secretly supporting his musical ambitions. This emboldens Marcus to surprise Sasha on the red carpet at an awards show in Manhattan, asking for her to take him back and pledging to be wherever she is. She accepts. Reunited, Sasha takes Marcus to the New York restaurant she has been developing: it is named for and features Judy's recipes.

####Amarilly of Clothes-Line Alley####
Set in San Francisco during the early 1900s, the film revolves around Amarilly (Mary Pickford), the daughter of a widowed scrubwoman. Amarilly is proud of her hard-working Irish family, and takes care of her five roughhouse brothers. She is engaged to bartender Terry McGowan (William Scott), who gets her a job as a cigarette girl in his cafe after a fire unfairly causes her to lose her job as a theater scrubwoman. While working as a cigarette girl, she meets Gordon Phillips (Norman Kerry), a handsome and wealthy but frivolous young man, who is a society sculptor.

Terry becomes jealous when Amarilly starts hanging out with Gordon, and he breaks off the engagement. Gordon offers Amarilly a job with his wealthy and snobbish aunt, Mrs. Phillips (Ida Waterman). When the neighborhood is quarantined after a breakout of scarlet fever, Mrs. Phillips decides to take the time to teach Amarilly high class manners in a "Pygmalion"-like experiment. However, once she discovers her nephew has fallen in love with Amarilly, she turns against her. Mrs. Phillips tries to humiliate Amarilly by inviting her family over for a social party.

Amarilly is outraged and returns to her old home. She sees Terry and invites him for supper. He is delighted, and on the way to her house, he stops to buy expensive 50 cent violets, even though he had earlier passed up violets at 15 cents. He is shot by accident, and barely makes it to Amarilly's house before collapsing. Terry survives. Amarilly visits him in the hospital and tells him that when he gets out, they have a date at City Hall.

The final scene is five years later. Amarilly is in a sidecar on Terry's motor bike; they both are nicely dressed and seem to be doing well. Then it is revealed under the blanket she has a baby, and behind Terry is a little boy.

####The Ambassador's Daughter####
When a visiting American senator decides to make Paris off-limits to enlisted military personnel, the daughter of the United States Ambassador to France decides to show him that American servicemen can be gentlemen by dating one of them without revealing her lofty social status.  Sergeant Sullivan takes Joan to colorful nightclub cabarets, and on a comical trip up the Eiffel Tower, all the time believing her to be a Dior fashion model.

Thinking she has an emergency back in America, Sullivan offers to buy her an airline ticket, for which she is grateful, until she hears that counterfeit plane tickets are a common scam used by American servicemen to impress girls. Sullivan's friend, the homespun Corporal O'Connor, all the while is a guest of the Ambassador's family and other top brass, and tries to alert Sullivan as to Joan's true identity, but is unable to contact Sullivan (and is sworn to secrecy).

When Sullivan drops into the Dior fashion show one day to look for Joan, he discovers that the staff have never heard of her. However he sees Joan observing the show with her father's friend, the Senator, whom he mistakenly assumes must be her sugar daddy. On their last dinner date, Joan walks out on Sullivan, when he accidentally spills wine on her and offers to take her to his hotel room, thinking he is dishonorable.  Finally, one evening Sullivan and the Ambassador's family, by coincidence, separately attend the same ballet performance of "Swan Lake", where during the intermission Sullivan learns her true identity and their misunderstanding is resolved.

####America's Sweethearts####
Film publicist Lee Phillips (Billy Crystal) is promoting "Time Over Time", a movie featuring beloved husband-and-wife stars Gwen Harrison (Catherine Zeta-Jones) and Eddie Thomas (John Cusack), who have made countless popular films together. However, the eccentric director Hal Weidman (Christopher Walken) won't let anyone see the film until its premiere at a press junket, complicating Lee's job. And worse yet: Gwen and Eddie, once dubbed “America's Sweethearts”, have an ugly breakup.

Gwen's films without Eddie have been flops. On the Larry King Live show, she is thoroughly humiliated by Larry King causing her to apologize live. Her affair with co-star Hector Gorgonzolas (Hank Azaria), who now lives with her, caused Eddie to suffer a mental breakdown and he moves to a New Age retreat. Lee decides the press must believe the couple are reuniting to promote the film. Lee enlists Kathleen Harrison, nicknamed “Kiki” (Julia Roberts), who is Gwen's sister and personal assistant, to persuade Gwen that attending the junket will benefit her career and public image, where she can also serve Eddie divorce papers. At the New Age retreat, Lee informs Eddie of Gwen's humiliation on Larry King. He believes this is her karma for her affair with Hector and refuses to attend the junket. Eddie believes he's not well enough to face his past yet. Lee bribes his spiritual guide (Alan Arkin) with a luxury car to persuade him to attend.

At the junket, while Eddie and Gwen are fighting, Lee plants stories to the press they are reconciling. Gwen asks Kiki to be her go-between with Eddie, so they meet secretly to discuss the junket. Eddie's assistant leaks a photo of it to the press. Angered by the rumors about Gwen and Eddie, Hector shows up, confronts Eddie and knocks him out. As Kiki tends to Eddie, they admit their feelings and have sex. However, in the morning, as they are having breakfast, Gwen calls and Eddie rushes to meet with her. Hurt and angered, Kiki leaves, later becoming furious when Eddie tells Gwen he isn't seeing anyone. Confronting him, she says they can't pursue a relationship because he'll never get over Gwen. Downstairs, Lee tells Kiki not to give up on Eddie as he can see he has feelings for her.

Eddie has an epiphany while on the hotel roof, causing the press to believe that he's about to jump, and inciting Hector and the studio's owner Dave Kingman (Stanley Tucci) to encourage him in doing so. Gwen is thoroughly humiliated, warning him to stop as she wants maintain to the press that she and Eddie are reconciling. Hector tells her to stop bothering, pointing out that there's no need to hide their relationship. Gwen argues that they need to exercise caution because it's bad enough that her reputation is on the line. She's concerned that the press will find out she and Hector are the direct cause of Eddie's mental breakdown. Eddie tells Lee he's in love with Kiki and thinks he's blown it. Lee realizes his mistake, telling Eddie to pursue Kiki and divorce Gwen. Weidman then shows up via helicopter with the film.

The screening begins, and everyone discovers that Weidman abandoned the script, making a “reality movie” instead. The footage, mostly shot with hidden cameras and without the actors' knowledge, shows Gwen's unremorseful affair with Hector, gloating about it to then overweight and timid Kiki. Eddie becomes angry about Gwen's clear infidelity, but he otherwise appears sympathetic. He is shown to actually be in love with Kiki even before her weight loss and realized how much his marriage to Gwen is a mistake. Additionally, Dave Kingman is insulted by Weidman and mocked by his assistant. Hector enjoys the reality film very much, until Gwen insults him about the size of his penis. On the other hand, the film portrays Eddie and Kiki favorably, while Gwen is the antagonist due to her affair with Hector.

As a result, most of the cast and crew — particularly Gwen and Kingman — are offended and confront Weidman. Eddie appears pleased by the film's portrayal of what she did to him. He suggests working together again and Weidman agrees seeing that he understands the latter's vision. He reveals it was all his plan to ruin Gwen's career because of an earlier incident on set for insulting his vision and humiliate Kingman for being a selfish jerk for having not allowed him any creative control over his film. Enraged, she announces she will sue him for invasion of privacy and Kingman Studios for having not prevented it. Kingman tries to apologize to Gwen, but his assistant tells him off not to after what she did to Eddie and that he quits. Kiki is surprised, but not angered by the portrayal of her sister and also pleased to be shown favorably. Hector angrily confronts Gwen for humiliating him with her comments, despite Lee's attempts to do damage control and asking him to go back sitting down. Weidman's daughter, Leaf (Keri Lynn Pratt), defends both her father's work and him. She reveals their affair, pointing out Gwen's wrong to say Hector's small.

Humiliated, Gwen announces she is reconciling with Eddie, but he asserts he's finally through with her, and declares his love for Kiki. The latter reciprocates, standing up to Gwen for the first time, and revealing dirty secrets only she knew. She tells Gwen that she is tired of putting her personal life on hold to clean up the latter's mess each time she's in trouble with the press and wants her to take accountability for herself. Gwen retaliates by coldly firing her, before calming down and declaring she only wants Kiki's happiness, to look better to the press.

Outside, Gwen admits to the press that she and Eddie are over and is in love with Hector. She then claims she's on medication that makes her behave erratically and adds that he is very well-endowed. However, the press doesn't believe Gwen, having witnessed their relationship is disintegrating and how horrible of a sister she was to Kiki. Hector defends himself to the press, then humiliates her by announcing they too are through and had an affair with another co-star of theirs, Adina.

Kiki and Eddie prepare to leave together to travel and pursue their relationship. Lee arrives to tell them that, amazingly, the press love the movie and Kingman Studios have to release it despite Gwen's lawsuit threat.

####American High School####
It is the final week of senior year at American High School and Gwen Adams considers divorcing her new husband Holden Adams, whom she married because her rival Hilary Weiss is also trying to be his girlfriend. She faces the problems created by Hilary's plot to become prom queen and decides to run for prom queen herself. The married couple are caught having sex by Principal Mann. The principal faces forced resignation and hatches a plan with Gwen, another teacher and some other students, to get her job back from Ms. Apple. She is later crowned Prom Queen (albeit by shredding Hilary's votes earlier), she dumps her husband and decides she is leaving town and so is now finally free of Hilary. As the film ends, Hilary is shown getting rejected by the male students because of her promiscuous behavior.

####An American in Paris####
American World War II veteran Jerry Mulligan lives in Paris trying to succeed as an artist. His friend and neighbor Adam Cook is a struggling concert pianist and longtime associate of French singer Henri Baurel. At the ground-floor bar in their building, Henri tells Adam about his girlfriend, Lise Bouvier. Jerry then joins them before going out to try and sell his art.

Lonely heiress Milo Roberts notices Jerry displaying his work in Montmartre. She buys two paintings, then brings Jerry to her apartment to pay him. Jerry accepts an invitation to her dinner party for that evening, and on the way home, he sings "I Got Rhythm" with some local children. Upon discovering he is Milo's sole dinner guest, an offended Jerry says he is uninterested in being a paid escort. Milo insists she only wants to support his career.

At a crowded bar, Milo offers to sponsor an art show for Jerry. Milo's friends show up and while everyone is talking, Jerry notices a beautiful young girl at the next table. He pretends they know each other and asks her to dance, unaware it is Lise, the girl Henri loves. When Jerry wants her phone number, Lise, uninterested, gives a fake one. Someone at her table misunderstands and says the correct number. Milo, upset that Jerry flirted with another girl in her presence, wants to leave and later criticizes him for being rude.

The next day, Jerry calls Lise, but she refuses to see him. Meanwhile, Milo has arranged a showing with a collector interested in Jerry's work. Before the meeting, Jerry goes to the parfumerie where Lise works. She agrees to a late dinner, but wants to avoid public places; they share a romantic song and dance along the banks of the Seine River. She then rushes off to meet Henri after his performance ("I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise"). Henri tells Lise he is going on tour in America and proposes marriage to her.

Later, Adam humorously daydreams he is performing Gershwin's "Concerto in F for Piano and Orchestra" in a concert hall. As the scene progresses, Adam is also the conductor, other musicians, and even an audience member enthusiastically applauding at the end.

Milo rents Jerry an art studio and says she is planning an exhibition of his work in three months time. Jerry initially refuses the studio, but accepts on condition he will repay Milo when his work sells. After a month of courting, Jerry brings Lise to his apartment building. Jerry is confused when Lise takes off in the taxi in which she was waiting. He complains about it to Adam, who realizes that Henri and Jerry love the same girl. Henri and Jerry later discuss the girl they each love ("-'S Wonderful") without realizing it is Lise.

That night, Jerry and Lise reunite by the Seine. Lise says she and Henri are to be married and going to America. Lise feels duty-bound to Henri for protecting her during the war. Jerry and Lise proclaim their love for each other before parting.

A dejected Jerry invites Milo to the art students' masked ball, where they run into Henri and Lise. Jerry admits to Milo that he loves Lise. When Henri overhears Jerry and Lise saying goodbye, he realizes the truth. As Henri and Lise drive away, Jerry fantasizes through a diverse and extended dance scene with Lise, all over Paris, and set to George Gershwin's "An American in Paris". A car horn breaks Jerry's reverie; Henri returns Lise to him. They embrace and walk off together as the Gershwin composition (and the film) ends.

####American Wedding####
Jim Levenstein prepares to propose to Michelle at a restaurant when his dad calls to tell him he has the ring. She misinterprets when Jim stalls the question and his dad arrives as he is receiving fellatio from under the table. The mishap grasps everyone's attention but Jim still proposes and Michelle accepts.

Jim wishes to exclude Steve Stifler from the wedding, who becomes upset when he finds out. Stifler agrees to teach Jim how to dance if he is allowed at the wedding. Jim asks Stifler to mask his obnoxious personality in exchange for planning the bachelor party.

Jim, Stifler, Paul Finch, and Kevin Myers travel to Chicago to find the designer who makes the dress Michelle wants. Stifler inadvertently walks into a gay bar, and his initially raucous behavior gets several patrons annoyed. Battling Bear in a dance-off, Stifler is offered strippers by him for the bachelor party. Dress designer Leslie reveals himself and agrees to make the dress for Michelle.

Michelle's younger sister, Cadence, flies in for the wedding. Both Finch and Stifler are attracted to her, and, trying to win her over, they each act differently. Stifler arranges the bachelor party but does not tell Jim, who unknowingly invited Michelle's parents to dinner in his home. With assistance from Bear, who poses as a butler, Jim nearly succeeds in keeping the bachelor's party a secret, until Michelle's mother opens a closet door to find Kevin inside; blindfolded, stripped to his boxers, and tied to a chair. They explain that it was a failed attempt to make Jim seem like a hero, and Michelle's parents tell him if he puts that much effort into the upcoming marriage, they can give their blessing.

Michelle is concerned that Jim's paternal grandmother disapproves of the wedding as she is not Jewish. On the night before the wedding, Stifler inadvertently turns off the walk-in refrigerator while getting a bottle of champagne to seduce Cadence, which kills the flowers. Stifler finally reveals his true rude and obnoxious personality. Angry, Jim asks him to leave, and all the others, including Cadence (who has heard him talking about doing her), support Jim's decision.

Feeling guilty for his thoughtless behavior, Stifler convinces the florist to put together a new batch of flowers, and he enlists the help of his football players and Bear. As a gesture of remorse, he also gives a rose to Cadence. Moved by his actions, she agrees to have sex with him in a supply closet before the ceremony, but Stifler's presence is delayed by a brief meeting Jim calls among his groomsmen, citing how he is grateful to have friends like them.

Quickly returning to the hotel, Stifler hears someone in the supply closet and steps inside, unaware that Cadence was interrupted by wedding preparations and that Jim's disgruntled grandmother was shoved inside by the ushers, the "MILF guys" from high school. Stifler only realizes this upon walk-in by Finch and Kevin. She becomes pleasant, particularly towards Stifler, making Michelle and Jim's dad happy.

Despite the chaotic events leading up to it, Michelle and Jim get married. At the reception, the couple dances while Stifler dances with Cadence. Finch sits by himself when Stifler's mom arrives. Although agreeing they are over each other, Stifler's mom mentions having a hotel suite and invites Finch to join her. The film ends with the "MILF guys" (Justin and John) spying on Stifler's mom and Finch having sex in the hot tub.

####The Americanization of Emily####
Lt. Commander Charlie Madison is a cynical and highly efficient adjutant to Rear Admiral William Jessup. Charlie's job is to keep his boss and similar serving officers supplied with everything needed, including luxury goods and amiable women. He falls in love with a driver from the motor pool, Emily Barham, who has lost her husband, brother, and father in the war. Charlie's pleasure-seeking "American" lifestyle amid wartime rationing both fascinates and disgusts Emily, but she does not want to lose another loved one to war and finds the "practicing coward" Charlie irresistible.

Profoundly despondent since the death of his wife, Jessup obsesses over the United States Army and its Air Force overshadowing the Navy in the forthcoming D-Day invasion. The admiral decides that "The first dead man on Omaha Beach must be a sailor". A combat film will document the death, and the casualty will be buried in a "Tomb of the Unknown Sailor". He orders Charlie to get the film made.

Despite his best efforts to avoid the assignment, Charlie and his now gung-ho friend, Commander "Bus" Cummings, find themselves and a makeshift two-man film crew aboard ship with the combat engineers, who will be the first sailors ashore. When Charlie tries to retreat from the beach, Cummings shoots him in the leg with his Colt .45 pistol. A German artillery shell lands near the limping-running Charlie, making him the first American casualty on Omaha Beach. Hundreds of newspaper and magazine covers reprint the photograph of Charlie running, alone, making him a war hero. Having recovered from his breakdown, Jessup is horrified by his part in Charlie's death. He plans, however, to use the death in support of the Navy's upcoming appropriations while testifying before the Senate's joint military affairs committee. Emily is devastated to have lost another person she loves to the war.

Then comes unexpected news: Charlie is alive and now at the Allied 6th Relocation Center in Southampton, England. A relieved Jessup plans to show him off during his Senate testimony as the "first man on Omaha Beach", a "sailor". Limping from his injury and angry about his senseless near-death, Charlie plans to act nobly by telling the world the truth about what really happened, even if it means being imprisoned for cowardice while facing the enemy. By recounting to him what he had said to her previously, Emily is able to persuade Charlie to choose happiness with her instead, and to keep quiet and accept his new, unwanted role as a hero.

####Amira & Sam####
The film is set in New York City in 2008, prior to the Great Recession. Sam Seneca, a soldier who had served in the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, meets Amira Jafari when he visits her uncle, Bassam Jafari, who had served as Sam's Iraqi translator. Bassam and Sam have a special bond due to their time together in the war.

Initially Amira does not trust him because he was an American soldier and her brother was killed by a bomb from American troops in the war. After getting fired from his job as a security guard for punishing a group of rude people, Sam's cousin, Charlie Seneca, asks Sam to help him with illegal hedge funds unbeknownst to Sam at the time. Amira is staying with her uncle Bassam since her father died.

She sells bootlegged films on the street corner but is forced to flee after getting busted. Bassam calls Sam to inform him of what happened with Amira and asks him to let Amira stay with him. Sam agrees and goes to Amira and Bassam's apartment to get Amira. Amira tells Sam that she cannot go back to Iraq because it became too dangerous for her after her family started helping American soldiers.

Bassam tried to claim her as a dependent but they had trouble with the courts. Therefore, if Amira was arrested, she would be deported to Iraq as an illegal immigrant. Although reluctant at first Amira eventually agrees to go and stay with Sam. Sam and Amira begin spending time together with both learning to enjoy the company of the other and slowly beginning to fall in love.

While at a gathering with Charlie and his friends from work, Sam learns from one of Charlie's friends that Charlie's hedge funds that he has been helping Charlie with may be illegal. He confronts Charlie over it but Charlie denies this is the case. Back at Sam's apartment, Sam and Amira share a bed and Amira reveals that she read Sam's notebook of jokes that he had written when Sam hoped to become a stand up comedian but didn't do so well.

After an exchange of words the two kiss but do not become too intimate. The next day at Charlie's invitation, Sam and Amira attend a party Charlie is having. While at the party Sam only becomes more suspicious of Charlie's hedge funds. Amira meanwhile faces certain degrees of racism, particularly from Sam's Uncle Nick Seneca, who tells Sam that he was in 4 World Trade Center when the September 11 attacks occurred and watched three of his friends die when the Twin Towers were hit with planes.

Not wanting to be involved in Charlie's hedge funds and displeased with the party and guests Sam decides to leave. Charlie tries to stop him which results in a brief scuffle between the two cousins. Amira attempts to intervene but unintentionally hits Charlie's pregnant wife Claire Seneca in the commotion.

Sam and Amira leave the party and head back to Sam's apartment. After sharing a moment of passion, Sam and Amira have sex. The next morning, two police officers arrive and arrest Amira saying that she's being charged with assaulting Claire. Bassam arrives at the police station where Sam is already waiting.

One of the police officers involved in the arrest informs Sam and Bassam that it was revealed that Amira is an illegal immigrant and will be released on bail tomorrow and will be deported back to Iraq the day after. Sam meets with Charlie later where Sam tells him that Amira is being deported. Although Charlie says that he'll have Claire drop the charges Sam tells him it's too late and again asks Charlie about his hedge funds.

Charlie comes clean and confirms that they are illegal but that he's rigged the system so that no one would ever find out about it. Later that night, Amira calls Sam from jail and confesses her love for him and asks to spend one last day together with him.

The next day, Sam comes over to Bassam and Amira's apartment where Bassam says that he is going back to Iraq with Amira to look after her despite Amira's protests. Bassam asks Sam to leave but Amira firmly states that she's spending her last day with Sam.

The two go out and enjoy an entire day of passion. At the end of the day Amira asks Sam to try his luck at stand up comedy  for her. He does so and has good success. On stage Sam confesses his love for Amira and asks her in Arabic to run away together with him. Amira agrees and asks where but Sam says that he doesn't know and doesn't care. The next day, without Sam's help Charlie's hedge funds don't go through and Sam and Amira leave a note for Bassam.

Sam and Amira tell Bassam that they are leaving New York City to be together and avoid Amira's deportation and that they will be in touch as soon as they settle down somewhere else. Bassam smiles happily understanding Sam and Amira's love and knowing that he and Amira will not have to go back to Iraq. Sam and Amira are then seen leaving New York City looking forward to a bright future together.

####And Baby Makes Three####
Jackie Walsh, recently divorced from Vernon Walsh, is told she is pregnant with Vernon's child just as she is preparing to marry another man, Herbert Fletcher.

####And Then Came Love####
Julie (Vanessa Williams), a successful Manhattan reporter-turned-columnist in her mid-40s believes she has it all - a great job, a rent controlled apartment, a boyfriend (Michael Boatman) and best of all, an adorable six-year-old son named Jake, whom she conceived via an anonymous sperm donor.  Her perfect world, however, is rocked when she’s called in for an emergency parent-teacher conference and learns that her son has been acting up, needs to be ‘tested,’ and is on the brink of expulsion.

Overwhelmed, Julie instinctively blames herself easily since her mother (Eartha Kitt) has made her feel inadequate for not being a stay-at-home mom.  Julie, however, will not concede that her mother could be right, so she places genetic blame on Jake’s anonymous father.  Through a private investigator, Julie learns the identity of the donor and meets him – Paul (Kevin Daniels), a struggling actor and law school dropout.

Julie has neither intention nor desire to reveal her identity to him, she simply needs to check her sources, get the facts, and move on.  Jake instantly bonds with Paul, however, and no matter how hard Julie tries to keep Paul from complicating her life, the more he begins to fall for her, and she finds she too is falling badly for him even while her boyfriend is pushing to set a wedding date.

####Andover####
A genetics professor's wife dies in a fire at her glass blowing studio, but he finds her brush with a few of her hairs in it.  He and his grad student assistant make a clone of her, but there are problems.  He keeps trying with slight changes to her environment.  He becomes so obsessed with trying to make the perfect match that he doesn't realize that his assistant has fallen in love with him.  Also, the life insurance adjuster isn't convinced that she really is dead.

The lab assistant then tries to clone the professor so she can have the person she loves, but he is unresponsive to her overtures.  The professor finally is able to make a clone and have it raised by the girl's original parents.  She is identical to his wife, but she says she doesn't love him.  He returns her to her parents.

Meanwhile, the life insurance adjuster accuses the professor of faking his wife's death, and offers to approve the claim on the condition that the professor gives him the $1,000,000 policy payout.  The professor kills the adjuster, then clones him.  He gets the clone drunk, and calls the police on him.  He gets to keep the payout.

The professor and grad student reconnect and realize that they should be together, but they have to deal with the professor and his former wife's clones.  Sure enough, the clones fall in love, and we know they will be as happy as the professor and his wife were.  And we know the professor and his lab assistant will be happy together too.

####Andy Hardy Meets Debutante####
Andy Hardy from Carvel becomes infatuated with a well-known young socialite, Daphne Fowler, from New York City. Even though he hasn’t met the woman in person, he drops her name to his friends and tells them that they are very well acquainted. He even lets his friends believe he is romantically involved with Miss Fowler.

Hardy’s senseless namedropping gets him into trouble when his father, the honorable judge James K. Hardy, decides to move to New York with the whole family, to work on a case involving an orphanage. The judge has to appear in court against a law firm that is disputing payments from a trust fund that supports the orphanage. Andy’s friends, who happen to be editors at a paper, want to print the story about the romantic couple, and Andy is forced to get to know the socialite to avoid embarrassment. He goes off on a pursuit to meet Daphne and become friends with her. In New York, Andy encounters an old female friend, Betsy Booth, who happens to have a crush on him. Soon Andy has to evade romantic propositions from Betsy, while he is trying to meet with the popular and seemingly unattainable Daphne. Against all odds, Andy hears on radio that Daphne is to attend a function at a restaurant. He manages to get into the restaurant where Daphne is present, but he gets into trouble when he can’t live up to his own story about being a wealthy man, not being able to pay his bill. Things look dark for Andy, but his father goes from despair to success when he wins the orphanage case. Andy is inspired by his father’s successful litigation, and in a moment of honesty, he tells his friend Betsy about his situation. It turns out Betsy is friends with Daphne, and she agrees to introduce Andy to her. Thus, Andy avoids all embarrassment when the article about him and Daphne is published. In the end, Andy finds the high society life too expensive, and realizes that Betsy is the one for him. They have their first kiss, and they promise to write to each other regularly.

####Andy Hardy's Blonde Trouble####
"Blonde Trouble" picks up from the previous installment of the Andy Hardy saga with Andy on a train to begin his college career at Wainwright College. While on the train, he meets Kay Wilson (Bonita Granville), and learns that Wainright College has just become a coeducational institution. The Dean of Wainwright College (and soon to be Andy's faculty advisor), Dr. Standish (Herbert Marshall) is also on the train. Dr. Standish's identity is not revealed to Andy until later.

Problems begin almost immediately for Andy as he learns his father forgot to give him his train ticket. Lyn and Lee  Walker (Wilde Twins) are also on the train in a private cabin. They are on their way to Wainright College as well, but their father thinks Lee is on her way to spend some time with her aunt in Vermont. The twins can't handle the idea of being separated, so they travel together to Wainright College in hopes of passing themselves off as one girl. On the train, and later at Wainwright, the girls pull the switcheroo on Andy, leaving him completely confused with this mysterious blonde's ever changing behavior.

After discovering that they have run out of money, the twins coax Andy into giving them a total of $37.95 cash before he realizes that he has been fooled. After classes at Wainwright College begin, Andy's troubles continue to build, causing him to consider quitting college. Before this happens, though, he manages to help the twins out of their trouble.

####Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging####
Fourteen-year-old Georgia lives in Eastbourne with her parents Connie and Bob and little sister Libby. She is insecure about her appearance and fears she will never have a boyfriend. On the first day of the new school term, Georgia and her friends Jas, Ellen and Rosie spot fraternal twin brothers Robbie and Tom, who have recently moved to Eastbourne from London.

Georgia and Jas decide to approach the brothers in their mother's organic foodshop, where they work. Jas is quickly enamored with Tom and Georgia strikes up a conversation with Robbie. However, they soon discover that Robbie is dating Lindsay, the most popular girl in school. After learning that Robbie likes cats, Georgia pretends that her cat Angus has gone missing and asks Robbie for help finding him. Jas has Angus on a leash in the park, but he escapes and Tom rescues him just as Georgia and Robbie arrive. Robbie leaves to spend time with Lindsay and Tom asks Jas on a date, after which they become a couple.

Bob moves to New Zealand for a job, while the rest of the family stays in England. During his absence, Connie hires a handsome builder, Jem, to redo the living room, and begins to spend increasingly longer periods of time with him, prompting Georgia to worry about the state of her parents' marriage.

In an attempt to impress Robbie, Georgia takes "snogging lessons" with Peter Dyer, who becomes infatuated with her. When Peter tries to kiss her at a party, he ends up embarrassing her in front of Robbie, Lindsay, Jas and Tom with her purple dress being around her waist revealing her white underwear. Lindsay mocks Georgia's underwear as Robbie & Tom assume Peter and Georgia are a couple which upsets Georgia. In order to evade Peter, Georgia lies to him about being a lesbian. When Tom invites Jas to go swimming with him and Robbie, Georgia tags along. While in the pool, Robbie and Georgia kiss. Robbie then leaves but promises to call Georgia later.

After not hearing from Robbie in a while, Georgia is heartbroken. She decides to make Robbie jealous so that he realises his feelings for her. She invites Robbie's best friend, Dave, to a concert by Robbie's band, the Stiff Dylans. Upon seeing Georgia and Dave dancing and laughing, Robbie tries to talk to her but is stopped by Lindsay.

At school, Dave confronts Georgia about using him to make Robbie jealous. Upon learning what Georgia did to Dave, Robbie severs ties with her. Georgia discovers it was Jas that accidentally leaked this information. After Georgia kicks Jas in the shin during an argument, they vow never to speak to each other again. Shortly afterwards, Robbie tells Georgia he was considering breaking up with Lindsay before becoming involved with her, but now he is disappointed with her recent behaviour.

Devastated, Georgia decides that she would like to move to New Zealand. She stops by her father's workplace and breaks down in tears with a woman who works with him, telling her she does not want her family to be apart from each other. She later goes to the beach, knowing Robbie would be there, and apologises to him. Robbie reveals he ended things with Lindsay and admits he still likes Georgia.

On Georgia's 15th birthday, Connie takes her to a nightclub for the first time. The place initially seems empty, but Georgia's friends and family soon show up to reveal a surprise birthday party, which Jas secretly organised with Connie. Georgia and Jas make amends. Bob returns from New Zealand, deciding to stay in Eastbourne for a better job opportunity, after his boss told him about Georgia's breakdown. It is also revealed that Jem is gay and his boyfriend owns the club. The Stiff Dylans are performing the song "Ultraviolet", which Robbie wrote about Georgia, when they are interrupted by Lindsay, who arrives from her own party (which no one attended) and demands that Robbie choose between her and Georgia. He chooses Georgia, kissing her onstage. Jas pulls out Lindsay's breast pads and tosses them into the crowd, prompting a furious Lindsay to storm off.

Ultimately, Georgia is content with her eccentric family and realises she does not need to change her appearance, as her boyfriend Robbie likes her the way she is.

####Annabelle's Affairs####
After they are separated shortly after their marriage, Annabelle doesn't really know what her husband looks like. When they meet later she finds herself falling in love with him, without realizing that they are already married.

####Another Cinderella Story####
Mary Santiago, a high school senior aspiring to become a dancer, was adopted by washed-up pop star Dominique Blatt, because her deceased mother was one of Dominique's dancers. At home, Dominique and her snobby daughters Britt and Bree treat Mary as a slave. While in school, Mary and her best friend Tami are bullied by Britt, Bree, and Joey Parker's ex-girlfriend, Natalia Faroush. Joey Parker, a famous celebrity and pop star, has returned to school for his senior year and to remember why he started dancing, accompanied by his best friend, Dustin/The Funk. He is also hosting a dance contest where the winner will be his partner in his next music video. It is revealed that Natalia is determined to get back together with him.

Joey hosts a dance class that Natalia, Britt, and Bree attend. Mary sneaks behind the one-way mirror and is the only one able to match his moves, but her cell phone rings and she flees. Later, Dominique, hoping to revitalize her career, asks Joey to perform a duet with her while Britt and Bree hit on him, but he refuses and brings up a time Dominique insulted him on TRL.

The school holds a masquerade ball on Valentine's Day, but Dominique plans to go partying and orders Mary to clean her room by midnight. Fortunately, Tami contacts her sister's boyfriend's family, who owns a cleaning service; and offers to help. Tami provides them with outfits for the ball. Joey and Mary stun everyone with their skills, but Britt and Bree spill a bowl of M&M's and Mary falls. Joey helps Mary up and takes his mask off, shocking her. Mary notices a clock and realizes she has fifteen minutes before Dominique arrives. She accidentally drops her Zune, but returns home just in time.

The next day, Joey announces to the school that he has the Zune, saying whoever can announce the top four most played songs is the mystery girl. A bunch of girls (and a few boys) get in line and try to do it, obviously failing. Britt and Bree conclude Mary is the mystery girl and threatens to release an embarrassing video she made when she was eleven, if she tries to tell Joey. Tami convinces her not to care about that, and she tries to tell him, but he blows her off.

At Britt and Bree's birthday party, Dustin recognizes Tami as his dance partner and flirts with her having proved his identity. Mary tries to tell Joey again, but Britt and Bree play the video. Embarrassed, Mary runs to her room. She plays the song from the ball. Joey realizes she was the mystery girl and asks her on a date. Later, Mary receives a letter saying she has been accepted by the Manhattan Academy of Performing Arts, but when the academy calls to confirm it, Dominique answers and claims Mary has "two broken legs".

Attempting to stop the date, Britt and Bree give Mary a ridiculous number of chores, but this backfires when Joey helps her by dancing through them. She helps him write his next song. He "invites" her to his house, but when she arrives, she sees through the window, Natalia talking to Joey in bed and runs off in tears. Dominique insincerely comforts her and claims the academy rejected her.

Joey is confused when she gives him the cold shoulder. Dustin confronts Tami, who berates Joey for cheating on Mary. They clarify Natalia broke into his house to drive Mary away. Tami agrees to help them. The dance contest is near, and Tami and Dustin convince a still bitter Mary to attend. A Manhattan Academy representative is there at Joey's invitation. After Britt, Bree, and Natalia put on lackluster performances, Joey calls Mary to the stage and convinces her to dance with him. The duo performs the song they wrote. Joey admits that there's nothing going on between him and Natalia. Mary wins the contest and Natalia admits Mary did great. The representative reveals Dominique's lie and says Mary is accepted. Joey and Mary kiss. Dominique tries to leave the stage and falls, ironically breaking both of her legs.

As Mary, Joey, Tami, and Dustin load Mary's belongings in a van, a wheelchair-using Dominique begs her not to go as Joey and Mary share another kiss and drive away.

####Another Gay Movie####
The story centers around four gay friends who have recently graduated from San Torum High School. Andy (Michael Carbonaro) is an awkward, sex-crazed character who frequently masturbates with his mother's fruits and vegetables. Jarod (Jonathan Chase) is a handsome and fit jock who is quite insecure. Griff (Mitch Morris) is a nerdy, well-dressed guy who is secretly in love with Jarod. Nico (Jonah Blechman) is the most flamboyant, outgoing, and effeminate of the group. The four of them decide to make a pact to have sex by the end of the summer. Each boy proceeds to pursue sex in different ways, with both tragic and comedic results. Nico tries to secure an online date with a man named Ryder (Matthew Rush), but ends up with the grandfather (George Marcy) of their lesbian friend Muffler. Jarod seeks out fellow jocks, including a baseball pitcher named Beau (James Getzlaff), while Griff tries to earn the affection of Angel (Darryl Stephens), a male stripper; Jarod and Griff leave these men to have sex with each other instead, because they are in love. Andy, having failed to seduce his long-time crush, his math teacher, Mr. Puckov (Graham Norton), has a threesome with the rejected Beau and Angel. Much of the humor comes from how awkward each boy is at romance and how naive they are about sex. Each plot backfires horribly, until the boys finally begin to change their attitudes towards sex at the end of the film.

####Another Gay Sequel: Gays Gone Wild!####
Dorky Andy (Jake Mosser), flamboyant Nico (Jonah Blechman), jock Jarod (Jimmy Clabots), and nerdy Griff (Aaron Michael Davies) reunite in Fort Lauderdale for spring break. The plot revolves around a contest—"Gays Gone Wild!"—to see who can have sex with the most guys during the duration of spring break. The winner will be crowned "Miss Gay Gone Wild".

While Andy seems to have no problem getting men to have sex with him, Nico has not been attracting men at all. He has a frequent fantasy sequence involving a merman (Brent Corrigan). Andy is troubled, however, when he falls hard for Luis (Euriamis Losada), a charming, handsome virgin. Jarod and Griff are also having problems, as they have become a couple, and are conflicted over whether to enter the contest. Meanwhile, a trio by the name of Jasper (Will Wikle, Brand Lim, and Isaac Webster) seem to be eager to win the contest by any means.

In a subplot, the guys meet Perez Hilton on an airplane. Hilton pursues a young priest to the bathroom; he hits his head and becomes a religious zealot trying to suppress the gay activities. He is later hit in the head again and changes back.

####The Answer Man####
Reclusive author Arlen Faber wrote a best-selling spiritual book, "Me and God", but rejects the celebrity it has brought him and lives anonymously in Philadelphia. He jealously guards his identity and refuses to cooperate with his publisher, who wishes him to help publicize the 20th anniversary of the book's release. However, his identity is gradually revealed to a mail carrier, bookstore owner Kris, and chiropractor Elizabeth.

Arlen is reluctantly drawn into relationships with Kris and Elizabeth--each of whom has their own problems. Kris is an alcoholic who is just out of rehab and who is troubled by the impending failure of his bookstore and his father's persistent alcoholism. Elizabeth and her seven-year-old son were abandoned by her husband, causing her to be overprotective of the boy. She has moved to Philadelphia to open a chiropractic clinic and start her life anew.

A back injury causes Arlen to crawl to the clinic for help. Elizabeth fixes his back problem and the two of them begin awkwardly dating. She is reticent to become involved because of her concern for her son and having been left by her husband. He is an emotional mess, largely because of the death of his father from Alzheimer's. Despite writing a spiritual book about conversations with God, he is spiritually adrift and seeks answers to difficult questions. He charms her, but he also says inappropriate, abrasive things that almost doom the relationship.

Kris and Arlen make a deal where they trade books for answers to questions. Each day, Arlen gives books to Kris to sell and allows him to ask him a single question about spiritual matters.

Arlen's newfound relationships come to a crisis when Kris's father dies and he shows up at Arlen's house for solace while Elizabeth is there. She comforts Kris, but Arlen is emotionally blocked and unable to provide sympathy, which appalls Elizabeth.

The crisis impels Arlen to change. He arranges to have his book's new release held at Kris's bookstore--seemingly saving it from bankruptcy. At the book's release, he reveals the impact of his father's death to both Elizabeth and fans of his book. He tells them that he does not speak with God, that he had many questions after his father's death and did his best to come up with some answers. Elizabeth is touched by Arlen's revelation, but she still does not trust him and runs from the bookstore. Arlen pursues her and they have an emotional reconnection. They agree to make a new attempt at a relationship and are last seen walking down the sidewalk together.

####Any Wednesday####
John Cleves (Jason Robards) is a businessman with an office in New York and a home in New Jersey. On one day of each week, Wednesday, he spends the night in the city, lying to wife Dorothy (Rosemary Murphy) that he is out of town on business when he actually is seeing Ellen, his mistress (Jane Fonda).

A business client from Akron, Ohio, Cass Henderson (Dean Jones), comes to town and is unable to find a hotel room for the night. Cleves' new secretary knows of an "executive suite" the boss maintains in town, so Cass is sent there for the night. When he meets Ellen, he mistakenly assumes she is a certain kind of lady hired by Cleves to entertain him.

The secretary compounds the error by telling Dorothy about the apartment. Dorothy goes there and discovers Ellen and Cass, assuming them to be a young couple. The women take a liking to each other so Dorothy invites them to spend an evening out on the town with her and John.

Dorothy eventually catches on to what her husband is up to and leaves him. Ellen invites her to use the apartment. John goes there and tries to win his wife's love back, but she just tells her husband to come visit her on any Wednesday.

####Anything Else####
Jerry Falk (Biggs), an aspiring writer living in New York City, has a girlfriend, Brooke (Strickland). He falls in love with Amanda (Ricci) and has an affair with her. Brooke learns of Jerry's infidelity and leaves him. Amanda leaves her own boyfriend for Jerry. Jerry turns to aging, struggling artist David Dobel (Allen, loosely based on David Panich) who acts as his mentor, which includes trying to help sort out Jerry's romantic life. Dobel says that when he told a cab driver of all his anxieties and phobias in life, the cab driver told him, "It's like anything else".

Dobel tries to convince Jerry that his manager is only holding him back and his relationship with Amanda is the most destructive force in his life. Amanda continuously cheats on Jerry. Amanda leaves and then comes back. Jerry's neuroses start to worsen. Eventually, Jerry leaves town as Dobel gets him a job writing for television in California. Amanda has an affair with the doctor who was treating her and runs off with him. He sees them together laughing as she once did with him as the cab is taking him towards the airport. Jerry talks to the cabbie of love and relationships. The cabbie simply replies, "It's like anything else".

####Anything's Possible####
When Khal develops a crush on his high school classmate Kelsa, a confident girl who happens to be trans, he musters up the courage to ask her out and a romance ensues.

####April Fool####
The film concern about a worker struggling to make ends meet in a Jewish neighborhood in the city, his daughter, his love interest, and his daughter's prankster friend.

The main character loses his job pressing clothes in a tailor sweatshop and resorts to selling used umbrellas. His love interest is a widow who runs a deli where his daughter is looked after.

####April in Paris####
Winthrop Putnam is the Assistant Secretary to the Assistant to the Undersecretary of State, and was formerly Assistant Assistant Secretary to the Assistant to the Undersecretary of State. Winthrop tells a Frenchman, Philippe Farquotte that owes back taxes, but Philippe is not allowed any help from his friends to get back home to Paris. Philippe ends up becoming an employee aboard a ship. Winthrop jumps onboard to give Ethel Jackson mistaken for Ethel Barrymore unhappy information that is was inadvertently told that she was to represent the American theatre at an art exposition in Paris. Instead, the invitation is received and accepted by Ethel "Dynamite" Jackson, an All-American Broadway chorus girl. Ethel and Winthrop meet on the way to Paris and fall in love. However, Winthrop is engages to Marcia Sherman, daughter of his boss Secretary Robert Sherman. After a misunderstanding, Winthrop and Ethel ultimately end up together.

####Arise, My Love####
American pilot Tom Martin (Ray Milland) is a soldier of fortune who went to Spain to fight in the Spanish Civil War. During the summer of 1939, he is languishing in a prison cell while awaiting execution. Unexpectedly granted a pardon on the morning that he is to face a firing squad, Tom's release has been managed by reporter Augusta "Gusto" Nash (Claudette Colbert), who posed as his wife. When the prison governor learns of the deception, the pair has to run for their lives.

Ending up in Paris, Tom tries, without success, to woo Gusto. When she is sent to Berlin as a correspondent, Tom pursues her with both of them again on the run as Hitler invades Poland. Booking passage on the ill-fated SS|Athenia|1922|6, the ship is torpedoed by a German submarine. After their rescue, Tom joins the RAF while Gusto remains in France as a war correspondent. At the fall of Paris, Tom is reunited with Gusto, and both decide to return home to convince Americans that a real danger awaits.

####The Aristocats####
In 1910, mother cat Duchess and her three kittens (Berlioz, Marie, and Toulouse) live in Paris with retired opera diva Madame Adelaide Bonfamille, and her English butler, Edgar. The cats are pampered pets that live a luxurious lifestyle, and are very cultured in art and music like their owner.

One day, while preparing her will with elderly lawyer Georges Hautecourt, Madame declares that her vast fortune will be first left to her cats, then revert to Edgar once they all pass away. Edgar overhears this through a speaking tube and, after erroneously calculating that he will die before he can inherit, plots to eliminate the cats. He sedates them by putting sleeping pills in a dish of cream, then drives them on his motorcycle out to the countryside in a basket. There, he is ambushed by two hounds named Napoleon and Lafayette, losing his hat, sidecar, umbrella, shoes, and the basket before escaping. The cats are left stranded in the countryside, while Madame Adelaide, Roquefort the mouse, and Frou-Frou the horse discover their absence.

In the morning, Duchess meets an alley cat named Thomas O'Malley, who offers to guide her and the kittens to Paris. The group briefly hitchhikes in a milk truck before being chased out by the driver. Later, while crossing a railroad trestle, the cats narrowly avoid an oncoming train, and Marie falls into a river. O'Malley immediately dives in and rescues her, and is himself rescued by Amelia and Abigail Gabble, two British geese on holiday. The geese lead the cats to the outskirts of Paris, then depart to deal with their inebriated Uncle Waldo. Meanwhile, Edgar returns to the countryside to retrieve his possessions—the only evidence that can incriminate him—from Napoleon and Lafayette and, after some difficulty, ultimately succeeds.

Traveling across the rooftops of the city, the cats meet up with O'Malley's friend Scat Cat and his musicians, who perform the song "Ev'rybody Wants to Be a Cat". After the band has departed, O'Malley and Duchess converse on a nearby rooftop while the kittens listen at a windowsill. Duchess' loyalty to Madame prompts her to decline O'Malley's marriage proposal. The next day, Duchess and the kittens return to Madame's mansion. Edgar finds them before Madame does, and places them in a sack, deciding to ship them to Timbuktu.

Roquefort catches up with O'Malley at Duchess’ instruction, and O'Malley returns to the mansion, sending Roquefort to find Scat Cat and his gang. Though he struggles to explain the situation to the alley cats, Roquefort successfully brings them to O'Malley's aid. O'Malley, the alley cats, and Frou-Frou fight Edgar, while Roquefort frees Duchess and the kittens. At the end of the fight, Edgar is locked in his own packing-case and sent to Timbuktu himself, never to be seen again.

The Aristocats return to Madame Adelaide, who, ignorant of the real reason for Edgar's departure, rewrites her will to exclude him. After adopting O'Malley into the family, Madame establishes a charity foundation, housing Paris' stray cats in the mansion. Scat Cat and his gang are the first to move in, and reprise their song so loudly that the two hound dogs can hear it out in the countryside.

####Artists and Models####
Rick Todd is a struggling painter and smooth-talking ladies' man. His goofy young roommate Eugene Fullstack is an aspiring children's author who has a passion for comic books, especially those of the mysterious and sexy "Bat Lady".

Each night, Eugene has horrific screaming nightmares inspired by those ultra-violent comics, which he describes aloud in his sleep. They are about the bizarre bird-like superhero "Vincent the Vulture" who is, according to Eugene's nocturnal babblings, the "defender of truth and liberty and a member of the Audubon Society" and is "half-boy, half-man, half-bird with feathers growing out of every pore" and a "tail full of jet propulsion". Also known as "Vultureman" or more simply "The Vulture", the golden helmeted hero soars through space from his "homogenized space station" orbiting the Milky Way to battle his shapely but sadistic purple-eyed archenemy "Zuba the Magnificent", who hates Vincent because "she's allergic to his feathers" and who enjoys blasting big "oooozing" holes into his highly resilient flying form ("It'll take more than that to stop me!") with her "atomic pivot gun".

A neighbor in their apartment building, Abigail Parker, is a professional artist who works for a New York comic book company called Murdock Publishing and is the creator of the "Bat Lady". Her energetic horoscope-obsessed roommate is Bessie Sparrowbush, who is secretary to her publisher Mr. Murdock and Abigail's model for the flying bat-masked superheroine. Bessie develops a crush on Eugene, who is unaware that she is his beloved "Bat Lady" in the flesh.

Abigail becomes frustrated at work at the increasingly lurid and bloodthirsty stories the money-hungry Murdock demands. She quits to become an anti-comics activist, dragging Eugene into her crusade as an example of how trashy comic books can warp impressionable minds at the same time that Rick gets a job with the company after pitching the adventures of "Vincent the Vulture" from Eugene's dreams. Rick attains success at his new job, but after falling for Abigail he keeps his work a secret from both her and Eugene.

Unbeknownst to all, Eugene's dreams also contain the real top-secret rocket formula "X34 minus 5R1 plus 6-X36" that Rick publishes in his stories. With spies all around them, they manage to entertain at the annual "Artists and Models Ball" and capture the enemy, preserving national security.

####Artists and Models Abroad####
The story starts off with Joan Bennett playing Patricia Harper, the heiress daughter of a billionaire oil tycoon, James Harper, having dinner with Mrs. Isabel Channing and Elliott Winthrop, whom Mrs. Channing wants Patricia to marry.  Caught up in Mrs. Channing's need to behave ‘proper’ Patricia expresses her wish to live a normal life and enjoy simple mundane things.  Elliott announces his promotion as U.S. ambassador to France.  He is then called away to the consulate to handle a problem at the gate.

This is where Elliott meets the American dance troupe, led by Buck Boswell (Jack Benny), asking for an emergency fare back to the U.S.  Elliott declares that there is no such contingency in the budget for such an occasion (or else no one would buy a return flight home) and wishes them luck before, presumably, returning to dinner.  Buck then promises the troupe that he'll get them back and brings them to an expensive hotel on the premise that they don't have the money to pay for it regardless so they might as well live it up.

Upon their arrival, Buck and The Yacht Club Boys (named Swifty, Dopey, Jimmy, and Kelly in the film) convince the owner of the hotel that they have money and are used to paying at the end of their stay instead of the beginning.  The owner, mesmerized by the thought that all Americans have money, allows them to move into their rooms, against the will of his wife.

However the next day, while the troupe is practising their cowboy & Indians routine, the hotel owner's wife locks them out of their rooms, and in order for their rooms to be unlocked she insists that they pay their bill.  To get their belongings back, the girls push the guys to go out and find jobs.  Buck receives 5 francs from one of the girls, the last 5 francs to the name of any troupe member.

Walking down the street, Buck is called on by Patricia Harper, who recognizes him as American by his cowboy outfit.  She tells him that she has left her money in her hotel room and asks him to cover the 3 franc bill for her breakfast, which he does.  Then, thinking she's a scammer who also has not a penny to her name, he invites her to act with his troupe.  Seeking adventure as a normal person, Patricia keeps her wealth a secret and plays along.

They go back to the hotel, and Patricia pretends to be suicidal to lure the staff to the roof, so the troupe can grab the keys to get their belongings from their rooms.  After this, the staff wises up and calls the police on the troupe, joined by Patricia's’ father, who found her after she let Mrs. Channing know she wasn't coming home.  The troupe is now forced to climb through the window and climb to another building, in order to escape the police.

Still running from the police, they manage to hide out in an old studio full of mannequins that they think is abandoned.  After evading the police by posing as mannequins, they decide to spend the night.  Upon waking up, they hear people talking.  Thinking it's the police, they prepare to run.  Overhearing a producer's conversation, Buck realizes that it's a theater that's putting on a show.  Buck runs into another troupe from Russia, that then thinks he is the producer.  He turns them away, and his troupe takes the Russians' place.

After rehearsals, Patricia's father sees the royal jewels in a case and asks if he can buy them, not realizing what they are.  After being declined he steals them before the troupe leaves.  This leads to a mad hunt for the jewel thieves.

Patricia's father has a copy of the jewels made for Patricia, as a present.  The jewels get mixed up when Patricia's father shows them to Ms. Channing.

Buck is back at Patricia's father's hotel, where he planned on gifting the replica necklace to her.  He hides it, but Buck finds it while snooping around, suspicious of her father.  There is a knock on the door, and a mad scramble to leave the hotel room.  While this is going on, Buck stays behind and is introduced to a man while the troupe is running away because they think it's the police still after them.  The man turns out to be an oil magnate to whom Patricia's father plans to sell his oil, and Buck, thinking that the old man is running a scam on the oil magnate, rips up the contract.

Buck then becomes wise and tells the troupe that he'll get them home by returning the jewels, so that either the French will be grateful and give them the fare home, or will think they stole it and deport them.  The French lock him and the troupe up, but upon realizing the jewels were a replica, they let Buck go, and send people to follow him.

Buck goes to confront Patricia and her father, who are out at dinner with Elliot and Ms. Channing.  There is a struggle, and the jewels get stuck on the roof.  After retrieving them, they are all arrested.  Back at the police station, everyone's real identity is revealed.  Everyone is released, and Buck & Patricia get married.

####As Good as It Gets####
Misanthropic New York City best-selling romance novelist Melvin Udall has obsessive–compulsive disorder; he uses soap bars to wash his hands only once, dislikes touching pets, avoids stepping on sidewalk cracks while walking through the city, and eats his breakfast at the same table in the same restaurant. He takes an interest in his waitress, Carol Connelly, the only server at the restaurant who can tolerate his odd behavior.

One day, Melvin's apartment neighbor, gay artist Simon Bishop, is assaulted and nearly killed during a robbery, in which one of the robbers, all of whom are homosexuals, mistakenly believing that Simon is sexually attracted to him, gets totally naked, but then Simon tells him that the portrait of him will not be a nude. Simon's agent, Frank Sachs, intimidates Melvin into caring for Simon's Griffon Bruxellois, Verdell, while he is hospitalized. Although he initially does not enjoy caring for the dog, Melvin becomes emotionally attached to it, simultaneously receiving more attention from Carol. When Simon is released from the hospital, Melvin is unable to emotionally cope with returning the dog. Melvin's life is further altered when Carol decides to work closer to her home in Brooklyn so she can care for her acutely asthmatic son Spencer. Unable to adjust to a different waitress, Melvin arranges through his publisher (whose husband is a doctor) to pay for her son's considerable medical expenses as long as Carol agrees to return to work. She is overwhelmed but doubts his generosity.

Meanwhile, Simon's assault and rehabilitation, coupled with Verdell's preference for Melvin, causes Simon to lose his creative muse and fall into a depression. With no medical insurance, he is approaching bankruptcy due to his medical bills. Frank persuades him to go to Baltimore to ask his estranged parents (who disinherited him for being homosexual) for money. Because Frank is too busy to take the injured Simon to Baltimore himself, Melvin reluctantly agrees to do so; Frank lends Melvin the use of his Saab 900 convertible for the trip. Melvin invites Carol to accompany them on the trip to lessen the awkwardness. She reluctantly accepts, and relationships among the three develop.

Once in Baltimore, Carol persuades Melvin to take her out for dinner. Melvin's comments during the dinner greatly flatter—and subsequently upset—Carol, and she abruptly leaves. Upon seeing her, frustrated, Simon begins to sketch her, semi-nude, in his hotel room, which rekindles his creativity, and he once more feels a desire to paint. He briefly reconnects with his mother, and is able to tell her that he will be fine.

After returning to New York, Carol tells Melvin that she does not want him in her life anymore, but later regrets her statement and calls to apologize. The relationship between Melvin and Carol remains complicated, until Simon (whom Melvin has generously allowed to move in with him, as his apartment has been sublet) persuades Melvin to declare his love for her. Melvin goes to see Carol, who hesitantly agrees to try and establish a relationship with him. The film ends with Melvin and Carol walking together. As he opens the door at an early morning pastry shop for Carol, he realizes that he has stepped on a crack in the pavement, but does not seem to mind.

####Ask Any Girl####
A wide-eyed Meg Wheeler comes to New York City and takes a job in market research for a large firm. She's also keeping an eye open to meet the right man, her research making her aware that the United States has five million more females than males.

Upon meeting two clients, the reserved and somewhat stodgy Miles Doughton and his playboy younger brother Evan, it doesn't take long for Meg to realize she's romantically interested in Evan.

Miles is willing to help. He has seen so many of his brother's conquests come and go that he knows what Evan likes in a girl. Therefore, in a Pygmalion-like way, he sets out to transform Meg into exactly that kind of girl. What she doesn't yet know is that Miles secretly comes to want her for himself.

####At Long Last Love####
New York, 1935. Broadway star Kitty O'Kelly fights with and gets dumped by her boyfriend at her penthouse apartment after having too much to drink ("Down In The Depths"). Italian gambler Johnny Spanish wins a poker game and returns to his shabby downtown apartment ("Tomorrow"). Spoiled heiress Brooke Carter returns to her hotel suite after a night out, only to be given an official notice by her maid Elizabeth, saying that they will be evicted unless she settles the bill ("Which?"). Playboy millionaire Michael Oliver Pritchard III drives home with his chauffeur and valet Rodney James after being bored with partying all night long ("Poor Young Millionaire"). The hungover Kitty runs out on a road and hails Michael's limousine, mistaking it for a taxi. Rodney manages to avoid her, but he still causes a minor accident. Michael and Kitty start chatting and take an instant liking to each other.

Brooke and Elizabeth go to the race track in order to raise money for the hotel bill by betting on horses. They run into Johnny, whom Brooke dislikes. Brooke bets her last $300 on the same race as Johnny. Johnny's horse wins while Brooke's comes dead last. After the race, Johnny offers Brooke and Elizabeth a lift in his car. Elizabeth declines, but nudges Brooke to accept the offer. Kitty and Michael, increasingly smitten, drink champagne at his apartment, while Brooke and Johnny go for a car ride. Brooke finds herself warming to Johnny and confesses that she has not heard from her mother, who sends her money from her fortune, in three months. Johnny offers to settle her hotel bill, which Brooke gladly accepts ("You're the Top").

Michael and Rodney go to see Kitty's musical and wind up sitting next to Brooke and Johnny. As the show begins Brooke recognizes Kitty as her former schoolmate Kathy Krumm ("Find Me a Primitive Man"). Afterwards Michael, Brooke, and Johnny visit Kitty backstage and the two girls reunite. The four of them go to the nightclub and Michael invites them to his country house for the weekend. On the way, they pick up Elizabeth who finds herself immediately attracted to Rodney, much to his annoyance. Then they stop at Johnny's place and Brooke is disappointed to find he's living in a poor apartment building. Kitty and Michael manage to bring them back to a good mood ("Friendship").

The next morning, Rodney and Elizabeth fix breakfast for their employers while recovering from a drinking binge which resulted with another car crash at the country house doorway. She tries to seduce him, to no avail ("But in the Morning, No"). Johnny apologizes to Brooke for lying to her and promises he'll make a fortune soon. When she remains mad at him, he goes for a walk around the grounds. He runs into Kitty and flirts with her. Michael squirts shaving alcohol in his eye and accidentally bursts into Brooke's bedroom. They are slightly embarrassed, but amused by seeing each other half dressed ("At Long Last Love").

Later, the foursome play football when Michael's mother Mabel comes to visit. She invites them to a dance party at the Racquet Club and they reluctantly accept the invitation. The club consists of uptight senior citizens which causes bored Michael, Brooke, Johnny and Kitty to play tricks on the guests. Brooke and Michael sneak out to the back yard, but they are noticed by Kitty and Johnny who quietly leave the party ("Well, Did You Evah!"). Mabel interrupts Brooke and Michael to tell them that Kitty and Johnny went back to the city.

While sharing a taxi with Kitty, Johnny comes up with a scheme to make Brooke and Michael jealous by following them around and pose as a couple in front of them. She agrees to do it as a stunt, but eventually they spend a night at her place ("From Alpha to Omega"). Brooke and Michael return to his country house and she openly tries to seduce him, which she succeeds ("Let's Misbehave"/"It's De-Lovely"). Elizabeth does the same with Rodney by barging into his bedroom and forcing herself on him ("But in the Morning, No").

Kitty and Johnny make out in front of Brooke and Michael at a baseball game and a boxing match, but they try to ignore them. Michael is struck by their relationship, though Brooke is unperturbed. Finally, at a movie theatre, Michael fights with Johnny in the men's room. They make up immediately afterward. Consequently, Michael breaks up with Brooke, and Johnny breaks up with Kitty ("Just One of Those Things").

Brooke stays in her suite for days and doesn't return Johnny's calls, who in the meantime has won $500,000 in a card game. Kitty avoids Michael, who buys a horse called Kathy-O. Brooke reads about the purchase in the paper and mourns her lost relationship ("I Get a Kick out of You"). Brooke's mother sends a telegram informing Brooke that she has deposited $1,000,000 in her account. Elizabeth persuades Brooke to go shopping. Kitty and Brooke accidentally meet in the powder room of the Lord & Taylor store and tearfully forgive to each other. Along with Elizabeth, they state their disenchantment with men ("Most Gentlemen Don’t Like Love"). Kitty and Brooke make plans to go dancing in the evening before leaving for a walk. Elizabeth phones Rodney and hatches a plan with him.

Walking in the park, Kitty complains of her unrequited love for Johnny, and Brooke of hers for Michael ("I Loved Him, But He Didn’t Love Me"). Rodney, Michael, and Johnny arrive at the club. Rodney dances with Elizabeth, finally reciprocating her affection. Michael and Johnny take to the dance floor and attempt to rekindle their relationships with Kitty and Brooke, respectively. The two couples make up at the dance floor ("A Picture of Me Without You"). The bandleader asks the dancers to change partners and they do. Dancing with Kitty, Johnny observes that Brooke has never been more lovely. Michael, dancing with Brooke, notes that Kitty has never been more beautiful.

####At Middleton####
Edith Martin and her highly strung daughter Audrey, and George Hartman and his unmotivated son Conrad, arrive for a campus tour of the quaint Middleton College led by junior "dingleberry" Justin. When Edith and George wander off, the two bond as they try to reunite with the tour. When they meet the group in the library, Edith and George embarrass their children.

Audrey accuses Edith of not supporting her decision to go to Middleton, and as revenge, Edith lies and says that she and George are taking an exclusive tour of the campus with the university's Dean. Audrey and Conrad are then left alone with the rest of the "cookie cutter" tour, while Edith and George play hooky. The two borrow some bikes to explore the campus. They climb to the top of the belltower, and sneak into an acting class. During an acting exercise, the two emotionally connect.

Meanwhile, Audrey tells Conrad that the reason she wants to attend Middleton is so she can be mentored by Middleton's acclaimed professor Roland Emerson. Conrad says he's keeping his options open. At lunch, Audrey calls the Dean's assistant, and finds out that Edith was lying about the exclusive tour. She then bumps into George and demands to know where her mother is. He tells her that Edith went to the observatory, when she is really having lunch with George in the cafeteria. Edith and George discuss their relationship, unsure of what it is since they are both married.

Audrey and Conrad go to the observatory, finding it locked. In her anger, Audrey insults Conrad, saying he's peaked in life and it's all downhill for him; Conrad walks off. George and Edith then meet film student Daphne, who offers George her computer so he can help out a heart patient. Edith and George then get high with Daphne and her boyfriend Travis, and discuss their relationships with their children.

Audrey and Conrad go to their respective meetings with professors. Audrey has tea with Emerson, while Conrad meets Boneyard Sims, who runs the campus' radio station. Audrey finds out that Emerson is going on a sabbatical, meaning he won't be able to be her advisor should she attend Middleton. Audrey reacts angrily, and Emerson warns her that she might've crossed the line from ambition into obsession. Conrad realizes his interest is in radio.

Edith and George go back to the belltower, where they spend an intimate moment. Conrad apologizes to Audrey for her bad day, and informs her that he could see himself going to Middleton; Audrey tells him she no longer wants to go there. As Edith and George head back to their cars, they emotionally part ways. The two then embrace their children and drive off. Edith tells Audrey that they're going to be okay, and George requests Conrad take the long way home.

####Athena####
Conservative lawyer Adam Calhorn Shaw (Edmund Purdom) hopes to be elected to office, like his father, and his father's father. He is engaged to a sophisticated society lady, Beth Hallson (Linda Christian).

Arriving at a nursery to complain about the peach trees he had purchased, Adam meets the energetic and eccentric Athena Mulvain (Jane Powell), the oldest of seven sisters in a family of anti-smoking, vegetarian, teetotallers who follow astrology and numerology.

Athena offers to give him advice on how to mulch the peach trees, however, Adam is uneasy, and leaves. Later, at a party, Athena arrives, mulches Adam's peach trees, kisses him, and announces her intention to marry him. She also decides, after a numerological calculation, that Adam's friend Johnny Nyle (Vic Damone) would be perfect for her sister, Minerva (Debbie Reynolds).

Athena returns to Adam's house the next morning, to the shock of Adam's fiancée. Adam promises to tell Athena that he has no romantic interest in her, but finds she has left. He asks his legal secretary Miss Seely to search for her but to no avail. Eventually Johnny returns and tells Adam that Athena's family owns a health food store, and that he can find her there.

That night when Adam goes to the house, he meets the meditating Grandma Salome, Minerva and Athena's 5 other beautiful, singing and dancing sisters: Niobe, Aphrodite, Calliope, Medea and Ceres. He also meets the bodybuilders that the girls' grandfather (Louis Calhern) has been training for the Mr. Universe competition, Ed Perkins and Bill Nichols.

Despite the bizarre ways of the family, and although Adam initially tries to resist Athena, he eventually succumbs to her charms, and breaks up with Beth. Just when all is looking rosy, Grandma foresees difficult times ahead. Athena's sisters advise Athena to break up with Adam, however Athena chooses to push ahead with the relationship, knowing that "love can change the stars".

The sisters visit Adam's house while he is out and perform a makeover, removing rugs and screens and installing large urns and fresh flowers. Adam's influential family friend, Mr. Grenville, Adam's law firm partner, Mr. Griswalde, and Adam's campaign manager for election to the United States Congress, Mr. Tremaine, phone Adam's house and reach Athena on the phone. Curious, they visit Adam's house only to find Grandma there in place of the girls.

Adam invites Athena to a formal reception at Mr. Grenville's home. Athena at first charms the party with her pleasant nature and an off-the-cuff rendition of an aria from a Donizetti opera. However she loses her temper when Beth presents Athena with a buffet dinner where all of the vegetables are stuffed with meat.

More difficulties arise when Adam humiliates Ed Perkins and Grandpa on television at the "Mr. Universe" final. Grandpa had hoped that Ed would marry Athena to produce perfect children.  Adam verbally attacks Grandpa over the hypocrisy of many of his beliefs.  Ed threatens Adam by putting him in a hold that Adam gets out of by throwing Ed in a jiu jitsu throw with both events appearing on nationwide television.  Adam is told by his minders that his political career is over because he embarrassed the belief system of Athena's people, alienating voters with those sympathies, whilst those opposed to their beliefs would associate Adam with holding their beliefs by merely being with them.

Despite requisite further conflict, harmony is restored and all of the main players gather around for a Mulvain-style feast.

####Au Pair####
Jennifer "Jenny" Morgan (Heidi Noelle Lenhart) is a young and intelligent working-class woman who just graduated from UCLA with an MBA. She is engaged to Charlie, a feckless man who intends to spend his summer traveling around Europe. After a job offer falls through, she finds herself searching and responds to a promising job ad for Oliver Caldwell's (Gregory Harrison) company, Caldwell Corporation International (CCI). She gets an interview and is led to believe that it is a copy room position, which she decides to move forward with, thinking it would be a foot into the company. Jenny gets the job and is surprised and overwhelmed when a car and its chauffeur show up at her door, telling her to pack and that she is to leave for Paris in a couple of hours. Through a series of errors, Jenny is baffled to discover that she was hired to be the "au pair" for Oliver's two children, Katie (Katie Volding) and Alex (Jake Dinwiddie).

####Austenland####
Jane Hayes, an American woman obsessed with Jane Austen – especially Colin Firth's portrayal of Mr. Darcy in the 1995 BBC adaptation of "Pride and Prejudice" – spends her entire savings on a trip to a Jane Austen-themed resort in England. At “Austenland”, guests receive pseudonyms and period costumes, living as ladies of the Regency era. The highlight of the resort is guaranteed romance with the male actors, though no touching is allowed.

While Jane can only afford the cheapest "copper" package, the other guests have purchased the most expensive "platinum" option. Although she befriends fellow guest Ms. “Elizabeth Charming”, Jane is treated with disdain by the manager, Mrs. Wattlesbrook, who prefers the wealthier guests.

Jane and Elizabeth meet their actor-companions – the obsequious Colonel Andrews and the unenthusiastic Mr. Henry Nobley, Mrs. Wattlesbrook's nephew – and “Lady Amelia Heartwright”, another guest. Amelia and Elizabeth flirt openly with Nobley, who is reserved and Jane finds disagreeable. (Their argument mirrors the first meeting of Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy in "Pride and Prejudice").

Martin, the resort's chauffeur/stablehand, flirts with Jane. Jealous, Nobley rescues her from walking in the rain. She visits Martin at his quarters; after more flirting and witnessing the birth of a foal, they kiss, and spend the following afternoon together. When another actor, the muscular Captain George East, arrives and flirts with Jane, Martin rebuffs her for "parading around" with the actors. She asks if he is breaking up with her, and he replies that they were never "going steady".

Forced to play piano for the group, Jane performs the only song she knows, "Hot in Herre", shocking Mrs. Wattlesbrook. On her way to find Martin, Jane is stopped by Nobley, who warns against “cavorting with the servants". Returning to the house, Jane fights off a drunken Mr. Wattlesbrook.

Determined to find love by the end of her stay, Jane takes charge of her "story". Elizabeth helps her steal some of Amelia's costumes, and Jane charms the group with her new-found confidence. Mrs. Wattlesbrook discovers Jane's contraband cell phone and prepares to evict her, but Amelia lies to save her. In exchange, Amelia blackmails Jane into helping her and East be alone together.

The party rehearses a play (mirroring what the characters did in "Mansfield Park"), and Jane pairs herself with Nobley to allow Amelia time with East. Jane and Nobley bond, and Martin attempts to apologize to her. After the disastrous play, Jane and Nobley sneak off to her room, where he requests a dance during the final ball.

At the ball, Nobley confesses his love to Jane. Disillusioned after watching the other actors fulfill their guests' fantasies with fake proclamations of love, she declares that she would rather have something real and leaves, spending the evening with Martin.

Departing Austenland, Jane discovers that Amelia is American, and that Nobley had asked Amelia to pretend Jane's phone was hers to prevent Jane being sent away. Mrs. Wattlesbrook reveals that the actor assigned to Jane was not Nobley, but Martin – whose romance with Jane was fully scripted. Angry at being duped and certain she is not the only guest assaulted by Mr. Wattlesbrook, Jane threatens to sue Mrs. Wattlesbrook and shut down Austenland.

Martin is sent to the airport to smooth things over with Jane, but Nobley appears, asserting that his own affections were genuine, but Jane dismisses them both. When Nobley tries again to express his feelings, Jane thanks him for being "perfect" and leaves.

Back home, Jane clears out her Darcy collection. Nobley arrives, having traveled across the Atlantic to return her sketchpad. He explains that his name truly is Henry Nobley, he is a history professor who simply wanted to experience the Austen era, and that he does love her. Jane finally believes him and they kiss.

A mid-credits scene reveals that Elizabeth has bought Austenland and turned it into a theme park, assisted by Colonel Andrews. Mr. Wattlesbrook now works as a garbage picker, Captain East does a strip show to Amelia's delight, Martin is snubbed by the guests, and Jane and Nobley are still very much in love.

####Avanti!####
For the last decade, Baltimore industrialist Wendell Armbruster Sr. has annually spent a month at the Grand Hotel Excelsior on the resort island of Ischia on the Bay of Naples, allegedly to soak in the therapeutic mud baths. During his last visit he died in an automobile accident, and his straitlaced son Wendell Armbruster Jr. travels to Ischia to claim the body. He meets Pamela Piggott, a London traveler, who has come to claim the body of her mother. Wendell discovers his father had an affair with Pamela's mother for every one of those ten years, despite his having had a wife in Baltimore. Pamela knows of their parents' clandestine annual meeting. Hotel manager Carlo Carlucci plans a funeral and the delivery of Wendell Senior's remains in three days time so Wendell Junior can take his father's body back to the family home for a funeral to be viewed on television by all the workers in his father's factories. They are delayed at every turn due to the twin Italian traditions of bureaucracy and short working hours.

Pamela asks Wendell to bury their parents together on their beloved Ischia. When the bodies vanish from the morgue, Wendell suspects Pamela. However, the bodies were stolen by the brothers of the Trotta family, whose vineyard was damaged in the accident. Wendell discovers another Italian tradition, extortion. The Trottas spirited the remains away from the morgue, holding them for a two million lire ransom. At the same time, hotel valet Bruno wants to return to America from which he had been deported since he is Italian. Bruno has compromising photos of Wendell's father and Pamela's mother and plans to use blackmail to make his dreams come true. As Wendell and Pamela swim naked, Bruno take a snapshot of them and tries to force Wendell to use his influence to get him an American visa. However, the maid, Anna - whom Bruno has impregnated and seeks to flee Italy to avoid marrying her - kills Bruno in Pamela's room while Pamela is away. Carlucci moves Pamela's property to Wendell's room to prevent her being involved in the incident, but Pamela believes that Wendell has surprised her and ordered the move so the pair can stay together as lovers. Meanwhile, back in the States, Wendell's wife uses her connections to send State Department Agent J.J. Blodgett from Paris to quickly expedite the matter. Wendell and Pamela at last fall in love and have their parents interred together in the Carlucci family cemetery, and place Bruno's remains in a coffin marked as Wendell Senior, granting Bruno's wish to return to the United States.

After enjoying himself in the mud baths, Blodgett appoints Wendell Senior to an embassy post, in the interest of Equal Opportunity Employment by not discriminating regardless of health.  Blodgett then has Wendell Senior's coffin, which is carrying Bruno's remains, sent to America in a diplomatic pouch. Carlucci  promises Pamela and Wendell to have a room ready for a month in a year's time just like he did for their parents. Wendell and Blodgett leave Ischia and head to the airport in Rome on a U.S. Navy helicopter.

####The Awful Truth####
Jerry Warriner (Cary Grant) tells his wife he is going on vacation to Florida, but instead spends the week at his sports club in New York City. He returns home to find that his wife, Lucy (Irene Dunne), spent the night in the company of her handsome music teacher, Armand Duvalle (Alexander D'Arcy). Lucy claims his car broke down unexpectedly. Lucy discovers that Jerry did not actually go to Florida. Their mutual suspicion results in divorce proceedings, with Lucy winning custody of their dog. The judge orders the divorce finalized in 90 days.

Lucy moves into an apartment with her Aunt Patsy (Cecil Cunningham). Her neighbor is amiable but rustic Oklahoma oilman Dan Leeson (Ralph Bellamy), whose mother (Esther Dale) does not approve of Lucy. Jerry subtly ridicules Dan in front of Lucy, which causes Lucy to tie herself more closely to Dan. Jerry begins dating sweet-natured but simple singer Dixie Belle Lee (Joyce Compton), unaware that she performs an embarrassing, sexually suggestive act at a local nightclub.

Convinced that Lucy is still having an affair with Duvalle, Jerry bursts into Duvalle's apartment only to discover that Lucy is a legitimate vocal student of Duvalle and is giving her first recital. Realizing he may still love Lucy, Jerry undermines Lucy's character with Mrs. Leeson even as Dan and Lucy agree to marry. When Jerry attempts to reconcile with Lucy afterward, he discovers Duvalle hiding in Lucy's apartment and they have a fistfight while Dan and his mother apologize for assuming the worst about Lucy. When Jerry chases Armand out the door, Dan breaks off his engagement to Lucy and he and his mother return to Oklahoma.

Some weeks pass, and Jerry begins dating high-profile heiress Barbara Vance (Molly Lamont). Realizing she still loves Jerry, Lucy crashes a party at the Vance mansion the night the divorce decree is to become final. Pretending to be Jerry's sister, she undermines Jerry's character, implying that "their" father was working class rather than wealthy. Acting like a showgirl, she recreates Dixie's risqué musical number from earlier in the film. The snobbish Vances are appalled.

Jerry attempts to explain away Lucy's behavior as drunkenness, and says he will drive Lucy home. Lucy repeatedly sabotages the car on the ride to delay their parting. Pulled over by motorcycle police officers, who believe Jerry is drunk, Lucy manages to wreck the car. The police give the couple a lift to Aunt Patsy's nearby cabin. Although sleeping in different (but adjoining) bedrooms, Jerry and Lucy slowly overcome their pride and a series of comic mishaps in order to admit "the awful truth" that they still love one another. They reconcile at midnight, just before their divorce is to be finalized.

####Bab's Burglar####
As described in a film magazine, Bab's father (Losee) decides to give her an allowance of $1,000 per year with nothing extra. Bab (Clark), believing herself in possession of a small fortune, buys violets for all of her teachers and an automobile for herself, spending the remaining funds for its upkeep. After balancing her books, she finds that she has 16 cents left for the year. However, her father is right there to help her out. She is anxious to see her sister Leila (Greene) married off so that she will be treated as a young woman. Bab mistakes the young man interested in her sister for a burglar and interferes with her sister's elopement. Disgusted at her failure to assist Leila, Bab retires, not knowing that she saved her sister from the hands of a fortune hunter.

####Bab's Diary####
As described in a film magazine, Barbara Archibald (Clark) objects to being pushed into the background and, to give her family something to think about, declares that she is in love and is about to be married and end it all. She is amazed of the effect of her remark and thereupon invents a name for her lover and buys a photograph of a likely looking chap to impersonate him. Matters become complicated when Carter Brooks (Barrie), an old friend of the family, announces to Bab that he knows her newfound friend and promises to bring him to a party so Bab can meet him. He also volunteers to deliver an impassioned love note she penned to her imaginary sweetheart Valentine, the name she had selected for him. An actor made up like the photograph is introduced to Bab and persists in his attentions until she flees from the house. She thinks of the love note and goes to the actor's apartment to secure it. An alarm is raised and she is found by the police apparently drowning in the bathtub, into which she had fallen. Matters are straightened up at home and she is sent back to school in disgrace.

The intertitles for the film are excerpts from Bab's diary which added to its amusement.

####Bab's Matinee Idol####
As described in a film magazine, Bab (Clark) is in love with Adrian (Steele), an actor, and cuts his picture out of a newspaper and worships it. An epidemic of measles breaks out and Bab is sent home. A few days later Bab learns that the play with her idol is in town, so she borrows money to see a performance with her hero. She writes him a note, and he invites her into his dressing room. She learns that unless the show gets more publicity, it will close. She arranges with Carter Brooks (Barrie) and her father (Losee) for Adrian to apply for work at her father's ammunition factory, and after he is thrown out the story will be in the newspapers. However, the Honorable Page Beresford (Chadwick), who is after Bab's sister Leila's (Greene) hand and fortune, arrives at the factory to place an order for shells and, mistaken for Adrian, gets thrown out. When the real Adrian applies for work, he is hired and not allowed to leave, and misses the matinee performance. His irate wife, searching for Adrian, soon puts matters right. Bab succumbs to the measles and the revelation that Adrian is married completely shatters her thoughts of romance, at least for the time being.

####Baby Boom####
J. C. Wiatt is a driven Manhattan management consultant (nicknamed the "Tiger Lady") committed to her demanding and high-profile job. She lives with her boyfriend Steven Buchner, an investment banker. They both are happily focused on their careers and have no interest in having children. Notified that a distant cousin has died and left her a bequest, J.C. is shocked to discover that her "inheritance" is the cousin's orphaned toddler, Elizabeth.

Unwilling to disrupt her hectic life and also clueless about childcare, J.C. arranges to give the child up for adoption, but she grows attached to Elizabeth, forcing J.C. to re-evaluate her priorities. She decides to become a working parent and to raise Elizabeth herself, something Steven has no desire to partake in. They amicably break up, and he moves out.

J.C.'s boss, Fritz Curtis, offers her a chance to become a partner at the firm. CEO Hughes Larrabee is interested in having her manage the account of his major company, The Food Chain. Adjusting to life with Elizabeth, J.C. lands the account, and her protégé Ken Arrenberg is assigned to her team.

Struggling to balance her work and home life, J.C. hires a series of nannies and enrolls Elizabeth in early development classes, as parenthood soon occupies much of her time. When she discovers Ken making decisions without her input, J.C. tells Fritz she wants him off her team. To her surprise, Fritz informs her for the good of the company, Ken will be in charge of the account and J.C. will be reassigned to a lower-profile client, allowing her to spend more time with Elizabeth. Postponing her promotion, Fritz explains that he too was forced to choose between his career and his family.

Humiliated, J.C. quits, and moves with Elizabeth to a farmhouse in Vermont. Purchasing the house without first having seen it in person or having it inspected, she finds it is riddled with problems (failing plumbing and heating, lack of water, bad roof). By winter, she is strapped with escalating repairs needed to her new home, running out of money and patience, and overwhelmed with loneliness.

On the brink of financial collapse, and suffering a nervous breakdown, J.C. meets local veterinarian Dr. Jeff Cooper. At first annoyed by him, she is opposed to Jeff's overtures and is focused now on returning to New York as fast as possible. Finding a buyer for the house proves almost impossible. She sees an opportunity to sell "gourmet" baby food applesauce she had concocted for Elizabeth from fresh ingredients. After a rough start, it grows into a full-fledged business called "Country Baby". As her business expands and orders start pouring in from all over the country, J.C. and Jeff strike up a romance.

Later, Fritz reaches out to J.C. with an offer from The Food Chain to acquire Country Baby, and she returns to her former firm to meet with Larrabee and her former colleagues. They lay out the multi-million-dollar deal to buy her company and distribute its products nationwide, and offering her a lucrative salary with a Manhattan apartment and other benefits.

Ready to accept and that she would be back into her original powerful and prestigious former life in corporate career of New York, J.C. has a change of heart and declines Fritz's offer. She is confident she can grow her company herself without having to sacrifice her relationship with Elizabeth and Jeff. J.C. returns home to Jeff and Elizabeth in Vermont, content with her new life as an active mother, girlfriend, and the CEO of her own burgeoning business.

####Baby It's You####
In 1966 New Jersey, two high school students start a relationship. Upper-middle-class Jewish girl Jill Rosen, who is bound for Sarah Lawrence College, meets a blue-collar Italian boy nicknamed the Sheik, who aspires to follow in Frank Sinatra's footsteps.

Jill, who is successful in high school acting productions, rebuffs Sheik's sexual advances. He has a one-night stand with Jody, a sexually active friend of Jill's; Jody subsequently makes a half-hearted suicide attempt.

Sheik is expelled from school, and after an attempted robbery and subsequent pursuit by local police, he goes to Miami, Florida. Jill leaves for her first year at Sarah Lawrence in the fall of 1967, where she becomes friends with Leslie. Leslie introduces her to her boyfriend's buddy, Steve, and the two couples occasionally double date.

Jill visits Sheik in Florida during spring break, and although she sees clearly how little he has going for himsndwashing dishes at a nightclub where, on weekends, he lip synchs to Frank Sinatra recordingssndshe has sex with him. In the moments before they undress, their conversation turns to his odd nickname, which he had not explained to Jill when they dated in high school. He finally explains that it comes from the Sheik brand of condoms.

Some time after Jill returns to college, no longer a virgin, she sleeps with Steve. Sheik arrives at work to find that he has been replaced by a real singer, albeit one with no great talent. This humiliation makes Sheik self-aware of his almost non-existent opportunities. He steals a car and makes the long drive from Miami to New York, propelled by the romantic notion of reuniting with Jill.

Jill's college experience has not been easy or happy: she has not met with the acting or social success she had in high school. Steve will not take her calls anymore.The act of consummating her desire for Sheik has led her to realize that she does not love him, having moved past the point of romantic and sexual wonder.

When Sheik arrives at Sarah Lawrence and does not find Jill, he violently trashes her room and waits for her return. When she does and he declares his love for her, she tells him that she does not love him, and has no desire for the life that he will have. Sheik briefly resists her response and then, in a moment of dignity, accepts it. Jill asks him, as a favor, to take her to a college dance, for which she has otherwise been unable to find a date.

The dance highlights the quick change of pace in popular culture in the mid-1960s. In the midst of the dance, Sheik and Jill submit a request for the rock band to perform "Strangers in the Night", the Sinatra hit that had been a key part of their high school romance. They look into each other's eyes as they slow-dance.

####Baby Mama####
Successful single businesswoman Kate Holbrook has always prioritized her career over her personal life. Now at age 37, she finally decides to have her own child, but discovers she has a T-shaped uterus, minimizing her chances of becoming pregnant. Also denied the chance to adopt, Kate hires immature, obnoxious, South Philadelphian Angie Ostrowski to become her surrogate mother.

After learning from Chaffee Bicknell, the steely head of their surrogacy center, that Angie has become pregnant, Kate prepares for motherhood in her own typically driven fashion; reading childcare books, baby-proofing the apartment, and researching top pre-schools. However, her strategy is upended when Angie shows up at her door, homeless. Their conflicting personalities put them at odds as Kate learns first-hand about balancing motherhood and career, especially when she begins dating the owner of a local blended-juice cafe, Rob Ackerman.

Unbeknownst to Kate, Angie's in-vitro fertilization procedure had failed and she is feigning the pregnancy, hoping to ultimately run off with her payment. She starts to regret lying, but continually puts off confessing. When Angie gets an ultrasound, she discovers she is indeed pregnant. Realizing the baby is her own - with her common-law husband Carl, from whom she is separated - Angie is forced to confess at Kate's baby shower. Kate explains to Angie that the pregnancy test was supposed to be taken two weeks after the procedure, so the baby could still belong to her.

A court hearing determines that the baby is Angie's, and Angie impassionedly apologizes to Kate. As the women meet face-to-face after the proceedings, Angie's water breaks and Kate rushes her to the hospital, then passes out during the birth. As she wakes up, the doctor supervising Angie tells Kate that she's two months pregnant (the result of her relationship with Rob). After receiving the news, she visits Angie, who is holding her newborn daughter Stef, named for Gwen Stefani. Kate forgives Angie and they become best friends, ultimately changing each other for the better.

A year later at Stef's first-birthday party, Kate and Rob have had a daughter and are engaged, and Angie and Kate have retained a sister-like relationship. Although he does not reunite with Angie, Carl stays close to his daughter and takes parenting classes. In the final scene, Angie and Kate sit in front of a television set with their daughters, watching "Tom and Jerry" cartoons.

####The Bachelor and the Bobby-Soxer####
Margaret Turner (Myrna Loy) and Susan Turner (Shirley Temple) are sisters who live together. Susan is an intelligent 17-year-old high-school student with a habit of forming short-lived interests after hearing the regular guest lectures at school. Margaret is a judge, and Susan's guardian.

Richard Nugent (Cary Grant), a handsome and sophisticated artist, is a defendant in Margaret's courtroom, charged by ADA Tommy Chamberlain (Rudy Vallee) with starting a nightclub brawl. She releases him with a warning when it becomes clear that the fight was started by two women fighting over him.

He proceeds to Susan's school, where he is the guest lecturer for the day&mdash;and as he speaks, Susan becomes infatuated with him. After the talk she finds a reason to spend time with him and suggests she model for him; that evening, she puts on a sophisticated dress and sneaks away from home and into his apartment while he is out.

Richard has no sooner discovered Susan in his apartment than Tommy and Margaret arrive to rescue her from his presumed seduction. Richard assaults Tommy and is held in jail until Matt Beemish (Ray Collins), who is the court psychiatrist and also Margaret and Susan's uncle, intervenes and explains the true situation. He recommends allowing Susan to date Richard until the infatuation burns itself out; Tommy will drop the assault charge if Richard complies.

At a high-school basketball game, Richard tries unsuccessfully to boost Susan's image of Jerry White (Johnny Sands), the boyfriend she dumped for him. Later, at a school picnic, Susan persuades Richard to enter a series of novelty races (open to adult family members), where he loses repeatedly to Tommy. But in the main event, an obstacle course, she asks Jerry to help Richard win. Because he still loves her, Jerry complies, helping him directly at one point, then colliding with Tommy so that Richard does win the event.

Meanwhile, Richard and Margaret are becoming attracted to each other, to the discomfiture of Tommy, who sees Richard as a habitual troublemaker and wants Margaret for himself. Hoping Richard will stop seeing Margaret if he no longer has to date Susan, Tommy announces he is dropping the charge. But Richard and Margaret go out to a nightclub, where they are interrupted in succession by all the other main characters as well as a former girlfriend of Richard's. They all part angrily. Susan accuses Margaret of stealing her boyfriend from her. Matt gets Susan to see that she is only infatuated with Richard and that Richard is too old for her.

Afterwards, though, Matt is able to talk sense into Susan, and she returns to Jerry.  Matt finds out that Richard has decided to take a trip and is able to manipulate affairs so that Margaret will travel with him. Learning that Tommy is coming to arrest Richard on trumped-up charges, Matt forestalls him by telling police at the airport that Tommy is a mental patient with delusions of being an assistant district attorney. Richard and Margaret are happily surprised to meet each other as they approach the plane to board thanks to Matt's manipulation

####Bachelor Apartment####
Wayne Carter is a New York bachelor/playboy, who pays no attention to the marital status of his many dalliances. However, there are some women whose attention he attempts to avoid, one such being the married Agatha Carraway.

Helene and Lita Andrews are small town girls who have come to the big city in order to find fame and fortune.  Helene is much more sensible than her younger sister, Lita, who is a bit flighty.  Eventually, Lita believes she has a millionaire interested in her, Carter. When she goes to have dinner at his apartment, an alarmed Helene goes to track her down to prevent anything untoward from occurring.  However, upon her arrival, she discovers that Lita has really attracted the attention of Carter's butler, Rollins, with whom she is having dinner.

Carter is entranced with the sensible, earnest Helene.  Discovering she is in need of employment, he offers her a job in his office as an executive secretary.  She at first refuses, cautious about his intentions, but in need of work, she eventually relents and accepts the position.  Their mutual attraction grows, and Carter is seemingly beginning to give up his libidinous liaisons, until one afternoon when Carter asks her over to his apartment, not on a personal level, but to take some dictation.  Again leery, she agrees and meets him at his apartment, and all is going well until the flirtatious Agatha shows up at the apartment.  When her husband shows up shortly after, and Agatha hides in the bedroom while the two men have a discussion about marital issues, Helene once again becomes disenchanted with Carter, and resigns her position.

Realizing that he is truly in love with Helene, Carter is relentless in attempting to convince her of his sincerity, and of his deep feelings for her.  Eventually, she comes to believe him, and agrees to meet him at his apartment.  Unfortunately, Agatha is also relentless, and shows up once again.  This time, when her husband shows up slightly later, he is armed and threatens Carter, since he knows his wife is hiding in the bedroom.  To save Carter, Helene, who was with Agatha in the bedroom, exits, and swears that she is the only woman in the apartment.  Mollified, Caraway leaves.  After Agatha also departs, Carter is relieved and thinks everything is all right, but Helene is upset over the entire episode, and leaves deeply upset.

Carter is distraught, thinking he has lost the woman he loves.  Helene rebuffs all of his attempts to win her back.  Nothing works, until Lita runs off to live in sin with a musical producer, Lee Graham.  Carter had introduced the two, in an attempt to further endear himself to Helene, since he found out that Lita dreamed of being a stage performer.  Helene is beside herself with worry, since she has no idea on how to find Lita and Graham.  She turns to Carter, who tracks them down, and reunites the two sisters. Helene finally understands that Carter is being sincere, and accepts his proposal of marriage.

####Bachelor Bait####
Stu Erwin plays a kindhearted man who, after losing his job as a civil servant in a marriage license office, opens his own business, Romance Inc., which becomes a successful matrimonial agency. When he sets up his secretary (Rochelle Hudson) with a wealthy client (Grady Sutton), he realizes just in time that he is really in love with her.

####Bachelor in Paradise####
A.J. Niles is a provocative best-selling author who discovers that he has a large tax debt owed to the IRS, due to being ripped off by his accountant, Herman Wapinger. He goes undercover under the alias "Jack Adams" in a California suburban community called, "Paradise Village", to research a new book about the wives and lives there. Niles is pursued by a flirtatious married woman named, "Dolores", while falling in love with a woman, Rosemary, who rents her house to him. Wapinger is found, Niles' cash is returned to him, and he reveals his true identity on national television.  The husbands in Paradise Village all file for divorce, believing their wives are all having affairs with Niles.  In divorce court, Niles reveals that he is in love with Rosemary and asks her to marry him.  Everyone lives happily ever after.

####The Bachelor####
Bachelor Jimmie Shannon, after spoiling his proposal to his girlfriend of three years, discovers that his grandfather has died and left him the family business under the conditions that he be married by 6:05 p.m and his estate is worth $100 million. On his 30th birthday (which is the next day), that he not be apart from his bride for more than a week at a time over the next 10 years of their marriage, and that they must attempt to produce a child sometime during the first five years of their marriage, leading the bachelor, his friends, and a priest to scramble over the next few hours in search of a bride.

If Jimmie fails, business competitor Oden Sports will buy the company and put Jimmy’s employees out of work if Oden Sports buys the company. Meanwhile, Anne has second thoughts which she shares with her sister Natalie, talks Anne into going home to go visit their parents for the night.

A desperate Jimmie opens a shoebox full of photos of old girlfriends, and begins to track them down. First he sees Stacey, an oil futures trader, who turns out to be engaged. Second is Zoe, a window dresser. Jimmie goes to see her, but just after, he runs off after a woman who he thinks is Anne. He returns to find Zoe has set a mannequin on fire.

He strikes out with an opera singer and a cop. Soon his list is depleted, but his last choice accepts Buckley, who detests Jimmie but wants his money to prop up her family's fortune. As the priest tries to conduct the ceremony, she gradually learns the other conditions of the will. Horrified, she drives away.

Anne misses Jimmie and heads back to the city. Trying to locate him, she calls Marco to arrange dinner with Jimmie.

As everyone scrambles to help Jimmie save the family business, Jimmie realizes the "effect" of marriage, as the priest reveals how he took on the priesthood after his wife died, and that he was proud to be married and produce a family in the process.

Realizing that he loves Anne and is ready to 'take the plunge', Jimmie, after being up all night, rests in the church where Marco had promised to deliver a bride. He awakens to find hundreds of women dressed as brides waiting for him. After trying to settle the women down, Marco lies and says it was all a prank. Marco reveals that Anne is on her way back, so Jimmie flees to the train station, ordering a cake on the way. He makes it there after escaping the brides. He finds Anne in the train, but she has discovered a newspaper with its front page asking, "Would you marry this man for $100 million?" with Jimmie's picture beside. She is upset, but he professes his love for her and they reconcile.

Natalie finds a discarded wedding dress in the station, and Anne puts it on in the bathroom. She opens the door to see hundreds of brides run past, chasing Jimmie. Jimmie flees. He eventually climbs up a flight on a fire escape and shouts for Anne, as the brides gather below. The priest begins to conduct the ceremony over a loudspeaker from inside a police car, causing many 'brides' to attack the car. Anne, in the crowd, makes her way through and up to Jimmie.  Anne convinces the other women to be happy and let it be her day.

The priest finishes the ceremony by pronouncing them husband and wife, to cheers from all, and Jimmie and Anne kiss. They made it just in time before the deadline of 6:05 p.m. to inherit $100 million. She then tosses her bouquet into the teeming crowd below.

####Bachelorette####
Regan Crawford is having lunch with her longtime friend, Becky Archer, who reveals that she will marry her boyfriend, Dale. Although secretly jealous of the fact that her friend is now engaged, Regan notifies their two other friends Jenna Myers and Katie Lawrence.

Six months later, the women are preparing for Becky's bachelorette party that evening; Jenna flies into New York from LA, and the four meet at the hotel, where Katie announces that Jenna has brought cocaine for them all. At the dinner party that night, Jenna runs into her ex Clyde, whom she sees flirting with Dale's younger sister, and Katie runs into Joe, a former classmate and pot dealer. Trevor, the best man, gives a speech at the party, and Jenna says in her toast that she once caught Becky forcing herself to throw up in the high school bathrooms.

After the dinner, the women go to their suite, where Katie's co-worker arrives and does a striptease for them, but Becky stops it after he jokingly calls her "Pigface", a cruel high school nickname. She leaves the bachelorette party, and Regan, Jenna and Katie stay in the room where they keep drinking and doing cocaine. Drunk and high, the three accidentally rip Becky's bridal gown, and Katie stains it with a nosebleed.

Regan contacts a friend who owns a bridal store, who reluctantly agrees to open it for them in the middle of the night. After unsuccessfully searching the store for a dress for Becky, Katie reveals that she can sew, which leads them on a hunt for thread and a sewing machine. Trevor text messages Regan, inviting them to stop by the strip club where the men are, which they agree to. Jenna takes the dress into the strip club's bathroom where she attempts to clean it; there, she has a conversation with a stripper who uses the dress as a towel and toilet paper.

Regan, furious over the situation, gets into an argument with Jenna who insists they confess everything to Becky, and it is revealed in the argument that Jenna had an abortion. Jenna leaves the club with Clyde and the dress.

Meanwhile, Joe attempts to woo Katie, who is heavily intoxicated and high on cocaine, and Regan ends up having sex with Trevor in the strip club bathroom. Clyde and Jenna spend the evening together reminiscing and have sex. Meanwhile, Joe and Katie spend the night in the hotel swimming pool, where Katie reveals that she attempted suicide the year before. Becky calls and asks Regan to come to her room so they can talk; in their conversation, it is revealed that Regan is bulimic, and that Becky covered it for her in high school. Just as Regan begins to tell Becky about her dress, Becky's mother arrives, and they begin to prepare for the wedding.

Jenna and Clyde head to the wedding in the morning while the party planners can't find the dress. Jenna asks a maid at the hotel to help her to touch-up the dress before bringing it to Becky; meanwhile, Katie locks herself in the bathroom and overdoses on Xanax. While Regan forces Katie to vomit the pills, she ends up puking all over Regan's dress. To buy time, Regan convinces Becky to ride to the wedding in her pajamas and put on the dress when she arrives. Irate, Becky screams at her mother and Regan in the taxi. Jenna arrives to the wedding with the dress. It's been completely cleaned except for a tiny bloodstain.

Becky walks down the aisle while Regan and Jenna sit on a bench and watch the ceremony, where they are joined by Katie, who arrives late. At the reception, Joe and Katie talk and kiss, Regan tries to sleep, and Clyde gives an obscene speech about having sex with Jenna the night before. The film ends as the four women make up and dance together at the reception.

####The Back-up Plan####
Zoe gives up on finding the man of her dreams, decides to become a single mother and undergoes artificial insemination. The same day she meets Stan when they both try to hail the same taxi. They run into each other twice more at a farmers market and a pet store. Stan convinces Zoe to go on a no-obligations date. Zoe is still uncertain whether she is pregnant or not and if she should tell Stan. The night she takes the test, Stan takes her for a romantic dinner in a garden. Things don't turn out as well as planned when he spills the wine and a fire occurs. At the end of the night Stan asks her to come to his farm during the weekend and Zoe finds out that she is pregnant.

She goes to the farm determined to tell him that she is pregnant. They sleep together and afterwards Stan is confused and angry that she didn't tell him before and Zoe leaves the next morning believing that things are over between them. However, Stan decides he still wants to be with her and they reconcile. They go to the doctor and find out that Zoe is actually carrying twins. Overwhelmed, Stan goes to a children's playing area to figure out what it means to be a father, but is suspected to be a pervert; this is soon cleared up. He finds a friend there that he can talk to about the pregnancy throughout the movie, while Zoe gets little support from her Single Mothers and Proud group when the group members discover she is no longer single. Stan takes the next step to becoming a father and orders a stroller for the twins. After many misunderstandings and comedic revelations, Zoe and Stan are walking into the Market when they run into Stan's ex-girlfriend. Due to Stan's remark that the twins are not his, Zoe believes that he is not ready to become a father to them, and breaks off the relationship.

Later, the stroller that Stan ordered arrives and Zoe figures out that Stan was never planning to leave. At her grandmother's wedding, Zoe's water breaks and on the way to the hospital they make a pit stop at the Market. Zoe apologizes to Stan and they begin to work things out. He pulls out the penny that she turned over when they first met and Zoe promises to trust him more. Zoe gives birth to twin girls, one of whom they name Penny. In the end, Stan opens a store/restaurant next to Zoe's pet shop and after the Grand Opening speech Stan asks Zoe to marry him and she says yes. On their way home, she spontaneously throws up into a trash can and realizes that she may be yet again pregnant.

####Bad Johnson####
Rich is a sex addict who ruins every relationship through infidelity. He wishes that his penis would leave him alone. He wakes up one day to find his penis has taken on human form.

####Bakery in Brooklyn####
Two cousins, raised as sisters, set out to save the family bakery. The owner, their aunt, dies suddenly and unexpectedly. A banker is trying to foreclose on bakery, but is prevented from doing so when it's declared a heritage site. The cousins succeed in saving the bakery.

(In a completely, seemingly unrelated side plot, an old couple tries to kill Danielle and Ian with poisoned tea.)

The movie ends with Vivien and Paul kissing by a tree in a square in Valencia.

####Ball of Fire####
A group of professors, all bachelors except for a widower, have lived together for some years in a New York City residence, compiling an encyclopedia of all human knowledge. The youngest, Professor Bertram Potts (Gary Cooper), is a grammarian who is researching modern American slang. The professors are accustomed to working in relative seclusion at a leisurely pace with a prim housekeeper, Miss Bragg, keeping watch over them. Their impatient financial backer, Miss Totten, suddenly demands that they finish their work soon.
When a slang using garbage man (Allen Jenkins) comes in asking the professors' assistance for a quiz, Bertram realizes he is far behind the latest uses of slangs and entures out to do some independent research and becomes interested in the slang vocabulary of nightclub performer Katherine "Sugarpuss" O'Shea (Barbara Stanwyck). She is reluctant to assist him in his research until she suddenly needs a place to hide from the police, who want to question her about her boyfriend, mob boss Joe Lilac. Sugarpuss takes refuge in the house where the professors live and work, despite Bertram's objections and their housekeeper's threat to leave because of her. In the meantime, Joe decides to marry her, but only because as his wife she would not be able to testify against him.

The professors soon become enamored of her femininity, and she begins to grow fond of them. Sugarpuss teaches them to conga and demonstrates to Bertram the meaning of the phrase "yum yum" kisses. She becomes attracted to Bertram, who reciprocates by proposing marriage to her. She avoids giving him an answer to the proposal and agrees to Joe's plan to have the professors drive her to New Jersey to marry him. After a series of misadventures, including a car crash, Sugarpuss realizes that she is in love with Bertram, but is forced to go ahead with her marriage to Joe to save the professors from his henchmen. Bertram, meanwhile, unaware of Sugarpuss' love for him, prepares to resume his research, sadder but wiser, until he discovers her true feelings.

The professors eventually outwit Joe and his henchmen and rescue Sugarpuss. She claims she is not good enough for Bertram, but his forceful application of a kiss changes her mind.

####The Band Wagon####
Tony Hunter, once a famous star of musical comedies on stage and later on screen, is largely forgotten after three years without appearing in a film. He returns from Hollywood to New York. At Grand Central Station, he is recognized but almost ignored by reporters who are there by chance as Ava Gardner is on the same train. However, he is greeted enthusiastically by his good friends Lester and Lily Marton, and they tell him they have written a stage show, a light musical comedy, that will be a perfect comeback for Tony. They will also act in it, and they already have caught the interest of Jeffrey Cordova, who they say can do anything: Currently he is starring in, as well as directing, a new adaptation of "Oedipus Rex" that he wrote based on the original Greek story.

As soon as Jeffrey hears Lily outline the play, he declares it to be a brilliant reinterpretation of the "Faust" legend, which should star Tony and himself as the characters corresponding to Faust and the Devil. The Martons are delighted that he will be acting as well as directing, but Tony is dubious about the "Faust" idea. Jeffrey declares that the boundaries between genres in the theater are artificial, and "Bill Shakespeare" and Bill Robinson are all parts of the same whole—to prove his point, he leads the four in singing "That's Entertainment!" Tony agrees, and Jeffrey has the Martons rewrite the play as a dark, pretentious musical drama (when Lester also becomes dubious, Lily insists that one person must be in charge and Jeffrey can succeed at anything).

Jeffrey does succeed in arranging for the beautiful and talented ballerina Gabrielle "Gaby" Gerard to join the production, along with Paul Byrd, who is her boyfriend, choreographer, and manager—even though he always insisted that a musical play would be beneath her. When Tony and Gaby meet, they become sarcastic and hostile to each other, but this is actually because they are insecure: Each of them feels much less talented than the other.

Eventually, it all proves too much for Tony, and he walks out. Gaby follows to meet him privately. In his hotel room, she comments that the paintings by famous artists on the wall are better reproductions than usual in a hotel; he says they are his own property, and are originals. She recognizes a painting of ballerinas as an early Degas. Tony and Gaby put their troubles aside, go for a horse-drawn carriage ride, dance together, and realize they can work together after all. They also begin to fall in love.

When the first out-of-town tryout in New Haven proves disastrous, Tony demands that Jeffrey convert the production back into the light comedy that the Martons had envisioned. Jeffrey says that while they will have to find new backers because the original ones have walked out, he will be happy to appear in that show—if Tony is in charge of it. Tony accepts, using his art collection to finance the production.  Paul says the show is no longer suitable for Gaby and walks out, expecting her to follow, but she is pleased to stay and work with Tony.

After some weeks on tour to perfect the new lighthearted musical numbers, the revised show proves to be a hit on its Broadway opening. Afterwards, Gaby and Tony kiss in front of the entire cast and crew, and the finale is a reprise of "That's Entertainment!"

####Bare Essentials####
Gordon (Linn-Baker) and Sydney (Hartman) are both hard-working, over-stressed, and engaged and decide to take a short cruise. However, they end up getting lost and stranded on an island named Luhana. While there, they meet an American named Bill (Harrison) who has lived on the island for 3 years and also owns it. Eventually Sydney starts to fall for Bill. They take walks together and swim in the ocean. They wind up having sex under water. Meanwhile, Gordon's laid up since hurting his back after chopping down a palm tree to make a boat out of. Gordon meets Tarita who turns out to be Bill's girlfriend. When Sydney finds out, she's furious. The two couples end up playing Monopoly like they're at war. Gordon is falling for Tarita, who gave him a massage earlier which cured his back. Eventually, the couples switch partners for the better. But then, Sydney finds out that Bill has been hiding on the island because he's wanted for insider trading. She decides to turn him in to the police who eventually show up to rescue her and Gordon. She then decides not to, as she's grown very fond of him. She and Gordon start to head back home. But Gordon then jumps ship and swims back to Tarita. Sydney returns to New York, but realizes she misses Bill. She gets on a ferry to take her back to the island. Bill surprises her by showing up on the ferry, clean shaven and wearing a suit, to return to his old life in the city. He tells her he was framed and that his case has been settled. Gordon now owns Luhana. Sydney and Bill kiss as the movie ends.

####Barefoot in the Park####
Corie (Fonda), a free-spirited young woman, and Paul Bratter (Redford), a conservative, uptight man, are a recently married couple who move into a fifth-floor apartment in Greenwich Village. One of the film's running jokes alludes to the fact that everyone has to climb so many stairs to get to their apartment. Corie decorates the small, leaky space, turning it into a picturesque little home for the two. Among their many eccentric neighbors is the quirky Victor Velasco (Boyer), who befriends Corie and even flirts with her. He lives in the building's attic, so he climbs through the Bratters' window to get to his apartment. He also helps Corie with her place, showing her how to work the seemingly broken heating and plumbing.

Corie sets up a dinner date with Paul, Victor, and Corie's mother, Ethel Banks (Natwick), in a scheme to make her mother fall for Victor. Corie feels that her mother is lonely and in need of love now that she lives alone. Victor takes them all to an Albanian restaurant on Staten Island, whose owner he knows. There the group drinks, and Corie and Victor dance with a belly dancer, while Paul and Ethel watch in embarrassment. Afterward, Corie and Victor return to their building in high spirits as Paul and Ethel drag themselves along in fatigue. As Victor escorts Ethel outside, Corie and Paul begin an argument over their different personalities. Corie feels that her adventurous spirit is impeded by Paul's cautious attitude, noting that he refused to go barefoot in the park with her one evening. His excuse was that it was freezing. Corie says she will kick Paul out and get a big dog to protect her from him. Paul quips that it will finally allow her to have someone who will go barefoot in the park with her. They eventually go to sleep, Corie in their tiny bedroom and Paul on the couch under a hole in the skylight on a snowy February night.

The next day, Paul comes down with a fever, but Corie still insists she wants a divorce. The two spend an awkward time together in their apartment until Corie kicks Paul out. She then receives a call from her aunt, who says that Ethel never came home. Corie panics, and eventually learns that her mother was at Victor's apartment. While Victor was escorting her to her home in New Jersey the previous night, Ethel slipped on icy stairs and fell. Victor and some neighbors took her back to Victor's apartment, where they spent the night. Strangely, Ethel was wearing nothing but her undergarments and Victor's Japanese kimono. It turned out that Victor had Ethel's dress dry-cleaned.



Meanwhile, a drunken Paul skips work and sits in Washington Square Park. Heeding her mother's advice, Corie goes out searching for Paul and finds him drunk and running barefoot through the park. The once cautious Paul is now a fun-loving drunk while Corie cautiously chases after him in order to get him to sober up. Eventually, Paul says it is his apartment and he is going back home. Corie follows. Back at the apartment, Paul, still drunk, climbs onto the roof of the apartment. Scared he might fall, Corie begs him to come down while speaking to him through the hole in the skylight. He says he will only come down if she repeats after him. He wants her to admit that her husband is a crazy drunk, when a few nights before she scolded him for being so cautious and practical even when he is drunk. Meanwhile, realizing where he is, Paul becomes scared, and almost falls off the building. Corie asks Paul to sing an Albanian folk song they had heard at the restaurant that Victor had taken them to calm himself down. While he sings, Corie climbs up to the roof to help him down. A crowd of onlookers starts to gather in the street, including Ethel and Victor. When Corie reaches Paul, they kiss and climb back down as the crowd cheers.

####The Baroness and the Butler####
Johann Porok, a third-generation butler in the service of Count Albert Sandor, the Prime Minister of Hungary, is unexpectedly elected to the Hungarian parliament, representing the opposition social progressive party. Despite this, he insists on remaining a servant as well. Count Sandor is pleased with this peculiar arrangement, as he has found Johann to be the perfect butler and does not wish to break in a new man. His daughter, Baroness Katrina Marissey, however, considers Johann a traitor and treats him very coldly.

In parliament, Johann attacks the Prime Minister, his employer, for yearly promising much to the poor underclass and delivering nothing, always citing "difficulties". To Katrina's puzzlement, the Count is not offended in the least and remains quite friendly with Johann. Within three months, Johann becomes the leader of his party. Katrina becomes more and more furious, finally throwing her purse and striking Johann in parliament during one of his scathing speeches. When his colleagues assume it was thrown by someone from the ruling conservative party, a brawl breaks out, and Johann and the Prime Minister hastily depart. Baron Georg Marissey, Katrina's husband and another member of parliament, later informs them that a vote of confidence was held after they left; the Count lost and will have to resign as Prime Minister. He is pleased to be able to spend more time with his wife. However, he reluctantly discharges Johann, as he has been neglecting his duties as head butler. They part good friends.

When Katrina holds a ball, her ambitious husband invites Johann without her knowledge. Left alone together, Katrina gradually warms to Johann. Then he confesses that he loves her, and that is why he is trying to better himself, even though he knows his cause is hopeless. Katrina embraces and kisses him. They are interrupted by Georg and Major Andros, another ardent admirer of Katrina. In private, Georg offers to divorce Katrina in return for Johann nominating him for the office of Minister of Commerce. Despite Katrina's strong opposition, Johann does just that in parliament. However, Katrina denounces the bargain in public, and Georg is forced to leave the parliamentary chamber in disgrace. In the final scene, Johann Porok is served breakfast in bed by the "maid", Katrina, who is revealed to be Mrs. Porok.

####Bathing Beauty####
In Los Angeles, songwriter Steve Elliot (Red Skelton) prepares to marry Caroline Brooks (Esther Williams), who has pledged to give up her job as a college swimming instructor. Likewise, Steve plans to quit his songwriting career, even though New York producer George Adams (Basil Rathbone) has already hired him to write new songs for a water ballet show.

When George overhears Steve discussing his "retirement" with Caroline, he vows to prevent it and enlists Maria Dorango (Jacqueline Dalya), an aspiring actress posing as a Latin-American singer, to help him. Moments after a justice of the peace pronounces the redheaded Steve and Caroline man and wife, Maria rushes in, claiming that Steve is her husband and the father of her three redheaded children, which she has paraded in at that moment. Although Steve pleads his innocence, Caroline storms off in a rage and returns to her teaching post at Victoria College in New Jersey. A determined Steve and his friend, Carlos Ramírez, follow her there, but are denied entrance to the all-female school.

Later, in a New York nightclub, Steve meets drunken lawyer Chester Klazenfrantz (Donald Meek), and learns that Klazenfrantz has been hired to change the charter of Victoria College, which has never officially designated itself as all-female. Armed with this information, Steve returns to Victoria and insists on applying for admission. Unaware of Caroline's relationship to Steve, Dean Clinton (Nana Bryant) suggests to the faculty that he be admitted for a two-week probationary period, during which time they would give him 100 demerits, which would qualify him for expulsion before Parents Day.

Once enrolled, Steve tries to speak with Caroline, but she refuses to listen to his explanations and tells him she is seeking an annulment. Later, in music class, stodgy Professor Hendricks (Francis Pierlot) attempts to discredit Steve, whose presence on campus has created a furor among the co-eds, by ordering him to write his own version of the Scottish ballad "Loch Lomond" and teach the next day's class. With help from several talented students, Carlos, the music teaching assistant (Ethel Smith), and Steve's friend Harry James and his orchestra, Steve meets Hendricks' challenge and is awarded an "A".

That night, Steve visits Caroline at her house, but is turned out after Willis Evans (Bill Goodwin), a conservative botany professor who is in love with Caroline, arrives. When Caroline realizes that Steve is hiding in her closet, spying on her, she commands Willis' Great Dane, Duke, to guard the closet door, while reminding Steve that unless he is in his room in five minutes, he will be expelled for breaking curfew. With only seconds to spare, Steve manages to trick the dog long enough to escape back to his dingy basement room. Steve is then visited by George, who threatens to vilify him in the press unless he finishes his songs. When Steve swears deadly revenge on the person who hired Maria, however, George backs down and offers to help Steve do his homework. Concerned about the approaching Parents Day, Dean Clinton, meanwhile, commands Steve's professors, who have penalized him with only fifty-five demerits, to bear down on him. To that end, Mme. Zarka (Ann Codee), Steve's ruthlessly strict ballet teacher, forces him to wear a tutu and dance with the co-eds, but Steve once again rises to the occasion.

A now desperate Dean Clinton asks Caroline to go out with Steve and ensure that he arrives back at Victoria after the curfew. Caroline agrees, but during the evening, Steve convinces her of his innocence, and as they drive back to school, they make plans to return to California together. Unbeknownst to them, Maria is on campus, looking to expose George, who has been trying to get rid of her, to Steve. At the same time, a campus sorority descends on Steve's room, hoping to initiate him, and Jean Allenwood (Jean Porter), another co-ed, shows up with news that her parents and Dean Clinton are on their way over to inspect his room. As Steve desperately hides all the women in two closets and keeps Caroline from discovering Maria, George unexpectedly arrives. Although Steve succeeds in hiding George and himself and fooling Dean Clinton and the Allenwoods, Maria soon makes her presence known to Caroline, who once again leaves in a fury. Later, Steve promises to write songs for George's water ballet show on condition he make Caroline the star. George agrees, and after Maria is finally able to tell Caroline the truth, Caroline happily reunites with Steve, who then gives George a thrashing.

####The Baxter####
Elliot, a tax accountant from Brooklyn, is a dependable though thoroughly average young man doomed to be the "Baxter", the nice guy who's bound to lose the girl to the leading man in romantic comedies. Losing three girlfriends to last-minute rekindled relationships with their ex-boyfriends has made Elliot wary of being abandoned yet again.

About a week before his wedding to his girlfriend, Caroline Swann, Elliot discovers that her high school beau, Bradley, is back in town. Elliot tries to keep himself composed, but even Caroline's reassurances do not convince him that her feelings for Bradley are buried. In the meantime, Elliot meets Cecil, his temporary secretary at his accounting firm. As he resigns himself to losing Caroline to Bradley, Cecil offers him a ray of hope: she does not believe in "Baxters" and thinks that his predicament is avoidable.

The two meet up again later that night at a small club where Cecil performs her original songs, and Cecil tells Elliot he needs to take more risks. When Cecil has a fight with her unsupportive boyfriend Dan, Elliot offers to put her up for the night. The next morning, Caroline shows up early with their wedding planner to finalize their plans. Elliot panics due to Cecil's hidden presence and during the meeting makes a string of awkward suggestions, upsetting Caroline, who begins to doubt his commitment to their relationship, to the point of calling off the wedding.

While out to a bar with his friends from work, Elliot accidentally runs into Dan, who recognizes him as Cecil's "Baxter" friend. Dan is there to meet with Sonya, who's Bradley's current girlfriend and Dan's old college friend. They all decide to sit together, much to Elliot's chagrin. Both Dan and Bradley laugh and joke with Elliot's friends, until one of them mentions that Caroline left him. Depressed and upset, Elliot leaves and contemplates suicide but he's interrupted by Caroline's brother-in-law, Louis (David Wain), who tells him Caroline is willing to give their engagement another chance.

Elliot plans a romantic dinner with Caroline, but finds her with an anguished Bradley, who just broke up with Sonya and is back flirting with Caroline. Caroline convinces Elliot to take Bradley out with them. They cancel Elliot's reservations to an expensive restaurant and go instead to a burger place that Bradley knows well. Elliot feels out-of-place and eventually calls Cecil from the back of the restaurant, confessing that he feels that his marriage will be over before it begins.

The next day, Elliot arrives at work to find that Cecil is his temp again. When she proposes to go have a drink together, Elliot explains that after his phone call, the night actually got better for him. As Caroline accused Elliot of being unromantic, he stood up for himself and accepted to go dance with her and Bradley, actually impressing Caroline with his moves. Bradley shows off his breakdance routines, accidentally hitting Elliot in the face, to Caroline's concerns. Bradley apologizes and reveals that he will leave the next morning to Malta for his work as a geode student.

Though happy for him, Cecil is saddened by the news because of her growing feelings for Elliot. She mentions that Dan is moving to Cincinnati and she's going to follow him there, to Elliot's discomfort.

At Caroline and Elliot's wedding, Bradley crashes the ceremony and declares his love for Caroline, a split second after Elliot was going to voice his own objection. Caroline finally gives in and kisses Bradley passionately in front of the whole church. Elliot takes off immediately to catch Cecil before she leaves town, and finds her at her apartment right while Dan is leaving. Elliot declares his love for her, and chases off an old friend of hers who suddenly showed up. Later, they perform together at the same club where they had their first date, with Cecil singing one of her songs and Elliot playing the piano to back her up.

In a mid-credits scene, Dan reflects in narration on his own status as a Baxter, having just lost the girl to the leading man.

####The Beautician and the Beast####
The film opens with an animated sequence in which a prince awakens a princess with a kiss, though she rejects his romantic advances and runs away. The scene shifts to live action beautician Joy Miller, who teaches at a New York City beauty school. One of her students accidentally sets the classroom ablaze by igniting hair spray with a cigarette. She escorts her class and some caged animals to safety, prompting the "New York Post" to run a headline praising Joy as a hero. Ira Grushinsky, a diplomat from the Eastern European country Slovetzia, mistakes Joy for a science teacher after seeing a newspaper photo. He hires her as a tutor for the four children of Boris Pochenko, Slovetzia's dictator. However, she misinterprets his job offer as teaching hairstyling. Although she has never heard of the country, she accepts the job despite her initial hesitation. After arriving at Slovetzia, Ira is surprised to discover Joy's true identity, but she convinces him to keep it a secret.

Despite making a bad first impression with Boris, Joy gets along with his children Katrina, Karl, Masha, and Yuri. While teaching them about life outside Slovetzia, she also helps them to gain confidence in themselves. She learns about Katrina's relationship with Alek, the leader of the youth rebellion, and encourages Karl to pursue his dream of becoming an artist. Joy frequently clashes with Pochenko, who is disturbed by her independence and his inability to frighten her. Joy and Katrina go to a nightclub which also operates as a base for those planning the rebellion; Prime Minister Leonid Kleis follows the pair and arrests Alek.

Growing closer to Joy, Boris confesses to her that he wants to change his reputation as a "beast" among Western nations; she encourages him to form closer relationships with his citizens and shaves his mustache. During a trip to a factory, Joy realizes that Slovetzia lacks trade unions and encourages the workers to hold a strike. She also arranges a secret meeting between Katrina and Alek in his cell. Despite Leonid's advice to fire Joy, she convinces Boris to hold a party for visiting emissaries during a summit meeting to debut his new image; he places her in charge of the preparations. As part of the summit, Boris considers releasing Alek despite Leonid's disapproval. On the day of the event, Joy reveals her identity to Boris, but he does not care about her credentials. He thanks her for bringing happiness to him and his family.

During the party, Leonid confronts Joy about her role in Katrina's secret meetings with Alek and threatens to have her arrested for treason. Following Boris' decision to keep Alek in jail, Joy informs him that she had set up meetings between Alek and Katrina; he argues with Joy over her meddling in Slovetzia's political affairs. She quits and returns to New York City. Over the course of several weeks, Leonid quietly takes over administrative duties and signs death sentences in Boris' name. When Ira informs Boris that Leonid is usurping his power, he strips Leonid of his duties and arrests him on charges of treason. Boris reunites with Joy in New York City and informs her that he has freed Alek and agreed to hold free elections in Slovetzia. Boris kisses Joy after admitting his feelings for her.

####The Beautiful Blonde from Bashful Bend####
Hot-headed Winifred "Freddie" Jones is a saloon singer in the Old West who catches her boyfriend, gambler Blackie Jobero, flirting with another woman and takes a shot at him with the six-shooter she always carries. Unfortunately, she hits a judge instead, so her friend Conchita and she take it on the lam. When they get to a tiny hole-in-the-wall town, Freddie and Conchita are mistaken for the new schoolmarm and her Indian maid. They meet the local muckety-mucks, including wealthy Charles Hingelman, owner of a valuable gold mine, who starts to romance Freddie. When Blackie shows up while tracking Freddie down, complications ensue.

####Beauty & the Briefcase####
Joanne, a fashion photographer, helps her friend Lane Daniels (Hilary Duff), an aspiring writer, get in to see Kate White, the primary editor at "Cosmopolitan" magazine, to pitch a story idea - which does not go well. On the way out the door, Lane tells Kate about her elaborate check-list and how hard it is to find a good man, which leads to Kate assigning Lane the task of joining the business world to find a man who checks all the criteria of her "list", amongst all those eligible "downtown" bachelors, and writing an article about that. She is to go undercover and look for her "magic man" (one for whom she has a lengthy checklist of desirable attributes, as opposed to her friend Joanne's checklist, which consists of 1. breathing and 2. cute). With a fraudulent résumé, Lane bluffs, bumbles, and sabotages her way into getting an administrative assistant position in the Corporate Strategic Planning department of a major investment firm. She is to work for Tom Rinehart (Michael McMillian), Managing Director, who is a bit of a quirky 'stick in the mud' when it comes to personal 'risk-taking'.

Lane sets about to finding men she can date, and does so, without quick success at her goal. One night, she and Joanne bump into Liam at a bar, and she is immediately impressed. He is handsome, British, polite, witty, spontaneous, a world traveler, etc. - having most of the qualities on her checklist. She goes on a date with Liam and is seriously interested. But she also has a previously planned date with Seth, a co-worker. They go out, but Seth "isn't" Liam.

Meanwhile, Tom discovers Lane's qualifications for the job are non-existent, but she is trying to do the work, so he warns her to stop lying and "get back to work". A more immediate problem is that Kate told Lane to date only businessmen in suits, which Liam is not. Kate tells Lane to focus on Seth, but Lane decides to continue seeing Liam, while using the name and persona of Seth in her article. One night, Lane and a friend (Brandi Coleman), bump into Tom at the corner market. The friend thinks he's cute, but Lane tells her that he has a girlfriend, and she has not thought of him as a prospect. Following Kate's directive, Lane has lunch with Seth at work one day, but is thinking about Liam.

Due to her 'fashion sense', Lane is assigned to handle the visuals for the upcoming big meeting with the boss. She also discovers Tom is no longer with his demanding girlfriend Whitney. Tom asks Lane to help him with a 'makeover' for the big meeting, so they go out to shop and have fun doing so - Lane gets him to buy a blue shirt that brings out his eyes instead of his usual plain white dress shirts, along with a new tie, shoes, and handsome suit.

While Lane is off to pick up mock-ups of the visuals at the printer, Tom, on returning to the office, accidentally finds Lane's article. When she returns, he angrily confronts her (and Seth) about her deception. Seth is totally confused. She leaves, thinking she is fired. Out that night, commiserating with Joanne, Lane discovers that Liam is a total fraud and he has lied about everything. In reality, he is a waiter at a restaurant. Lane realizes all her lying has caused her bad karma.

The next day, to her surprise, Tom calls her and tells her to get into the office to present the visuals at the big meeting. She does, and it goes well, but the boss informs all there that there are going to be major cut-backs and a closing of the entire department due to 'economic realities'. As all are down-faced, Lane speaks up to the boss, and advises Tom to pitch his ideas about 'going green' to save a lot of money. The boss listens and asks for more details to be delivered later.  Everyone is happy Tom has saved the department.
Lane apologizes to Seth, and he confesses he could never do the things she described in her article, as he is allergic to chocolate.

Tom and Lane part, he wishing her luck about her article. She is depressed, as the outcome she was hoping for did not materialize, and the article assigned to her is not what she now has. Lane also realizes the search for a 'magic man' is a pointless fantasy, and that real love is not about perfection. Kate calls her in, and Lane thinks she will be fired again. Kate surprises her by informing her that the article is now a cover story. Kate tells her the "real" story was about how Lane had 'to figure things out for herself'. Kate also cleverly makes Lane sheepishly realize Tom is the magic man she has been looking for. She runs to his office to find him, and professes her love for him. He replies he loves her too, and they embrace and kiss.

Lane's next Cosmo article is about 'how to help your boyfriend become more fashion savvy'. Tom's 'greening division' is a success, and she helps him out with his presentations from time to time. Lane finally finds her "perfect" man in Tom, who she really loves, especially due to his quirky personality.

####Because I Said So####
Daphne (Diane Keaton), is the loving but over-bearing mother of three women. Her daughters Maggie (Lauren Graham) and Mae (Piper Perabo) are happily married, but her youngest, Milly (Mandy Moore), recently broke up with her boyfriend, and Daphne is concerned.

Daphne fears that her daughter cannot find a good man on her own, so she secretly places a personal ad on her behalf. She finds a potential candidate, Jason (Tom Everett Scott), and tries to orchestrate a chance meeting of the two. The plan seems flawless until Milly finds her own date, guitarist Johnny (Gabriel Macht), who happens to be a candidate Daphne had previously rejected. Milly is unaware of her mother's scheming and begins relationships with both Jason and Johnny at the same time, with neither aware of the other.

Inevitably, this double-dating takes its toll and Milly becomes estranged from both Jason and Johnny. Meanwhile, Daphne stumbles upon her own perfect match after being alone for many years, and Milly realizes she has to choose between being the daughter her mother wants her to be and being the woman she wants herself to be. Choosing the latter leads to a row with her mother, but when Milly reconciles with Johnny, Daphne comes to realize that this is the relationship that was meant to be in the first place.

####Bed & Breakfast####
A charming Englishman changes the lives of three generations of women who run a near-bankrupt bed and breakfast. Three women find him out cold on a beach and offer him free board in return for fixing the place up and being the handy man. Claire, widow of Senator Blake Wellesly, is initially unwilling to let him in the house, partly due to the mystery around him caused by amnesia. Her mother-in-law Ruth, recently retired and craving adventure, insists on allowing him inside. Claire's teenage daughter Cassie, who is rebellious against her mother's old-fashioned behavior most of the time, names him Adam.

####Bed of Roses####
Lorry (Constance Bennett) and Minnie (Pert Kelton) are a pair of rollickingly wanton prostitutes who occasionally get hapless male admirers drunk before robbing them. After being released from a Louisiana jail they head down the Mississippi River on a steamboat. Lorry steals $60 from a "Mr. Smith" she entertains in her room, and when she is confronted by the boat's captain, who accuses her of the theft, she escapes by jumping off the vessel into the river. She loses the $60 as she is rescued by cotton barge skipper Dan (Joel McCrea), so she robs him too.

Once in New Orleans, Lorry disguises herself as a newspaper writer in order to meet publishing magnate Stephen Paige (John Halliday) that she took notice of on the steamboat. She then gets him drunk, takes him to his home, and the next morning blackmails him into supporting her, including renting a lavish apartment for her. She returns to the cotton barge and repays Dan his "loan" and they fall in love. Minnie now arrives at Lorry's apartment, soon followed by Stephen, who threatens to expose her sordid past, causing her to leave him but not to return to Dan, whom she had agreed to marry. When Stephen cannot persuade her to return to him, he realizes that she really does love Dan, and he brings about their reunion with the help of the now-married Minnie.

####Bedazzled####
The Devil runs a computer simulation to analyze souls to determine individual weaknesses to exploit. The program settles on Elliot Richards, a geeky, over-zealous man working a dead-end job in a San Francisco computer company. He has no friends and his co-workers avoid him. He has a crush on colleague Alison Gardner, but lacks the courage to ask her out. After Elliot is ditched by his co-workers at a bar while trying to talk to Alison, he says he would give anything for Alison to be with him. The Devil, in the form of a beautiful woman, overhears him and offers to give Elliot seven wishes in exchange for his soul.

As a test, Elliot wishes for a Big Mac and a large Coke. The Devil takes him to McDonald's and places the order. Elliot has to pay for it, because, "There's no such thing as a free lunch." After taking Elliot to her office, based at a nightclub in Oakland, the Devil convinces Elliot to sign her  contract, and delivers further wishes. Each wish has Elliot living them out with Alison and his co-workers in surrogate roles. However, the Devil always spoils his wishes by adding something he does not expect or want.

After going through five wishes, Elliot is arrested after confessing his story to a priest who believed he was drunk. The Devil, dressed as a police officer, throws him in a cell, telling him that she likes him, and it would not hurt to have her as a friend. Elliot's friendly cellmate tells him that he cannot sell his soul as it belongs to God, and although the Devil may try to confuse him, in the end he will realize who he truly is, and what his purpose is. Elliot questions the man as to his identity, but the response is simply "a really good friend".

Elliot asks the Devil to cancel their contract. When the Devil refuses, Elliot states he will not use his final wish. The Devil teleports them to Hell. When the Devil pushes him to make a final wish, Elliot wishes that Alison could have a happy life – with or without him. The Devil sighs and Elliot falls into the depths of Hell. He wakes up on a marble staircase, wondering if it is Heaven. The Devil tells him that a provision in the contract's fine print states that a selfless wish voids the contract. Elliot admits that despite her manipulation of him he has come to like the Devil and regards her as a friend. She advises that Heaven and Hell can be found on Earth; it is up to humans to choose. Elliot asks Alison out, but discovers she is already dating another man. He continues with his life, with a better understanding of who he is.

Elliot is confronted by Bob, one of his co-workers, who ridicules Elliot at the encouragement of his co-workers. Elliot grabs a terrified Bob by the shirt, but lets go, simply saying, "Nice talking to you." At home, he meets a new neighbor, Nicole Delarusso, whose looks resemble Alison's but whose personality, interests and fashion sense are much closer to his. He offers to help her unpack and they begin a relationship. While the two walk along a boulevard, the Devil and Elliot's cellmate, both dressed in white, are playing chess. The Devil's computer program lists Nicole and Elliot's foibles, which they tolerate.

####A Bedtime Story####
Chevalier plays a Parisian playboy who finds himself obliged to care for an abandoned baby. The film was directed by Norman Taurog and also stars Edward Everett Horton, Helen Twelvetrees, and Baby LeRoy (in his film debut, as the baby).

####Believe Me, Xantippe####
As described in a film magazine, George MacFarland (Reid) makes a bet with two of his friends that, having committed a forgery, he will be able to elude the officers of the law for one year. As his friends are very thorough, he does not find it an easy matter getting around town. He finally goes to a small town in the west where he lives unmolested for eleven months. On a hunting expedition he meets Dolly Kamman (Little), daughter of Sheriff Kamman (Beery), who takes George to meet her father. As Dolly has fallen in love with George's photograph, he is a somewhat privileged prisoner. On the day the bet is off George hears that his friends have drowned and he is sure he is to be sent to Sing Sing. The arrival of the boys, however, changes things, and in addition to being set free George wins Dolly.

####The Best People####
As described in a review in a film magazine, Mrs. Lenox (Williams) is marrying her daughter Miriam (Morris) to the scion of another "best family," but the girl prefers their chauffeur, who has red blood instead of blue. Bertie Lenox (Striker) has fallen in love with an impossible chorus girl who will not marry him until he gives up his money and goes to work. Arthur Rockmere (Austin), the fiancé, has arranged a supper with Alice O'Neill (Ralston), the chorus girl, and her chum, Millie Montgomery (Livingston), also of the chorus, with the idea of buying Alice off. Bertie resents this private-room affair. There is a sidewalk fight outside the supper club that lands most of them in the police station, where Millie bails them out with the money Bertie's father has given her to enlist her aid in breaking off the distasteful match, and they all roll home in a taxi the next morning. The children get their hearts' delights, and Millie lands Bertie's Uncle Throckmorton (Steers), a self-constituted social arbiter, who richly deserves his fate — and seems to enjoy it.

####Betsy's Wedding####
Eddie Hopper is a construction contractor from Long Island, New York, with two grown daughters. One of them, Betsy, is about to be married.

Money is tight in the Hopper household, but Eddie, much to the distress of his wife, Lola, decides that it is important to throw a lavish wedding to impress the well-off family of the man Betsy is to marry. Everyone in the family is throwing advice Eddie's way, even the ghost of his father.

A new house Eddie is building is adding to his financial and emotional woes. In desperation, he turns to his crooked brother-in-law, Oscar, who ends up getting Eddie involved with loan sharks. A young man named Stevie Dee is sent to keep an eye on Eddie, but instead turns his gaze to Connie Hopper, who is not only a police officer but the bride's sister.

Betsy's wedding ultimately goes on as scheduled, but is disrupted by a torrential downpour of rain.

####Better Off Dead####
In the town of Greendaleefn|name="Greendale"|The “Greendale” in the film is fictional. There is an unincorporated community in Yolo County in Northern California called “Greendale”; the real-life Greendale is not the setting for the film. in Northern California, high school student Lane Myer's two main interests are skiing and his girlfriend of six months, Beth Truss. Shortly before Christmas, Beth dumps Lane for the handsome and popular captain of the ski team, Roy Stalin. Roy is an arrogant bully who unfairly rejects Lane at ski team tryouts. Beth also criticizes Lane's car, an old station wagon. Although Lane also owns a 1967 Camaro, he has not been able to get it running and it sits in the driveway in a dilapidated state.

Lane lives in a suburban development with his mother, Jenny, a ditzy housewife who routinely concocts creepy (and creeping) family meals; his genius little brother, Badger, who never speaks but at the age of "almost 8" can build powerful lasers and attract trashy women from "How-to" books; and his lawyer father, Al, who daily tries to stop the menacing paperboy, Johnny Gasparini, from breaking his garage door windows with thrown newspapers. Furthermore, Johnny claims that the Myers owe him two dollars for newspapers, and persistently hounds Lane, yelling "I want my two dollars!" Lane also regularly encounters two Korean drag racers, one of whom learned to speak English by listening to Howard Cosell.

Lane cannot get past Beth's rejection and decides that death is the only way out of his misery. He makes several half-hearted attempts at suicide, which all comically fail. With the help of his best friend, Charles de Mar (who in lieu of not being able to get "real drugs" in their "bodaciously small town," constantly inhales everyday substances like Jell-O, snow, and nitrous oxide from a whipped cream can), Lane tries to ski the K-12, the highest peak in town, in hopes of getting Beth back, but wipes out. Lane is further embarrassed when he gets fired from his humiliating fast food job at Pig Burgers in front of Roy and Beth, who are there on a date. To top it all, he increasingly begins to suffer from neurotic hallucinations owing to the mounting frustrations in his life.

As Lane attempts to either end his life or win back his ex-girlfriend, he gradually gets to know a new girl: a French foreign-exchange student named Monique Junot, who has a crush on him. She is staying with Lane's overbearing neighbor Mrs. Smith, who continually tries to force Monique into being a girlfriend for her socially awkward son Ricky.  The pair are so annoying that she pretends she cannot speak English.  Monique, a Los Angeles Dodgers fan, turns out to be an excellent auto mechanic and skier who helps Lane fix his Camaro and tries to build his confidence. When Roy insults Monique, Lane challenges him to a ski race down the K-12, with the winner to be captain of the ski team. Monique helps Lane prepare for the race, which he ultimately wins despite losing a ski and being pursued by Johnny. Beth rushes to embrace Lane at the finish line, but he rejects her and after besting Ricky (who attempts to keep Lane from rescuing Monique from the restraints of his mother) in a ski-pole swordfight, drives off with Monique in his Camaro. Lane and Monique are last seen kissing on home plate at Dodger Stadium, with Johnny bicycling towards them, while in a mid-credit scene Badger launches a homemade space shuttle from his room through the roof of the house.

####Bewitched####
Jack Wyatt is a narcissistic actor who is approached to play the role of Darrin in a remake of the 1960s sitcom "Bewitched", but insists that an unknown play Samantha. Isabel Bigelow is an actual witch who decides she wants to be normal and moves to Los Angeles to start a new life and becomes friends with her neighbor Maria. She goes to a bookstore to learn how to get a job after seeing an advertisement of Ed McMahon on television. Jack happens to be at the same bookstore after attending some failed Samantha auditions. Jack spots Isabel and persuades her to audition. At the same time, while she's trying to settle into her new life, Isabel's intrusive father Nigel keeps appearing to convince her to return home, despite several rejections from Isabel.

After Isabel impresses the show's producers and writers, Jack finally convinces Isabel to join the show. Also joining the show is legendary actress Iris Smythson as Endora. After a successful taping of the pilot, Isabel happens to overhear a conversation Jack is having with his agent Ritchie. They are talking about how they tricked Isabel to appear without having any lines. Furious, Isabel storms off with Maria and new neighbor friend Nina close behind. She decides she only has three choices: quit, get mad, or live with it. Instead, Isabel's Aunt Clara visits and aids Isabel in casting a spell on Jack in order to make him fall in love with her. At the same time, Nigel is introduced to Iris and becomes infatuated with her.

The hex works and Jack becomes love struck by Isabel, insisting on several script changes to give her some dialogue and jokes, ignoring statements from test groups preferring Isabel over him. Jack's affection for Isabel grows and he asks her out on a date, making Isabel forget about the hex. But when he brings her home, she remembers and reverses it back to when she and Aunt Clara cast it. The next day, rather than the events the hex presented, Jack is outraged by the scores he received and takes his anger out on Isabel, who lashes back at him. Ritchie fires her, and she storms off.

Rather than be angry at her, Jack is fascinated with Isabel and chases after her, accepting all her comments. After another taping (with Isabel getting dialogue), their romance blossoms. But the next day, Jack's former wife Sheila arrives, determined to woo Jack back. Isabel sees this and casts a spell on her making her sign the divorce papers and have her decide to move to Iceland. Jack, thrilled, announces he will be throwing a party at his house celebrating the divorce.

Nigel attends the party with Iris and when Nigel begins flirting with much younger guests, Iris reveals that she is also a witch and casts a spell on each girl. When Jack makes a toast stating truth will be revealed with everyone, Isabel decides to tell Jack she's a witch. At first, thinking she's simply an amateur magician, Jack finally believes her when she levitates him with her broom. Jack becomes frightened and shoos her away with a stick. Offended and heartbroken, Isabel flies off.

Jack takes this hard, being brought to the studios by the police and becoming disenchanted with the project. Isabel decides to return home as she no longer wishes to stay. Jack, imagining himself on the "Conan O'Brien Show", is visited by Uncle Arthur. Arthur convinces Jack not to let Isabel leave, because Jack still loves her and wouldn't be able to return for 100 years (which is later proven to be a lie Arthur made up to inspire Jack). Arthur drives him to the studio where he finds Isabel at the set. Jack apologizes to her and tells her he wants to marry her. Six months later, they do get married and move into their new neighborhood (which resembles the neighborhood in the series, with the Kravitzes living right across the street).

####The Big Pond####
During a vacation in Venice, Barbara Billings (Claudette Colbert), daughter of a prominent American chewing gum magnate, falls in love with Pierre Mirande (Maurice Chevalier), a French tour guide from a noble family that lost its fortune during World War I.  Pierre loves Barbara in return and sings to her that "You Brought a New Kind of Love to Me". Although Barbara's mother (Marion Ballou) likes Pierre, her father (George Barbier) and her fiancé Ronnie (Frank Lyon) see him as a fortune-hunting foreigner.  In order to get rid of him, Barbara's father decides to give him a job doing the hardest work at his factory across the "big pond" in New York City.

Despite doing tough work, Pierre genuinely enjoys his job, impressing his coworker (Nat Pendleton). He also captivates his landlady (Andrée Corday) and her young helper (Elaine Koch) with his Parisian charm and humor. Unfortunately, Pierre becomes exhausted from his work and falls asleep on the night that he is to attend Barbara's party. He is then fired when he is wrongly accused of spilling illicit rum on chewing gum samples.  However, the incident inspires him to devise a new product for the company – rum-flavored chewing gum. The product is a success. He wins back his job and finds favor with Barbara's father, who promotes him.

Although Pierre hopes to use his new position to marry Barbara, he neglects his relationship with her in the process. While he plans to open a new branch of the company in Cleveland and to adopt "You Brought a New Kind of Love" as a new sales jingle, a frustrated Barbara declares that she will marry Ronnie instead.  However, Pierre whisks her away in a speedboat and the two reconcile and embrace.

####The Big Sick####
Kumail is an Uber driver and struggling stand-up comedian in Chicago. His parents are first-generation immigrants from Pakistan, who live outside the city. One evening, after performing at the local comedy club, Kumail sleeps with a graduate student from the University of Chicago called Emily. He drives her home and they agree not to meet again.

Kumail visits his family over the weekend, where his mother tries to set him up for an arranged marriage. Kumail is not interested but plays along. Meanwhile, Kumail and Emily keep hooking up and eventually start dating. Emily confesses to him her past divorce, then reveals she feels strongly about him. Kumail, however, dodges any requests to meet her parents. When she finds out that he has been seeing other women for potential marriage, she breaks up with him.

Kumail moves on, focusing on stand-up and securing an audition for the Montreal Comedy Festival. One night, he is informed that Emily has been admitted to the hospital. He goes to drive her home, but is pressured by doctors into giving permission to place Emily into an induced coma for treatment. Kumail signs the medical release, then informs Emily's parents in North Carolina.

Terry and Beth arrive the next day. They are hostile to Kumail for his break-up with Emily, but Terry allows Kumail to continue visiting. Emily undergoes surgery for a rapidly-spreading infection, but fails to stabilize. Doctors are unable to diagnose her illness, and Beth ponders moving her to a better hospital.

Distracted with Emily's condition, Kumail ignores his parents' continued demands about marriage. He tells them about Emily and they refuse to speak with him. Meanwhile, Emily's infection grows unchecked. Kumail learns that she could die, causing him to fail his Montreal audition.

The next morning, Emily's health suddenly improves and she is brought out of the coma. Terry and Beth, who have grown to like Kumail during this time, ask him to visit. Emily is diagnosed with a rare adult-onset Still's disease. She will fully recover but has lower inhibitions, and throws Kumail out when he arrives to see her. At a party celebrating her recovery, Kumail asks Emily to get back together but she refuses.

Emily later watches a video of Kumail's Montreal audition. She realizes the extent of his efforts to keep seeing her despite family pressure, and visits him at the local theatre. Kumail informs that he is moving to New York City to pursue stand-up. Emily is disappointed but wishes him luck.

Kumail starts to patch his relationship with his family before leaving Chicago. In NYC, he performs at a local club and is heckled, albeit encouragingly, by a female audience member. He turns to see that it is Emily, and she hints that she is there to meet him.

####Big Stone Gap####
In 1978, 40-year-old independent woman Ave Maria Mulligan owns her dead father's pharmacy in her hometown of Big Stone Gap, Virginia. Ave's mother, an immigrant from Italy, is the town seamstress. Ave is heavily involved in her community, home delivering medications to the country folk, volunteering on the coal mining town's Emergency Response Team, and directing the town's annual production of "Trail of the Lonesome Pine", based on the novel by John Fox Jr. Ave delivers medications to Nan McChesney and is pleased to see Nan's son Jack, a local coal miner and a former schoolmate.  Jack tries to make small talk, but Ave leaves when Nan tells her that 40 is not too old to still have children.

Spec Broadwater, the town's lawyer and Ave's friend, brings news that her momma has died.  At the graveside Fleeta Mullins, Ave's outspoken friend and pharmacy worker, chastises Ave for placing a rose on her father's grave, remarking how badly he had treated Ave.

Ave is shocked when her momma's will has a photo of her real father, who still lives in Italy. Her momma fled to America when she became pregnant. She met and married Fred Mulligan, who knew she was pregnant and never much liked Ave.

At the pharmacy, some popular teenage girl customers direct rude comments at Pearl Grimes, a poor teenager who is a Melungeon.  Ave embarrasses the brats then offers Pearl a job at the pharmacy.

During the cast after-party for “Lonesome Pine”, it is announced that senatorial hopeful John Warner will make a campaign stop in town with his wife, Elizabeth Taylor, and Theodore will plan the event. He's so happy he kisses Ave in front of everyone then leads her away.  They spend an awkward night together, with a stilted goodbye the next morning.

Ave helps deal with an explosion at the mine, worrying about Jack until finding him safe at the hospital. He accepts her offer of a lift home but Sweet Sue arrives and jumps into his arms, shrugging off Ave.

Ave stumbles across old love letters between her momma and her real father, causing Ave's best friend, town librarian and local romantic Iva Lou, to confront her about non-existent love life.  Meanwhile, Jack's mother confronts him about Sweet Sue, whom she dislikes. Jack admits he wants the love that his parents had, does not love Sue but does care for her two young boys.

Jack finally approaches Ave.  They take an evening walk and he tells her that he broke up with Sue, as he has always had a crush on the little Italian girl that sat beside him in elementary school. He tells her that they ought to get married. Ave storms off, offended that he doesn't even think she's worth being courted.

The day of the John Warner Campaign visit turns into chaos. Ms. Taylor chokes on a chicken bone while Ave learns that Jack got engaged to Sweet Sue. When Ave gets home from the campaign disaster, her father's sister (Aunt Alice) is waiting, calling Ave a bastard and announcing she is taking Ave to court for the house and the pharmacy.

Theodore tells Ave that he's been offered the band director's job at University of Tennessee and they should break up for multiple reasons.  Ave quietly includes the fact that he likes men, to which he agrees.

Jack's mom confronts Ave, desperate for her help because Sweet Sue is planning on marrying Jack within weeks. Ave collapses, suffering a nervous breakdown.

Ave sleeps for days. In an act of desperation, Iva Lou has Pearl confront Jack, asking him to help bring Ave out of her sleep, telling him they are meant for each other. Late that night, Jack sneaks in and checks on Ave. He takes one of Ave's father's letters, kisses her on the forehead and leaves.

When Ave finally awakes, she announces that she saw her father in her dreams and she's got to go find him. Spec advises her to take everything out of her name so no one can take it away while she's gone.

Ave surprises Pearl and her mother, Leah Grimes, by selling Pearl the pharmacy for a dollar.  Ave then gives Fleeta a huge raise, telling her how important she is to her and how important she will be in teaching Pearl to run the pharmacy.

Iva Lou announces that she is marrying her boyfriend, Lyle, and asks Ave to be her Maid of Honor. The couple are so drunk at the altar that Ave and Jack have to hold them up while the preacher quickly pronounces them married. Aunt Alice and Uncle Wayne barge into the reception, furious about the pharmacy and stating that Ave won't be giving away the family home. Ave then announces that she's giving Pearl the house too, which leads to Aunt Alice yelling racist comments about Pearl. The crowd chases Aunt Alice away, chimes in their dislike of her, many mentioning their own Melungeon blood.

Ave learns from Sweet Sue that she has reconciled with her husband during Ave's "mental collapse." Jack gives Ave a book about the town in the Italian Alps where her father lives.

Ave leaves her Cadillac in Aunt Alice's front yard, with a note and the keys.

Ave's last day in Big Stone Gap, Theodore takes her to the Outdoor Theater, where all her friends are gathered on stage.  They surprise her with her poppa from Italy and then her momma's sister, Maria. Her poppa explains that Jack found them and paid for their flights, having sold his truck. Theodore has the theater choir sing a song with Aunt Maria, while Jack's voiceover explains that he and Ave married and had two children.

####Bigger Than the Sky####
After being rejected by his girlfriend, Peter Rooker, an art-department employee in Portland, Oregon, decides to audition for a small role in an upcoming local community theatre's production of "Cyrano de Bergerac". Despite the fact that Peter has no experience or skill as an actor, the director casts Peter as Cyrano, as the lead. Peter soon becomes caught up in the various intrigues of the "theater people", including the charming but mercurial Michael Degan, the beautiful leading lady Grace Hargrove, and a cast of other eccentric players. Gradually, Peter discovers that in the world of theater, the normal rules do not apply, but in the end, everyone has a role. As Peter struggles with his acting,  clearly he is not going to be ready for opening night.

An experienced, but universally disliked actor, Ken Zorbell, is brought in to play Cyrano. Realizing the writing is on the wall, Peter asks the director to let him relinquish the role and take another role as a background character. On opening night, the lead has not appeared, and the director asks Peter, who has never rehearsed the role, to play Cyrano. At first, he declines, but then realizing it is his dream, he plays Cyrano with great success.

####Billy Rose's Jumbo####
The Wonder Circus comes to a town in the Midwest with its featured attraction, Jumbo the elephant. Pop Wonder owns the circus, but his continued gambling losses in crap games leaves him (and the circus) with an ever-growing number of IOUs.

His daughter, Kitty Wonder, hires a newcomer, Sam Rawlins, as both a performer and tent hand. She is unaware that Sam is the son of circus mogul John Noble, whose ambition is to buy the Wonder Circus for himself. Noble has been quietly buying up the IOUs with Sam's help and abruptly takes control of the family's business, leaving the Wonders without a show.

Kitty, Pop and his longtime fiancée Lulu go off on their own, forming a traveling carnival, but it isn't quite the same. Sam, however, has fallen in love with Kitty and has a guilty conscience about what he has done. Sam splits from his father and rejoins the Wonders, bringing with him an old friend of theirs, Jumbo.

####Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss####
Midwest native Billy Collier is an aspiring photographer in Los Angeles, who has had little artistic success and much romantic frustration. While out to coffee with his roommate Georgiana, he comes up with the idea of recreating iconic screen kisses from Hollywood movies. That night at a party, Billy's friend Perry agrees to finance the project. Billy serendipitously runs into their coffee waiter Gabriel, whom he recruits to model.

Billy becomes infatuated with Gabriel, but cannot figure out if Gabriel is really straight. Gabriel claims he has a girlfriend in San Francisco, but sends ambiguous signals. At Perry's invitation, the two attend an exhibit by photographer Rex Webster, who tries to poach Gabriel as a model (and potential trick). Webster offers to take Gabriel to Catalina Island for an underwear ad shoot, sparking Billy's jealousy. Back at Gabriel's place, Billy and Gabriel seem to be getting closer but their rapport is interrupted by a phone call from Gabriel's girlfriend Natalie.

Billy shoots his first setup with Gabriel, a recreation of Burt Lancaster and Deborah Kerr's kiss on the beach in "From Here to Eternity". Following the shoot, Gabriel tells Billy that his relationship with Natalie is over. Billy mentions the Kinsey scale, on which Billy describes himself as a "perfect six," but Gabriel admits he does not know where on the scale he falls. Back at Billy's apartment, they continue to talk and drink and Gabriel asks if he can spend the night on the couch. Billy suggests that Gabriel sleep in his bed (ostensibly because of Gabriel's height), to which Gabriel eventually agrees. When the two are in bed, Billy makes tentative overtures, to which Gabriel seems to respond initially; however, Gabriel suddenly pulls away, after which Billy apologizes and gets up to sleep on the couch.

Gabriel gets the underwear modeling job and goes to Catalina. Billy follows after him to Catalina with Georgiana, who is on the rebound from a tumultuous relationship with her boyfriend Andrew. On the island, she hooks up with drug-addled island resident "Gundy". Billy crashes Rex Webster's underwear shoot looking for Gabriel, but does not find him. He eventually tracks him down later that night at Rex's party, and they talk on the beach.

Billy relates to Gabriel how confused he was when he came out, saying, "I swore to myself that if I could ever be there for somebody, I would, so that that person wouldn't have to go through all the shit I went through. What I'm trying to say is, if you're having problems figuring out where you stand, even if you're not sure of what you're supposed to want-" Abruptly, however, before Billy can finish, one of Gabriel's fellow male models walks up to them. Billy instantly realizes that the two of them are in some kind of relationship with each other, and though Gabriel tries to soften the blow, a humiliated and hurt Billy rebuffs him. Perry later consoles Billy by telling him that he, too, had fallen for someone who did not return his affections; he confesses that man to be Billy. The next morning, Georgiana has ditched Gundy, and both she and Billy head back home.

The movie ends with the opening of Billy's "Hollywood Screen Kiss" series exhibition in Los Angeles, which includes his photos of Gabriel. The exhibit appears to be very successful, and Billy receives many congratulations from various visitors. Perry shows Billy a magazine with an underwear ad featuring Gabriel and suggests that Billy give him a call, but he decides against it. Towards the end of the night, Billy meets a handsome young man, Joshua, who enthusiastically admires Billy's work. It is suggested that along with his newfound artistic success, Billy may at last find romantic fulfillment as well.

####Bird on a Wire####
Marianne "Muffie" Graves, a former hippie, is a successful lawyer completing a business deal in Detroit, Michigan. At a gas station, she crosses paths with a man that looks and sounds exactly like her hippie ex-fiancé Rick Jarmin, who disappeared in a plane crash 15 years previously and is presumed dead.

The man pretends to be a Vietnam War veteran and Marianne apologizes, says that Rick would never have served in that war, and then leaves. The terrified man then makes a call saying that he has been recognized and needs to be moved.

15 years earlier, Rick testified against murderous drug-smuggling DEA agent Eugene Sorenson and has been in the witness protection program ever since. Unfortunately, his old handler has retired and the new one, FBI agent Joe Weyburn, is being blackmailed into colluding with Sorenson. Promising to have Rick moved immediately, Weyburn leaks the gas station's address to Sorenson.

Meanwhile, Sorenson has been released on parole; his partner, Albert "Diggs" Diggins, picks him up and they set out to kill Rick for revenge and to smooth the passage of their new dealings with the Colombian drug cartels.

Marianne returns to confront Rick just as Diggs and Sorenson show up at the gas station with shotguns blazing. During the gunfight, Rick gets buckshot in his buttocks and his kindly old boss is killed. Marianne escapes with Rick, but Sorenson and Diggs pin the gas station owner's murder on Rick. They are forced to go on the run as Weyburn wipes out Rick's file and sends police to catch them.

To clear their names, Rick needs to reach his old handler. They use contacts from his former life-in-hiding, including at a beauty salon where he was pretending to be an effeminate gay man and was the star hairdresser, and an old flame, a veterinarian who removes the buckshot.

During a night spent in a hotel room, Rick tells Marianne everything that happened 15 years ago. They share their feelings and have passionate sex.

Reaching the home of his old handler, they find out he has Alzheimer's and thus doesn't remember Rick. Sorenson, Diggs and Weyburn show up, so Rick and Marianne retreat to a nearby zoo where Rick once worked. He releases animals from their cages to assist in their defense, and Diggs is mauled to death by a lion, while Weyburn is eaten by piranhas.

Sorenson winds up electrocuted. Wounded, Rick winds up suspended over a tiger in a pit, requiring Marianne to save him. When she is not quite able to reach him, he offers her the extra incentive of marriage and children, which does the trick. They are then seen boating into the sunset in the Caribbean.

####The Birds and the Bees####
George "Hotsy" Hamilton (George Gobel), a very eligible but naive vegetarian heir to a meat-packing fortune, returns home to Connecticut by luxury cruise ship, accompanied by Marty Kennedy (Harry Bellaver), his valet, guardian and best friend, after spending three years together on a scientific expedition in the Belgian Congo looking for a rare snake.  On board, the woman-shy George attracts a lot of attention from the opposite sex, despite being the consummate milquetoast, but the one he cannot avoid is Jean Harris (Mitzi Gaynor), a beautiful con artist travelling with her equally larcenous father, Colonel Patrick Henry "Handsome Harry" Harris (David Niven), and his partner-in-crime Gerald (Reginald Gardiner).

The three con artists are out to fleece George of a small fortune, but even the best-laid plans can go astray. First, Jean falls hard for George and shields him from her card sharp father. Then, when Marty discovers the truth about her and her father and tells George about them, he dumps her.  Furious at being scorned, she re-enters his life masquerading as the posh "Countess Louise", the cousin of "Jacques Duc de Montaigne" (Hans Conreid), who is actually Frenchie, another con man who is swindling the rich folks of Connecticut. Jean is determined to get back at George, so she sets out to seduce him, again.

George's domineering father (Fred Clark) throws a party in honor of the visiting French royalty, and George is completely taken in by Jean's masquerade. Soon her hapless victim is so confused and bothered he does not know which way is up, but, in the end, after all the twists and turns, deceptions and lies, true love wins out.

####The Bishop's Wife####
Bishop Henry Brougham (David Niven), troubled with funding the building of a new cathedral, prays for divine guidance. His plea is seemingly answered by a suave angel named Dudley (Cary Grant), who reveals his identity only to the clergyman.

However, Dudley's mission is not to help construct a cathedral, but to spiritually guide Henry and the people around him. Henry has become obsessed with raising funds, to the detriment of his family life. His relationships with wife Julia (Loretta Young) and their young daughter Debby (Karolyn Grimes) are strained by his focus on the cathedral.

Everyone, except for Henry, is charmed by Dudley, even the non-religious Professor Wutheridge (Monty Woolley). When Dudley spends time cheering up Julia, though, an unexpected development occurs: he finds himself strongly attracted to her. Sensing this, Henry becomes jealous and anxious for his now unwelcome guest to finish and depart. He reveals Dudley's true identity to Professor Wutheridge, who urges him to stand up and fight for the woman he loves.

Dudley persuades a wealthy parishioner, the widowed Agnes Hamilton (Gladys Cooper), to contribute her much needed funds, but not to build the cathedral as Henry had hoped. Instead, he coaxes Mrs. Hamilton to donate her money to feed and clothe the needy, much to Henry's chagrin.

On several occasions throughout the film, Dudley reveals himself to viewers as an angel. He helps Julia and Sylvester (a taxi driver) ice skate like pros, redecorates the Broughams' Christmas tree in a few seconds, saves an old church by restoring interest in the boys' choir, dictates to a typewriter to magically produce Henry's new sermon—without Henry's knowledge—among other small things.

As the climax to the movie approaches, Dudley hints to Julia his willingness to stay with her and not move on to his next assignment. Although Julia doesn't fully understand what he's talking about, she senses what he means, and tells him it is time for him to leave. Dudley tells the bishop it is rare for an angel to envy a mortal. When Henry wants to know why his cathedral plans were derailed, Dudley reminds the Bishop that he had prayed for guidance, not a building.

With his mission completed and knowing that Julia loves her husband, Dudley leaves, promising never to return. All memory of him is erased, and later that Christmas Eve at midnight, Henry delivers the sermon he believes he has written. Dudley observes from the street, satisfied that his work is done.

####Blast from the Past####
In 1962, eccentric American scientist Dr. Calvin Webber believes nuclear war with the Soviet Union is imminent, and builds a secret fallout shelter beneath his backyard. Alarmed by the Cuban Missile Crisis, Calvin takes his pregnant wife Helen into the shelter; when an unexpected mechanical failure aboard an F-86 Sabre causes the aircraft to crash into the house above, Calvin assumes the worst and activates the shelter’s time-locks for 35 years. With the house completely destroyed by the crash, the Webbers' neighbors and authorities assume they were killed, and their property is left abandoned.

Helen gives birth to Adam, who is educated to a high standard by his father (including becoming fluent in several languages), and grows up on 1950s-era pop culture like "I Love Lucy" and "The Honeymooners", and pop standards by Perry Como and Dean Martin. Above ground, a diner opens in 1965, where Melker works for Mom as a soda jerk. The diner becomes a pizzeria, then a punk club named Purgatory, as the suburban neighborhood deteriorates over the decades into an inner city ghetto. By 1995, Melker is an alcoholic living in the diner's condemned remains.

When the shelter unlocks in 1997, Calvin mistakes the now-blighted neighborhood for a post-apocalyptic wasteland of irradiated mutants, and decides the family must stay underground, over the objections of Helen, who, unlike Calvin (who enjoys the seclusion) and Adam (who knows nothing else), has never taken to living in the shelter. With supplies running out and Calvin falling ill, Adam leaves the shelter for the first time. He meets Melker, who had encountered Calvin the previous night, bursting through the floor in his radiation suit. Melker immediately begins to worship Adam as a god. Marveling at the outside world, Adam purchases supplies, but then cannot remember his way back to the elevator.

Trying to sell his father's classic baseball cards at a hobby shop, Adam meets Eve Rustikov, who stops the store owner from cheating Adam and is fired. Eve drives Adam to a Holiday Inn in exchange for a rare card, but returns the next morning out of guilt. Adam asks her to help purchase supplies. Unaware of the value of money, Adam agrees to her request for $1,000 a week, while also asking Eve to help him find a wife  who is "not a mutant" and is from Pasadena, California, per his mother's advice. Adam meets Eve's gay housemate and best friend Troy, who provides him with advice and a fashion makeover.

Eve and Troy take Adam to a 1940s swing-style nightclub to find him a wife. Adam attracts the attention of several women, including Eve's nemesis Sophie. Jealous, Eve reconnects with her ex-boyfriend Cliff, who goads Adam into an altercation, relenting when Adam demonstrates his boxing skills, having trained every day with his father. Eve leaves. Troy returns home and explains Adam went home with Sophie. Adam returns, explaining that he politely rejected Sophie's advances, as he could only think about Eve. He and Eve kiss, but when Adam admits the truth about his past and his desire to take her to be his wife "underground", she asks him to leave.

Finding the pub, where Melker preaches to a full congregation, Adam returns to Eve's house, where she is waiting with Dr. Nina Aron and her assistant to have him committed. Initially cooperating, Adam escapes asking Eve and Troy to collect his things and pay his hotel bill. In his hotel room, Troy and Eve find toiletries and clothing from the 1960s and absurdly valuable stock certificates in companies like IBM (which Calvin had written off as "worthless"), and deduce that Adam is not crazy and was telling the truth the whole time.

As Melker and his cult load supplies into the shelter, Calvin prepares to seal his family inside again. Eve spots Adam outside the pub; they embrace, and Adam takes her to meet his parents. Impressed with Eve, Calvin and Helen agree to set the shelter's locks for two months while Adam and Eve make arrangements.

During this time, Adam and Eve sell the stocks to build his parents a new home in the country, identical to their house that was destroyed, and purchase and restore a red 1960 Cadillac convertible. They help Melker rebuild the pub into a '50s-themed nightclub after convincing him that Adam is not God.

Adam reveals there was never an atomic war, the "bomb" was not a bomb and instead was a plane that had crashed into their house,  and that the Soviet Union collapsed peacefully, ending the Cold War. Unconvinced, Calvin plans to build a new fallout shelter as Eve watches while playing with her engagement ring.

####Blended####
Divorced Lauren Reynolds goes on a blind date with widower Jim Friedman at Hooters; it goes poorly. Lauren and Jim run into each other while on errands to the pharmacy, and the cashier mistakenly switches their credit cards. Jim goes to Lauren's house to switch the credit cards back. Jen is at Lauren's house and has broken up with her boyfriend Dick, Jim's boss, although she and Dick had already paid for a trip to Africa. Lauren commits to using Jen's portion of the vacation package without knowing that Jim intends to use Dick's as well and that the hotel accommodation is for a romantic suite.

The families are put together for a "blended familymoon", where they get together with other couples, including the oversexed Eddy and Ginger. Eddy's new bride is quite his junior, to the chagrin of their teenage son Jake, on whom Jim's oldest daughter Hilary develops a crush at first sight. The kids make an awkward impression with each other, with Brendan calling his mother "hot," and the others not knowing how to react to Espen acting like her mother is there with her, as she is not ready to let go of her yet. Over time the kids begin to bond with each other and each other's parent.

Jim bonds with the boys, helping them with adventurous sports, while Lauren bonds with the girls, helping Hilary to change her tomboyish look into a more feminine one, leading to Jake becoming her boyfriend. As they become closer to their children, Jim and Lauren begin to warm up to each other. They inadvertently get together for a couples' massage and have fun with each other. When Lou asks Lauren to put her to bed, Lauren sings her "Over the Rainbow," which, unknown to her, was the song Lou's mother used to sing. The other girls pretend to sleep, while discovering how much they truly love Lauren. She returns this feeling when she maternally kisses each girl's forehead as she says goodnight. Jim starts to experience deeper feelings for Lauren.

On the last night of the trip, Lauren puts on a black dress that she admired earlier. She wears it that evening and receives admiration from everyone. Jim and Lauren are sat down for a romantic dinner, which Lauren soon discovers was actually planned by Jim specifically for her. They chat briefly about basic parenting techniques and then pull in for a kiss; however, at the last second, Jim pulls away, apologizing and explaining that he "can't do it".

After returning to America, Jim realizes he misses Lauren and that he has fallen in love with her, which he admits to his daughters who are ecstatic with the news. Although Espen is not fully ready to move on from her mother's death, she also does not want her family to lose Lauren. She tells her father that her mother said that she had other things to do in Heaven, and would not be around as much. At the kids' behest, Jim goes to Lauren's house to give her flowers, only to find her ex-husband Mark there. Tyler gets excited to see Jim and wants to play ball; Mark bullies Jim into leaving, then ditches Tyler to answer a summons from work. Mark tries to make a move on Lauren, but she refuses his advances because of his continuous failure to be a good father, in addition to his having an affair during their marriage.

Lauren and Brendan go to support Tyler at his next baseball game, along with Jen and Dick, whom Jen has worked things out with, and his five kids. Mark does not come to the game. Jim and his daughters arrive to show encouragement, inspiring Tyler to hit the ball as Jim had taught him in Africa. Jim then finds Lauren and they admit to wanting to be together, and they kiss, to the happiness of their kids, who know that they are already a blended family.

####Blind Date####
Walter Davis (Bruce Willis) allows his brother, Ted (Phil Hartman), to set him up on a blind date with Ted's wife's cousin, Nadia (Kim Basinger).

Nadia is shy and the two experience some awkwardness. However, as the evening goes on, Nadia begins to drink and behave in a wild manner. (A warning about her behavior under the influence of alcohol had been given by Ted's wife, but when Ted relayed the warning to Walter, he made it sound like a joke and strongly hinted that Walter might actually benefit from giving her alcohol.)

To make matters worse, Nadia's jealous ex-boyfriend, David (John Larroquette), shows up and exacerbates the situation by stalking the couple all night, assaulting Walter several times, even ramming Walter's car with his own.

Walter ends up being driven insane by Nadia's mishaps and David's pursuit; she gets him fired at the dinner; his car is destroyed; after wreaking havoc at a party, Walter gets arrested for menacing David with a mugger's revolver. He even forces David to do a moonwalk before firing at the frightened man's feet.

Nadia posts $10,000 in bail and agrees to marry David if he will help Walter avoid prison time. Before the wedding, Walter gives Nadia chocolates filled with brandy and attempts to sabotage the marriage. Chaos ensues.

In the end, Nadia humiliates David by rejecting him to the delight of their guests as she and Walter decide to give their relationship another shot.  The final scene shows Nadia and Walter on their honeymoon on a beach, with a two-liter bottle of Coca-Cola chilling instead of champagne.

####Blind Dating####
Danny Valddesechi (Chris Pine) is an intelligent, handsome, charming boy who happens to be blind. Having been blind from birth, he volunteers for a risky experimental visual prosthesis that may restore his sight—having a microchip installed in the visual cortex of his brain that connects to a camera that would give him only, at best, fuzzy black and white images. During the tests he meets a beautiful Indian nurse, Leeza (Anjali Jay). Meanwhile, because Danny is a virgin at 22, his brother Larry (Eddie Kaye Thomas), who runs a limousine service, gets him a string of hilariously disastrous blind dates in between rentals. When Danny finally realizes that he is falling for Leeza, she tells him she cannot see him anymore because she has been promised in an arranged marriage. Believing that Leeza did not pursue their relationship because of his being blind, Danny becomes depressed and stops taking the necessary tests for his brain surgery. Danny's family, his eccentric psychotherapist Dr. Evans (Jane Seymour) and eye doctor Dr. Perkins (Stephen Tobolowsky) advise him to continue because it is his only chance of seeing, and soon Danny is successfully operated on. He sees his family's faces for the first time, but not Leeza's, who was away, reluctantly preparing for her engagement party. Soon the experiment proves to be a failure, as the fragile prosthesis in his brain moves, clouding his already weak vision, and Danny goes back to being blind. Realizing that he really loves Leeza, he bursts into the engagement party, professing his love for her and saying "Love is how you speak to me. Love is how you touch me...and guide me showing me the way to go. And when we kiss, when we kiss, it moves me to my soul." The couple kiss. At this the marriage is called off and Danny and Leeza start over, learning more about each other's family and culture.

####Blond Cheat####
Michael Ashburn (Derrick De Marney) is the chief assistant to Rufus Trent (Cecil Kellaway), a wealthy London loan broker. Michael is socially prominent, but works for a living. He is engaged to Trent's daughter, Roberta (Lilian Bond). The match had been engineered primarily by the socially-ambitious Mrs. Trent (Cecil Cunningham).

As Michael is closing the shop late one afternoon, a man named Douglas (Olaf Hytten) takes out a large loan, using earrings worn by his niece, Julie (Joan Fontaine), as a deposit. He scurries right off with the money but, to his dismay, Michael finds that the earrings are fastened to Julie's ears and cannot be removed. He now has to keep guard of her until Douglas returns with the money.

Julie wants to go somewhere warm for the night. He hails a policeman to have her put in a jail cell so that she's kept somewhere safe, but when the cop arrives, she tricks him into arresting Michael instead. She manages to swipe Michael's house key and spends the night at his house.

The next morning, the butler finds Julie in Michael's bed. Michael arrives home with a cold after his night in jail. He doesn't realize that Julie's at his house. When Roberta arrives, angry, he calms her down, until she discovers Julie in Michael's pajamas and in his bedroom. Roberta breaks off her engagement to Michael.

Julie slips away in the confusion and arrives at a theatrical agency. Her "uncle" runs the agency and she quickly removes the earrings as he praises her night's work. In reality, Julie is an actress and, with her successful work breaking the engagement between Michael and Roberta, is offered a leading role in a new production.

Roberta arrives at home and tells her parents that the engagement is off. Trent is thrilled. It is revealed at this time that Trent hired Douglas's agency to break the engagement. At work Michael is being called to the carpet by Trent for loaning money without collateral when Mrs. Trent arrives and fixes everything so that Roberta and Michael are engaged again. Trent, upset that the wedding is still on, goes back to Douglas and tells him he won't pay until the engagement is broken for good.

Gilbert (Robert Coote), Trent's assistant, dislikes Michael. He works with Julie by bringing in a box for Michael at work. Inside are Michael's pajamas. Roberta is there when the box arrives and she isn't happy to see the contents. Michael hurries her off when he sees Julie inside the shop vault.  Michael takes Julie to her hotel room and stays with her when she pretends to be sick after her night outside.

He arrives late for dinner with Roberta and her friends. When she questions him, he admits to being with Julie, but he reassures her that Julie is very sick in bed. At that instant Julie shows up looking glamorous. Fed up, Roberta leaves, but Michael insists on staying because he has to keep an eye on the earrings.

Alone with Michael, Julie confesses that she was trying to break up his engagement on purpose that night because she didn't think he should be married simply because he comes from a prominent family. As they share a cozy ride in a carriage, Michael makes overtures to having feelings for Julie. She tries to explain about the earrings when they are held up by robbers. They want the earrings. Michael explains that they cannot be removed, but one of the robbers threatens to cut Julie's ears off to get to them. She takes the earrings off easily and gives them to the robbers.

Furious, Michael admits to being a fool. He leaves her.

Trent doesn't want to pay Douglas, so he gets a note at dinner asking Trent to meet Douglas in Julie's dressing room. Mrs. Trent follows Trent, demanding an explanation. Since Trent had finally paid up, Douglas lies and says that he had a scheme to break up Michael and Roberta's engagement, but that Trent paid him off.

The truth comes out accidentally when Julie refuses to continue with the plan. The police arrive when Michael recognizes one of the robbers—the one who threatened to cut off Julie's ears—as a waiter at the club. The waiter tells the police that Roberta paid him to rob Julie and Michael.

He breaks into Julie's show and tells her he loves her.

####Blonde Ambition####
Katie Gregerstitch and Billy are high school sweethearts from Minden, Oklahoma who are engaged to be married. An aspiring model he goes to NYC, promising to be back in six months for the wedding. On Valentine's Day, Katie's grandfather gives her a bus ticket to surprise him, but she catches him in bed with another woman.

Billy breaks off the engagement with Katie, who then goes to stay with her cousin Haley. She convinces Katie to start an independent life of her own, instead of sitting around doing nothing. One day, when Haley has an audition, Katie takes over her job as a messenger.

When Katie makes a delivery to a large building construction company, the deputy director Debra sees the naive girl and befriends her. She preys on Richard's job as CEO and has come up with a plan to frame him for sabotage to take over the company. To aid herself with that, she and her assistant Freddy make sure that Richard’s secretary gets dismissed and that the naive Katie takes her place.

Debra takes Katie to give her a makeover. With a more professional appearance, and an embellished resumè, Katie gets hired by Richard Connolley. Katie meanwhile meets Ben, who works as a postman in the building, who befriends her.

An idea of Katie's to get a potential investor, by throwing a kids party for his kid while he sneaks off to do business is sabotaged by Debra and Freddy. They spike their juice with energy drink, slash the bouncy castle, fill the piñata with fireworks and hire male strippers dressed as cops.

After losing the contract, Katie gets fired, but she uses her charms to get a second chance from Richard. She secures the interest of a group of Norwegian investors with Ben's help, but no thanks to Freddy who tries to sabotage it.

Richard shares an important confidential marina project with Katie. Not realizing Debra's ulterior motives she manages to get the confidential information out of Katie. That evening Ben shows up at Katie's. After pizza, a dance and a kiss her grandfather gives her a surprise visit.

The next day at work, Debra ensures the Board of Directors fires Richard, using information from the report she'd weaseled out of Katie the previous day. She also discloses that Katie's resumé is padded (as Freddy had done it).

Returning to the apartment, Katie finds Billy waiting for her. She turns him away, only to have her grandfather reappear with him. As she'd never told him they had broken up, Billy pretty easily gets her to pack up to return to Minden. Just before they leave, her grandfather sets her aside, telling her Haley filled him in on Billy's infidelity, so he takes him back home.

Meanwhile, as Katie has discovered that Ben is actually Richard’s son, together with him they devise a ruse to outsmart Debra. When she proposes the project to the investors, it is actually Haley and some friends who pose as the investors. At the same time, Katie presents her own proposal to the real investors, who satisfyingly take it. When Debra discovers the deception, she flies into a rage, tries to destroy their model of it and thus gets fired.

Afterwards, Katie gets Richard reinstated and when she moves to give Ben a kiss, he deflects it. She leaves unhappy and when Richard asks why he was cold, he mentions her fiancé. Ben races after her and they finally have a second kiss.

####Blonde Fever####
Peter Donay (Philip Dorn) is the not-so-happy owner of the Café Donay, which is a fancy roadside establishment somewhere between Reno and Lake Tahoe in Nevada. His marriage is not what it should be, and he has a gambling addiction.

One day, he meets nightclub waitress Sally Murfin (Gloria Grahame), who is a lot more interested in Peter's money and business than in anything else. Peter’s wife, Delilah (Mary Astor), knows about her husband's love affair and is determined to get rid of Sally by tricking her into believing that there is no money to be had from Peter by telling Sally about the gambling and lying about the business being poor. Her plan does not work, so Delilah tries to split them up by hiring Sally’s beau Freddie Bilson (Marshall Thompson) as a waiter and letting him stay above their garage. Her plan goes to waste when Sally overhears that Peter is the winner of $40,000 in a lottery. Now Sally is more determined to lay her hands on Peter.

Sally's advances on Peter makes Freddie very jealous. Eventually, Freddie pulls a gun on Peter and threatens to shoot him. Peter confesses that he and Sally are in love and going to get married. Delilah asks Peter for a divorce, asking him for the winning lottery ticket as her settlement. Peter refuses at first, but eventually he gives in and gives her the money.

Full of regret, he then tells Sally’s friend Johnny about his mistake, and that he wants his wife back. Sally is outraged when she hears about the settlement and is more interested in Freddie, now that Delilah has bought him a new motorcycle. Sally disappears with Freddie, and Peter begs his wife Delilah for forgiveness, and gets it. It turns out she was bluffing about divorcing and leaving him all along, when her suitcase opens as they kiss and make up, revealing that it is empty.

####Blue Hawaii####
Having been released from the Army, Chadwick "Chad" Gates is eager to return to Hawaii with his surfboard, his native Hawaiian beach friends, and his mixed-race girlfriend Maile Duval. His mother, Sarah Lee, wants him to follow in his father's footsteps and take over management at the Great Southern Hawaiian Fruit Company, the family business, but Chad is reluctant and goes to work as a tour guide at his girlfriend's agency. His slightly scatter-brained boss is Mr. Chapman.

The first clients Chad has are an attractive school teacher, Abigail Prentice, and four teenage female students. One of the students, 17-year-old Ellie Corbett, seems self-centered and doesn't get along with the other three, but she becomes smitten with Chad. Chad's girlfriend, Maile, becomes jealous of Abigail, who is quite fond of Chad. After Ellie's flirtatious ways with another tourist cause a wild fight to erupt in a restaurant, Mr. Chapman fires Chad. Maile quits her job in protest. Maile and Chad independently continue guiding Abigail and the four youths, taking them to Kaua'i.

One night Ellie attempts to seduce Chad in his hotel room, but he refuses her advances; at the same moment, Maile pays a surprise visit to the hotel. Ellie despondently flees in a stolen jeep, intending to drown herself in the ocean. Before she can, Chad pulls her out, attempts to speak to her, but then decides to punish her with a spanking. In the next scene, the girls, including Ellie, are having breakfast. Ellie is now pleasant, friendly and well-mannered, and jokes about the spanking. Meanwhile, Abigail has found romance with Jack Kelman, a longtime business partner of Chad's father. With Jack's help, Chad and his father resolve their differences about Chad's future.

Chad and Maile form their own tourism business—Gates of Hawaii—and begin arrangements to provide tourist services for his father's large network of fruit salesmen in the U.S. and Canada. The film ends with Chad's and Maile's lavish outdoor wedding.

####Blue State####
John Logue, a dedicated John Kerry campaigner in the 2004 election, makes a drunken campaign vow to move to Canada if George W. Bush is re-elected. When Bush indeed wins again, John finds his employer and his friends took his public vow seriously and he can not help but stay true to his word. He meets Chloe Hamon, a reader of his blog, who wants to accompany him to Canada. On his way, they visit John's parents who are upset about his liberal views because his father is an inveterate Republican supporter. Moreover, John's brother is a soldier who fought in the Iraq War. Later, close to the Canada–United States border, Chloe reveals to John that she is a deserter who was in Iraq as a soldier and is supposed to return there.

John insists on taking Chloe to Canada although he then risks getting in trouble should she get arrested. In Canada, they are welcomed by a community of American expatriates but neither John nor Chloe really fit in there, despite the arrangement of a marriage to allow John to remain. Making a difficult decision to return, John and Chloe head for the border and an uncertain fate. When Chloe is arrested and has to go to prison, John waits for her, and upon returning to the United States, has made a determination that he can make a difference. As the film ends, "John Logue for State Senate" can be seen on a bumper sticker on his car.

####Bluebeard's 8th Wife####
As described in "Exhibitors Trade Review", Mona marries John Brandon and immediately after discovers that she is his eighth wife. Determined that she will not be the eighth to be divorced from him, she sets out on a teaser campaign which proves very effective until Brandon tells her that she is bought and paid for. Furious, she determines to give him grounds for a divorce and is subsequently found in her room with another man. In the end, however, Brandon discovers that she really loves him and they leave for a happy honeymoon.

####Bluebeard's Eighth Wife####
<blockquote>"Once the premise is established that Claudette Colbert wants to deflate the multi-millionaire Gary Cooper, who buys his wives – seven of ’em prior to her – as he buys a fancy motor car, making pre-marriage settlements with them, etc, it then becomes an always obvious farce." — Abel Green, "Variety"</blockquote>

On the French Riviera, wealthy businessman Michael Brandon wants to buy pajamas, but just the tops. When the store refuses to sell the pajamas without the pants, an attractive woman named Nicole offers to buy the bottoms. The two engage in a flirtatious conversation about Michael's insomnia, as Michael tries to figure out if the pajama bottoms are for a family member or lover.

At his hotel, Michael has trouble sleeping, so the managers offer him a suite on a higher floor, further away from the sounds of the sea. The suite is still occupied by the Marquis de Loiselle, whose hotel account is two months in arrears. The marquis attempts to make a business proposition to Michael, who refuses. However, when Michael recognizes the Marquis' pajama bottoms, he realizes that Nicole is his daughter. Michael alters his opinion of the marquis and buys a bathtub from him that was supposedly once owned by King Louis XIV. He then pursues Nicole and proposes marriage to her the same day. She turns him down, but eventually changes her mind and accepts.

Nicole is horrified to learn that Michael has been married seven times previously. Determined to stick around, she calls off the wedding, much to her father's dismay. Michael explains that he gives each of his wives a prenuptial agreement guaranteeing $50,000 a year for life if they should divorce. He eventually assents to Nicole's demand for twice that amount.

During the couple's honeymoon in Czechoslovakia and later at their home in Paris, Nicole keeps her discontented husband at arm's length. He assumes that she is hoping to obtain a divorce, but this only strengthens his natural tenacity and his determination not to grant her one. It is implied that what she actually wants is to keep him interested by frustrating him so that he will not grow tired of her as he did with the previous seven. After reading Shakespeare's "The Taming of the Shrew", Michael tries to follow Petruchio's example by "taming" his wife, but Nicole proves too strong for him, slapping him back when he slaps her and biting him (then tenderly treating him with iodine) when he spanks her.

Nicole writes anonymous letters to Michael claiming that she has a lover, but Monsieur Pepinard, the private detective whom Michael hires, assures him that the claim is false. Nicole then blackmails Pepinard into finding her a fake lover, a boxer named Kid Mulligan, so that Michael can catch her alone with him and get knocked unconscious. Complications ensue when her friend Count Albert De Regnier picks the wrong time to return a purse that she had left behind and is mistaken for her husband by Kid Mulligan, and gets knocked out. Michael assumes that Albert is her lover and finally gives her a divorce.

Six months later, Michael has a nervous breakdown. Nicole tries to see him in the sanitarium, but is not allowed in. Michael has been fitted with a straitjacket after spotting her father, who has arranged for her to enter by buying the sanitarium with their new wealth. Nicole tells Michael that she loved him at first sight, but had to break him of his habit of marrying so often. Now that she is financially independent, she explains, he can see that she does not want to remarry him for his money. He frees himself from his straitjacket, advances on her menacingly, then embraces her.

####Bollywood Beats####
Raj (Sachin Bhatt) is an Indian-American choreographer trying to make it in the bustling city of Los Angeles. After being dumped by his girlfriend, bombing another dance audition, and nearly getting kicked out of his parents’ home, Raj's luck changes when he meets Jyoti, (Lilette Dubey), a sexy Indian woman, who suggests for him to teach her and a group of Indian women dance.

While unsuccessful at the start, Raj's class grows with Vincent, (Mehul Shah), a gay teen who wants to dance regardless of what his father thinks, Laxmi, (Pooja Kumar), a South Indian woman new to this country and friendless, Puja, (Mansi Patel) an unenthusiastic high school student, who is being dragged by her grandmother, Vina (Sarita Joshi).

Through it all, the group manages to find family, love, and acceptance where they least expected to.

####The Boob####
Peter (George K. Arthur), a courteous idealist, seeks to win the heart of Amy (Gertrude Olmstead), who in turn fancies urbane Harry (Tony D'Algy). Jane (Joan Crawford) is a Prohibition agent who helps uncover bootlegging activities.

####Book Club####
Four women have attended a monthly book club for 40 years, bonding over the suggested literature, and have become very good friends:

* Vivian, who owns and builds hotels, runs into Arthur, a man whose marriage proposal she turned down 40 years before. They begin a flirtation, but she has always refused to settle down because she enjoys her independence.
* Diane is recently widowed, and her daughters would like her to move closer to them in Arizona because they perceive her to be in danger as she lives alone.
* Sharon is a federal judge who's been single since she divorced her son's father over 18 years ago.
* Carol has a successful marriage to Bruce, who has recently retired, but they have recently lacked intimacy.

One day, they read "Fifty Shades of Grey" and are turned on by the content. Viewing it as a wake-up call, they decide to expand their lives and chase pleasures that have eluded them.

While flying to visit her daughters in Arizona, Diane meets Mitchell and they strike up a relationship, though she is hesitant because of how recently her husband died and because she hasn't dated in decades. Vivian spends more time with Arthur, but her fear of commitment makes her keep him at a distance. Carol is frustrated with her husband's refusal to have sex with her, and by reading the book she realizes they are missing something. Sharon starts an online dating account to start dating again.

They continue to read "Fifty Shades Darker" and "Fifty Shades Freed" in their book club, while trying to figure out how to solve their problems. Diane's daughters continue to pressure her to move to Arizona but she doesn't want to leave her friends. She sneaks away to see Mitchell, and when her daughters can't reach her, they send the police out to find her. On discovering her at Mitchell's, they insist she move into the basement of one of their homes, essentially ending her relationship with him. Eventually, Diane tells her daughters that though she is older, she doesn't need to be under surveillance. She packs up her belongings and leaves for Mitchell's, where they resume their relationship.

Arthur asks Vivian to commit to being in a relationship and she declines, despite his assurances that he wants her to continue being independent. Soon after he leaves for the airport, Vivian realizes she's made a mistake and tries to go after him. She misses his airplane, but when she returns to her hotel, she finds Arthur waiting for her and they rekindle their relationship.

Carol, frustrated that Bruce is refusing to have sex with her, tries various ways to entice him, but he's completely oblivious. Eventually she spikes his beer with erectile dysfunction medication, but he becomes angry because that is not what's causing the problem, and they continue to not have sex. Bruce admits that he's been stressed because he retired, and doesn't know what to do with himself. They eventually reconcile after dancing together in a fund-raising talent show.

After a few dates with men she meets online, Sharon decides that it isn't for her. She gives a speech at her son's engagement party, where she realizes that everyone deserves to be in love and happy. She opens her online dating account again, in the hopes of finding someone.

####Book of Love####
Jack Twiller (Michael McKean) gets greetings from a long-gone high-school girlfriend. This makes him open his school's yearbook - his "Book of Love". He remembers the old times, way back in the 1950s, when he was in his last year of high school (Chris Young) and his family just moved to the town. He hung out with geeky Paul Kane and tried to get the attention of Lily (Josie Bissett), who unfortunately was together with bully Angelo (Beau Dremann). He also finds himself attracted to Angelo's feisty sister Gina (Tricia Leigh Fisher).

####Booty Call####
Rushon Askins, a tender-hearted, upwardly-mobile man, has been dating his self-righteous-to-a-fault girlfriend Nikki for seven weeks. They really like each other, but their relationship has not yet been consummated; Nikki is unsure if their relationship is ready for the next stage.

Rushon asks Nikki out to dinner, but Nikki wants it to be a double date. She brings her opinionated friend and neighbor Lysterine "Lysti", and Rushon comes with his "bad boy" buddy Bunz. Lysti and Bunz soon end up bonding as both are sexually adventurous and completely uninhibited, despite some initial bickering and resentment towards one another as each of them overplayed their roles by trying to come off as a player (Bunz) or overly high-maintenance (Lysti). Meanwhile, the more conservative and prudish Nikki decides it is time for her and Rushon to take their relationship to the next level, much to Rushon's surprise and excitement. However, they have one small problem: this is the 1990s, and Nikki wants to practice safe sex. Rushon produces a condom and just as he removes the wrapper, Nikki's mischievous, poorly trained, small terrier dog named "Killer" snatches and destroys Rushon's only condom, forcing him to have to go out and buy more condoms. Nikki then calls Lysterine and urges her to make Bunz (also condomless) use a condom as well. Therefore, Rushon (who has to take Killer along for his walk) and Bunz go on wild, late night adventures from store to store trying to find "protection" before everyone's mood evaporates. The two friends run across a wild assortment of characters which includes a Chinese medicine store owner, wacky Punjabi convenience store owners, a would-be armed robber, a hypocritical judge (Bernie Mac) and his female clerk/secret lover, and last but not least, a disobedient Killer who escapes his leash while Rushon and Bunz are in a store and leads them on a blocks-long chase.

Things soon lead to all four friends being at the hospital when Bunz accidentally shoots Rushon in the leg with a gun he took from a paranoid cabbie moments earlier. The group initially encounters a rude, unsympathetic admissions nurse who denies Rushon entry into the hospital because he has no insurance until Bunz runs across a doctor's credentials and impersonates the doctor to get his buddy admitted into the facility. However, "Doctor" Bunz is soon called in to help deliver a baby, which takes priority over a flesh wound, and he loses track of Rushon who is mistaken for a patient who is scheduled to be castrated (that patient shrewdly switched charts with Rushon upon finding out about his operation). The real doctor whom Bunz is impersonating eventually surfaces which leads the admissions nurse and security to search the hospital for the group. Bunz, Lysterine, and Nikki frantically search for Rushon who is soon anesthetized and prepared for castration. Nikki finds him right before the surgery begins and abruptly stops it by yelling that Rushon has no insurance. As both couples leave the hospital, everyone make up as both women take their men home for some long-delayed, kinky but safe sex.

####Born to Be Loved####
A seamstress (Carol Morris) and a music teacher (Hugo Haas) play cupid for each other, ending with a double wedding.

####Bottoms Up####
Owen Peadman is a Minnesota bartender who arrives in Los Angeles to try to help his father raise money to save his small restaurant. Owen moves in with his gay uncle, Earl, and tries to integrate himself into the high society of Hollywood, where he has a chance run-in with a wealthy socialite named Lisa Mancini and her uptight actor boyfriend Hayden Field. Owen, using a little influence and blackmail, gets a taste of the scandalous lifestyles of the Hollywood upper crust while dealing with his growing romantic feelings for Lisa.

####The Boudoir Diplomat####
Ian Keith plays a French military attaché in Madrid who romantically pursues the wives of various government officials. Betty Compson and Mary Duncan play the objects of his attention.

####The Bounce Back####
Matthew Taylor (Shemar Moore), a father, author, and relationship expert is on a book tour promoting his new best-selling book, "The Bounce Back". He has everything figured out until he meets the acerbic Kristin Peralta (Nadine Velazquez), a talk show circuit therapist who is convinced that he is nothing but a charlatan. Matthew's life is turned upside down when he inadvertently falls for Kristin and has to face the painful truth of his past relationship.

####Bound in Morocco####
As described in a film magazine, George Travelwell (Fairbanks), an American youth motoring in Morocco, discovers that the governor of El Harib (Campeau) has seized a young American woman for his harem. Disguised as an inmate of the harem, George nearly wrecks the place while he rescues her. One thrilling incident follows upon the heels of another in their attempts to get away, and it ends with him setting one tribe against another, leaving them free to peacefully ride away.

####The Boy Friend####
Comedy about a small-town girl unhappy with her family, and a boy trying to please her by throwing a big party.

####Boynton Beach Club####
Marilyn (Brenda Vaccaro) is a woman unexpectedly plunged into grief when her otherwise healthy husband is killed by Anita Stern (Renée Taylor), who was talking on her cell phone while backing her car out of a driveway. Marilyn is introduced to the Boynton Beach Bereavement Club by Lois (Dyan Cannon), a talkative and flirtatious decorator who also serves as the club's unofficial social director.

Meanwhile, Harry (Joseph Bologna) tutors the newly widowed Jack (Len Cariou) in the related skills of cooking and courtship, while Jack comes to terms with secret wishes he never knew his late wife had. Harry considers himself a ladies' man, but his confidence is temporarily shaken when an Internet "dream date" turns out to be a prostitute (Janice Hamilton). Jack eventually gives in to the interest from Sandy (Sally Kellerman), with whom he re-discovers his sexuality and capacity to love, but they have to overcome Sally's discomfort with being divorced and not widowed. Lois herself begins dating Donald (Michael Nouri), who fears his real profession as an exterminator may turn off Lois who thinks he's a real estate developer, while she fears letting him know her real age. After Marilyn faces Anita down over her loss, the other issues come to a head at the club's New Year's Eve party, modeled after the sock hops they all enjoyed in their youths.

####Boys and Girls####
12-year-old Jennifer Burrows and 12-year-old Ryan Walker meet aboard an airplane and are immediately at odds. Four years later, Ryan is the mascot at his high school, while Jennifer is elected Homecoming Queen at hers. During the halftime ceremony between their two schools, Ryan is chased by the rival mascot and loses his mascot head, only to find it run over by Jennifer's ceremonial car. Jennifer later finds Ryan and tries to console him about his costume. They part ways once more, realizing they are too different.

A year later, Ryan and Jennifer are students at UC Berkeley. Ryan is in a steady relationship with his high school sweetheart Betty, and Jennifer is living with a musician. Ryan and Betty break up after realizing their differences. Ryan meets his roommate Hunter, aka Steve, a self-described ladies' man with countless elaborate (and unsuccessful) ploys for sleeping with women.

Jennifer moves in with her best friend Amy after she and her boyfriend break up. Ryan and Amy start going out, and he renews his friendship with Jennifer, even after Amy has her "breakup" with him for her. They take walks, console each other over break-ups, and gradually become best friends. Jennifer even talks Ryan into dating again, as he starts seeing a girl named Megan.

One night, in a cynical mood towards love, Jennifer breaks down and Ryan tries to console her. To their equal surprise, they have sex. Afraid of commitment, Jennifer says that sleeping together was a mistake, and that they should pretend it never happened. Hurt and lovesick, Ryan breaks up with Megan and withdraws into his studies.

As months pass, Jennifer graduates and readies herself to travel to Italy. She encounters Ryan, whom she has not seen since their night together, at a hilltop overlooking the Golden Gate Bridge. Ryan confesses his feelings towards her, but she tells him that she does not feel the same way. He wishes her well in Italy, and leaves.

On the shuttle to the airport, Jennifer passes the same hilltop where they used to spend time together and realizes that she indeed loves Ryan. She immediately races back to her apartment and finds Amy frantically getting dressed to greet her. Steve confidently strolls out of Amy's bedroom and tells Jennifer that Ryan is heading back to Los Angeles on an airplane.

While waiting for departure, Ryan hears Jennifer confess her love for him in Latin. After some convincing, and feeling the wrath of a flight attendant, they rekindle their romance where they first met—on an airplane.

####Boys' Night Out####
Three married men, George, Doug, and Howie, and divorcé Fred are friends who commute to work from Greenwich, Connecticut, to New York City on the same train. Seeing Fred's philandering boss, Mr. Bingham, with his mistress sets the men to fantasizing about sharing the expense of an apartment in the city as a love nest. As a gag, they give Fred the task of finding an unrealistically inexpensive apartment and a blonde "companion" to go with it.

Fred rents a luxurious suite from Peter Bowers, who is desperate to find a tenant because the previous occupant was a highly publicized murder victim. By chance, Cathy, a beautiful blonde, also answers the advertisement for the apartment. Fred explains that the place has already been taken, but that he is also looking for a beautiful young "housekeeper" for his friends. To his surprise, she accepts the job. The boys are delighted; each tells his wife that he is taking a course one night a week at The New School for Social Research to improve his mind so he can stay in New York overnight.

Unbeknownst to the men, Cathy is actually a sociology graduate student writing her thesis on the "adolescent fantasies of the adult suburban male." Her skeptical advisor, Dr. Prokosch, objects, saying, "Can you look like 'yes' and act like 'no?' ... This a nice girl hasn't learned." Cathy responds, "No? This is what a nice girl has learned "best"." When they start calling on her individually in the evenings, she encourages them to talk, all the while secretly recording their conversations.

Cathy deftly avoids being seduced by the married men, although each lets the others think he has slept with her. She supplies what each one really wants: Howie is starved for more substantial food than his dieting wife will provide; Doug likes to repair things that are conveniently broken each week (his status-conscious wife does not want their neighbors to see him tinkering about the house); George enjoys talking about himself, but his spouse keeps finishing his sentences. Fred, however, is a different story: he is very attracted to Cathy and, disgusted by his friends' fabricated stories, refuses to use his night.

In the end, the wives become suspicious, and on the advice of Fred's mother, Ethel, hire private investigator Ernest Bohannon to find out what is going on. Based on his report, they assume the worst and confront their husbands. All three married men confess that nothing happened, and Cathy reveals that she is just doing research.

After getting over the shock, Fred and Cathy become a couple, and the boys' night out is no more; instead, the four couples go out together.

####Brainsmasher... A Love Story####
Ed Malloy, a tough bouncer from Portland, Oregon, is dragged into a twisted web of lies, magic and kung fu.  Samantha Crain is a glamorous supermodel who has everything—except for true love.  Her sister Cammy is an "Indiana Jones" styled botanist in search of a very rare lotus flower.

Meanwhile, a group of Chinese Shaolin monks with high-flying martial arts powers are in search of the lotus as well, because they believe that whoever eats its petals will gain infinite powers. (They also indignantly protest, "We are NOT ninjas!" when anyone mischaracterizes them.)

Samantha receives a package from her sister, who is trying to escape back to America, with the Shaolin monks hot on her tail. The package is the rare lotus flower. It's arranged for the Crain sisters to meet in Portland.  But the monks intervene, and the Crain sisters flee separately. While racing through the streets of Portland, Samantha seeks refuge in a bar that employs Ed Malloy (Andrew "Dice" Clay), who is notoriously nicknamed "The Brainsmasher."

Malloy sees the monks and decides to help Samantha. While on the chase from the monks (and occasionally, Malloy's mother), the two fall in love.

Desperate, the monks capture Malloy and hold him for ransom: His life for the lotus. The Crain sisters agree, but then double-cross the monks, and Malloy saves the day by living up to his 'Brainsmasher' moniker.

####The Break-Up Artist####
Britney (Crew) is a woman whose profession is to 'break up' with a significant other for people. One day she meets Rick (Benson), a charming gentleman who lures Britney into a relationship with his alluring looks and sly wit. She later discovers that he's the head of another break-up company and is stealing all her customers, which is putting her into debt. He dumps her using one of his staff who claims to be his best friend. Britney is outraged and heartbroken by the abrupt turn of events. She plots and schemes to put Rick out of business.

Britney's sister Ashley (Swan) is a flirtatious woman who dumps men at the drop of a hat. Her last boyfriend, Mike (Kennedy), is saddened and distressed when Ashley gets Britney to break up with him for her. Mike teaches art to underprivileged children, and will be entering a mural competition soon. He claims that Ashley is his muse and without her he can only draw crap. He offers to pay Britney $10,000 if she can manage to get Ashley back for him.  Britney hesitantly agrees after seeing her overdue bills and mortgage payments.

She teaches him what kind of men Ashley likes. He must be unflappable, cool, and not care what others think of him. He must be rich, so Britney gets Mike to act rich. He must be tall, dark and handsome. Britney gives Mike an extreme make-over.  He changes his fashion style, his hairstyle, and his attitude. He becomes cooler and more nonchalant around women. They arrange to "bump into" Ashley at a store and Mike pretends to be on a phone call. Ashley overhears and spins around to talk to him. He acts unflappable and doesn't falter as Britney gives him instructions through a hidden earphone. When Ashley seems impressed by his new look and attitude, Britney is overjoyed but causes Mike to crash into a clothing rack on his way out of the store because she squeals into her microphone.

Britney then learns that Rick is dating Ashley. She tries to pull them apart, but Ashley is smitten with the rich, "endearing gentleman" he appears to be. Meanwhile, Britney's friends and now downsized ex-employers, Robyn (Delain) and Tiffany (Liebert), are also plotting.  They get jobs at Rick's company and pretend to work for him. They steal his client list and give it to Britney so she can win back her old customers. Britney realizes that her friends didn't betray her, and are now helping her win back their business.

Britney slowly grows closer to Mike. They spend every day together as she coaches him, and they mope together about their broken hearts, eating snacks and watching TV. When Mike is finally ready, they arrange for him to be spotted by Ashley throughout the day, pretending to be oblivious to her. She finally catches up to him outside a dance club, but not before Britney and Mike share a kiss.

In the end Mike and Britney get together when he realizes that Ashley is not his muse, but Britney is. He and the children win the mural competition, and Britney's business is back and better than ever. Britney changes her company name to "Love Rocks" and helps people find love as well as dump their boy/girlfriends. Rick's company falls apart. Then Britney breaks up with Rick for Ashley. He mutters, "LOVE BLOWS!"

####Breakfast for Two####
After drunkenly carousing on the town, idle playboy, Jonathan Blair, wakes up to find that Texan Valentine Ransome has spent the night in his mansion. He remembers little of the night and knows little about his houseguest. Valentine is attracted to Jonathan and sets out first to reform and then to marry him, explaining to her horse-breaking uncle Sam that she intends to "slip a bit in his mouth and make him like it". In her way is Jonathan's girlfriend, actress Carol Wallace.

Jonathan is dismayed to discover that his neglected family shipping firm is in dire trouble, and that he will not be receiving his usual check, leaving him broke. Valentine decides to use this news to ignite his ambition. She buys up controlling interest in the company and moves into his home as the new tenant. When he discovers the identity of the new owner, he wrongly assumes she went out with him solely to learn what she could about the company. Furious, he tells her that he will fight to get the company back, but later, to his valet, Butch, he admits he is beaten, as nobody will lend him the money he needs to make the attempt. Butch, who approves of Valentine, informs her of this. She makes Jonathan vice president, but he visits the office only to inform her that Carol has asked him to marry her, and that he has accepted.

That afternoon, Valentine tries her best to disrupt the ceremony, with the help of noisy bearded window washers, presided over by an increasingly frustrated Justice of the Peace. Finally, Sam Ransome bursts in and declares that Carol is the mother of his children. The wedding is off, but one of the guests, Mr. Meggs, recognizes Sam and informs Jonathan.

The next day, Jonathan outlines to the firm's receivership board his bold new plan to get the company back on its financial feet. The board members vote to accept his scheme and return control of the business to him. Valentine is pleased by his display of initiative and drive ... until he tells her that the wedding with Carol is back on. In desperation, Butch produces a forged marriage certificate showing that Valentine and Jonathan are husband and wife. Carol leaves in a huff.

After Butch informs Valentine of the deception, she continues the masquerade, much to Jonathan's discomfort. When Butch confesses the truth to Jonathan, however, the tables are turned. She flees from her suddenly amorous "husband". However, at the train station, they make peace and get married for real.

####Bride by Mistake####
Home from the war, Captain Tony Travis (Alan Marshal) eyes an estate in Santa Barbara and wonders what it must be like to be that rich. It is the property of the fabulously wealthy Nora Hunter (Laraine Day), who has secretary and friend Sylvia Lockwood (Marsha Hunt) impersonate her in public. Longtime guardian Jonathan Connors (Edgar Buchanan) protects his ward's privacy zealously. During a ship launching, a press photographer takes Nora's picture, but Connors sees to it that the camera film is ruined.

Sylvia tells Nora that she is quitting so that she can accompany her husband, Phil Vernon (Allyn Joslyn), whose job requires him to move to Washington. Nora decides to marry her fiancé Donald (William Post Jr.) so that Sylvia can be her maid of honor at her wedding. But when Donald returns from military duty, he breaks the news that he has fallen in love with someone else.

Nora hosts a tea, but has Sylvia again pretend to be her. There she meets and takes a liking to Tony, but he is more interested in Sylvia. On hearing him vow that love is more important to him than money, Nora and Sylvia invite him to a weekend at Nora's beach house. Nora helps Tony court Sylvia, so that if he does genuinely love the real Nora, it will not be because of her money. All of her friends tell her she is being foolish, that nobody can resist that much temptation, but she stubbornly persists.

Mix-ups ensue. While tipsy, Sylvia accepts a marriage proposal from Tony. That night, Tony sees Phil sneak to Sylvia's bedroom for a late night hug. The next morning, he punches the overly cheerful Phil over it. Nora tells him that she and Sylvia switched rooms that night. Despite this "confession", he eventually realizes who he really loves, tosses the protesting Nora over his shoulder and carries her away to get married. On their honeymoon night in a cheap motel, Nora finally reveals her true identity. Tony is disgusted and starts to leave, but then sees her for the first time in her nightgown and stays.

####The Bride Came C.O.D.####
Pilot Steve Collins (James Cagney) agrees to help bandleader Alan Brice (Jack Carson) and heiress Joan Winfield (Bette Davis) elope. Steve then contacts her father Lucius (Eugene Pallette), offering to prevent the marriage and deliver her to him in return for enough money to get out of debt.

Steve tricks Alan into getting off the aircraft, then takes off with Joan. When an irate Joan tries to jump out of the aircraft, Steve sees that she has her parachute on backwards and is forced to crash land near the ghost town of Bonanza. The next morning, they encounter the lone resident, "Pop" Tolliver (Harry Davenport). Joan escapes into an abandoned mine. When Steve follows her, they are trapped by a cave-in. Steve finds a way out, but hides it from Joan on the advice of Pop. Believing that they are going to die, Joan re-examines her frivolous life with great regret. Steve admits he loves her, but when he kisses her, she tastes food on his lips and realizes he has found a way out. They exit the mine to find that Alan has tracked them down, accompanied by a Nevada judge.

Steve does not object when Alan and Joan get married, hiding the fact that Bonanza is in California and therefore the wedding is invalid. The "newlyweds" board another aircraft, but when Joan figures out that they are not really married, she parachutes out to be reunited with Steve.  They get married with her father's approval and honeymoon in Bonanza.

####The Bride Comes Home####
After the bankruptcy of her father's business, the penniless socialite Jeannette Desmereau (Colbert) works with magazine editor Cyrus Anderson (MacMurray) and publisher Jack Bristow (Young). They discuss love and wedding plans. However, when Bristow would seem to marry her, Anderson prepares a plan to take her back. This is a romantic comedy with money, bad tempers and love in the balance.

####Bride for Sale####
Nora Shelley is a tax expert for the accounting company which is led by Paul Martin. She thinks she can find a suitable husband by inspecting their clients' tax documents.  Martin finds out and tries to dissuade her from this approach, later enlisting the help of his friend Steve Adams, who tries to woo Shelley.

####The Bride Walks Out####
Carolyn Martin has expensive tastes despite husband Michael not earning much money. They split up and she is wooed by a millionaire.

####Bride Wars####
Emma Allan and Olivia "Liv" Lerner are childhood best friends who have planned every detail of their weddings, since first witnessing a wedding 20 years ago at the Plaza Hotel. They both have made it a top priority to be married in the same location in June. While hanging out at Liv's apartment in the present day they find a Tiffany box hidden in the closet. Both friends are excited knowing that Liv will soon get a proposal from her boyfriend. That same night Emma's boyfriend proposes to her at home over a Chinese takeout dinner. Liv gets restless waiting for her boyfriend to pop the question and eventually confronts him at his office the morning after Emma's engagement. He replies he was planning on doing it that night but then asks her on the spot.

Both women start planning and expect to be each other's maid of honor. They schedule a meeting with New York's most famous wedding planner, Marion St. Claire, who tells them there are three spots open at The Plaza in June: Two on the same day and one a few weeks later. They each choose a different day, but due to a clerical error, wind up both scheduled to have their weddings on the same day, June 6 (three and a half months later).

The two of them ask the third bride, Stacey, to switch her June 27 date with Emma. Stacey refuses, resulting in Liv fighting with Stacey while she is registering for gifts and causing Liv and Emma to be escorted out of the store. A week of passive-aggressive hostility passes before the two women make it clear to each other that neither will compromise. Emma's fiancé, Fletcher, begins to show signs of being controlling. The two women declare war after a slight misunderstanding that Liv already announced her wedding date, outraging Emma who set her date as well, which Liv becomes aware of at their shared bridal shower. The two exchange threats and insults in front of their friends who decide not to take sides.

Both attempt to sabotage the other's wedding with such antics as: Liv changing Emma's dance instructor, Emma secretly sending Liv candy to make her too fat to fit into her dress, Liv making Emma's spray tan bright orange, Emma changing Liv's hair dye to a shocking blue-white color, Liv registering Emma on Babies R Us and spreading rumors that she is pregnant. The end result is Emma showing up to Liv's invite-only bachelorette party to outdance her on stage.

Emma and Fletcher get into an argument regarding Emma's maniacal behavior, sabotaging Liv's wedding and their friendship, and how Emma has changed since they first met. The couple undergoes strains in their relationship because of Emma's newfound outspokenness and self-confidence. In contrast, Liv has learned to be more sensitive and expressive. However, due to her stress about the wedding and strained friendship with Emma, she ends up being demoted from her job as an attorney.

Both brides-to-be are shown to be in the Plaza very shortly before they are due to be wed, separately. Right before Liv leaves to begin her march to the altar, she encounters Emma's father and receives his blessing; immediately she regrets setting up a wild spring break DVD to play at Emma's wedding. She sends her assistant Kevin to replace the DVD with the right one, filled with childhood memories. Thinking that the DVD is for a prank, he does not do so. Before the brides enter their respective venues, they share a brief moment of reconciliation as they both smile at each other.

Emma begins her walk down the aisle but stops when the footage of her spring break is shown. She loses her temper and tackles Liv at her wedding on the other side. The two brides wrestle in their dresses on the floor to the shock of the guests, Fletcher, and Emma's parents who are standing in the doorway. Emma stands up and walks over to Fletcher who is upset at her behavior. Emma tells him that she is not the same person he fell in love with 10 years ago and that she has changed over the years. With that, the two decide to call off their wedding. Liv's wedding resumes after the two friends talk things out and reconcile. Emma, now Liv's maid of honor, is later and dancing with Nate, Liv's brother, and a well-known magazine journalist.

The film picks up a year later when Liv and Emma meet up for drinks, where it's revealed that Emma married Nate. Liv offers a toast to marriage but Emma says she's not drinking. When Liv says she's not either, it dawns on them that they are pregnant and their due dates are the same: March 3. The best friends squeal with excitement and hug happily.

####The Bride Wore Boots####
Sally Warren runs a horse farm, but her husband Jeff has a dislike and fear of horses. He is a Civil War historian and lecturer, which bores Sally but is very popular with local ladies who call themselves the Mason-Dixon Dames.

As a Christmas gift, Jeff tries to please his wife by buying her a horse called Albert, but her horse trainer Lance Gale, an old beau, insults Jeff about the kind of horse he picked. Sally in turn buys Jeff a desk that belonged to Jefferson Davis, but the Dames claim it's a fake and one of them, Mary Lou Medford, makes a pass at Jeff.

The next time Sally catches the same woman kissing Jeff, she sues him for divorce. Jeff ends up hiring Mary Lou as his secretary. To spite his wife, Jeff also enters Albert in the big Virginia Cup steeplechase race that Sally's always longed to win.

Albert's jockey is thrown, so Jeff reluctantly leaps into the saddle. He is thrown off repeatedly while trying in vain to catch Lance's horse in the race. But his effort impresses Sally, who reconciles with Jeff at the finish.

####Bridesmaids####
Annie Walker is a single, underachieving, down-on-her-luck woman in her mid-thirties living in Milwaukee. Her bakery failed due to the recession, wiping out her savings and causing her boyfriend to leave her. Having lost her passion for baking, she works a stressful, underpaid job at a jewelry store and shares an apartment with weird British immigrant siblings Gil and Brynn. Annie has a casual sexual relationship with the wealthy and self-absorbed Ted, who treats her like an object. The only positive presence in her life is her lifelong best friend, Lillian. When Lillian becomes engaged to her boyfriend Doug, she asks Annie to be her maid of honor.

At the engagement party, Annie meets Lillian's bridesmaids: Rita, Lillian's long married and cynical cousin; Becca, Lillian's naïve newlywed coworker; Megan, Doug's raunchy and foul-mouthed but friendly sister; and Helen, the wealthy and snobby trophy wife of Doug's boss. Annie and Helen are instantly jealous of each other's friendship with Lillian and become increasingly competitive for her attention.

Annie takes the bridal party to a Brazilian steak restaurant before visiting an upscale bridal shop, where Helen uses her influence to gain entry as Annie failed to make a reservation. While trying on gowns, the entire party – except Helen, who chose not to eat – is stricken with food poisoning and begins to vomit and experience uncontrollable diarrhea, with Lillian voiding her bowels in the middle of the street while wearing a wedding dress.

Annie's suggestion for a bachelorette party at Lillian's parents' lake house is overruled in favor of a Las Vegas trip planned by Helen. Unable to afford a first-class ticket and too proud to allow Helen to pay, Annie books a ticket in economy class. Annie accepts a sedative and liquor from Helen to calm her massive fear of flying and begins to hallucinate, suffering a paranoid breakdown that ends with her being apprehended by a U.S. Air Marshal. The plane makes an emergency landing, and the party takes a bus back home. Annie apologizes, but Lillian decides it's best if Helen takes over planning the bridal shower and wedding.

Meanwhile, Annie grows closer to Nathan Rhodes, an Irish-American Wisconsin State Patrol officer who let her off without a ticket for broken brake lights. Nathan, who had been a regular customer at Annie's bakery, repeatedly encourages her to open a new bakery, although Annie is resistant to the idea. After a romantic night together, Nathan surprises her with baking supplies, but Annie panics and leaves abruptly.

Annie is later fired from the jewelry store for cussing out a teenage customer and is then kicked out by her roommates, forcing her to move in with her mother. She then travels to Helen's home in Chicago for the extravagant bridal shower, which is Parisian-themed - an idea of Annie's that Helen had previously rejected. After Helen upstages Annie's heartfelt gift by gifting Lillian a trip to Paris, an enraged Annie throws a tantrum and destroys the outside décor. Angry that Annie has now ruined every event in her wedding, Lillian kicks her out of the bridal party and ends their friendship.

As Annie returns home, her still-broken taillights result in a car accident, from which the other driver flees. Nathan is the responding officer, much to Annie's chagrin, and he admonishes her for not fixing her taillights or taking responsibility for her life. Ted arrives shortly after to give Annie a ride, causing Nathan to storm off in disgust; however, when Ted asks Annie to perform oral sex on him as he drives, she demands to be let out of the car and walks home, leaving Ted for good.

Annie becomes reclusive, but a visit from Megan motivates her to take control of her life. Annie resumes baking, gets her car fixed, and tries to make amends with Nathan, who ignores her. On the day of the wedding, Helen appears at Annie's doorstep begging for help finding Lillian, who has disappeared. Helen apologizes to Annie, tearfully revealing that while others seek her out for her skill in planning events, she does not have any true friends and feels lonely in her marriage. After some begrudging help from Nathan, they find Lillian hiding out in her own apartment, having become overwhelmed by Helen's extravagant wedding planning and fear of leaving her life in Milwaukee. Annie reconciles with Lillian and resumes her role as maid of honor.

After the wedding, Annie and Helen finally become friends. Annie also reconciles with Nathan, who arrives unexpectedly to pick Annie up after the wedding (a gesture strongly implied to have been arranged by Helen). Annie and Nathan kiss, then ride away in Nathan's police car.

####Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason####
Bridget Jones (Renée Zellweger) is ecstatic about her new relationship with Mark Darcy (Colin Firth). However, Bridget's confidence is shattered when she meets Mark's assistant, the beautiful, slim, quick-witted Rebecca Gillies (Jacinda Barrett).

At her job on the TV morning show "Sit-Up Britain," Bridget crosses paths with her ex, Daniel Cleaver (Hugh Grant), and is offered a position alongside him in a new travel series. Initially refusing, she declares Daniel is a "deceitful, sexist, disgusting specimen of humanity," but eventually signs on, despite her friends' misgivings.

Bridget is delighted when Mark invites her to his "Law Council Dinner," believing he will propose afterward. However, a series of mishaps make the evening a debacle, culminating in the team trivia quiz: Bridget makes a critical error on a question about Madonna, which Rebecca Gillies wins, leaving Bridget thoroughly deflated.

After the dinner, Mark and Bridget argue and she stomps off. He goes to her apartment, apologizes, and tells her he loves her for the first time. Later that night, he invites her on a ski holiday to Lech, Austria. On the slopes, Bridget learns Rebecca is also there with a few other colleagues. She has a pregnancy scare, but after an argument over the upbringing and education of their hypothetical future children, the pregnancy test proves negative. Returning home, Bridget and Mark attend a lunch with their parents, where Bridget is hurt by Mark's dismissal of their prospective marriage.

Overhearing a message from Rebecca on Mark's answering machine, Bridget dissects it with her friends, who advise her to confront him; she does, he refuses "to dignify the question with an answer," and she breaks up with him. She travels to Thailand with Shazza (Sally Phillips) and Daniel Cleaver to film "The Smooth Guide." She and Daniel visit several exotic locations and, after Bridget accidentally consumes psilocybin mushrooms, they flirtily reconnect, but her trust in him again dissipates when a Thai prostitute he ordered appears, and she sees he has not changed.

Shazza has a fling with the much younger Jed (Paul Nicholls), who gives her a fertility snake bowl as a gift to take back to Britain, which ends up in Bridget's bag. When security dogs at the airport detect a large stash of cocaine inside it, Bridget is arrested and locked up in a Thai prison cell with almost 50 Thai female inmates. Feeling low and scared but glad at the friendliness of the inmates, she shares relationship advice with the others and teaches them to sing and dance to Madonna's "Like a Virgin."

Mark comes to tell Bridget that her release is imminent. After confirming Jed as the true perpetrator and that she "spent the night" with Daniel Cleaver, he declares her sex life does not interest him; Bridget does not correct his presumption, and he departs, leaving her sure he no longer loves her. Back in Britain, Mark confronts Daniel for abandoning Bridget in Thailand, and they fight outside an art gallery in Kensington Gardens. Daniel swears her off for good and says, "Why don't you just marry her?"

Bridget arrives at Heathrow Airport as an international human rights celebrity. Greeted by her parents, they have been busy planning their vow renewal ceremony. At home, Bridget is surprised when her friends tell her that Mark personally tracked down the drug trafficker Jed, secured his custody and extradition, and forced him to admit her innocence. Hopeful that Mark still loves her, Bridget rushes to his house. Finding Rebecca there she assumes she is romantically involved with him, but Rebecca confesses she is actually crazy about Bridget and kisses her; though flattered, she politely turns her down.

Bridget confronts Mark at his legal chambers, asking him to give her another chance. He proposes and she accepts. At the film end, her parents renew their vows and Bridget catches the bouquet.

####Bridget Jones's Baby####
On her forty-third birthday, Bridget Jones attends the memorial of her ex, Daniel Cleaver, presumed dead after a plane crash. She sees her other ex, Mark Darcy, with his wife Camilla.

Bridget now works as a television producer and is close friends with coworker Miranda. After spending the night of her birthday alone, Bridget decides to embrace single life, accepting Miranda's offer to go to a music festival where she meets Jack, a handsome man, after she falls into some mud. Later that evening a drunk Bridget crawls into his yurt, thinking it's hers and Miranda's. He invites her to stay and they have a one-night stand. In the morning, waking alone, Bridget leaves, unaware Jack is out getting breakfast for them both.

Returning home, Bridget goes to her friend Jude's new baby's christening, where she is the godmother and Mark has been asked to be the godfather at the last minute. He tells her he and his wife are divorcing and Camilla was only at the funeral for moral support. Realising they are still in love, Bridget and Mark spend the night together. Mark is travelling for work early the next day, so Bridget exits before he wakes up, leaving a note telling him that she fears reconnecting will repeat their past mistakes.

Weeks later, Bridget discovers she is pregnant. She decides she wants to keep the baby despite being single. After a visit to the clinic of Dr. Rawlings, she realises the father could be Mark or Jack. She is unable to contact Jack until Miranda spots him in a TV ad and discovers he is Jack Qwant, a billionaire mathematician, creator of a dating website.

Miranda and Bridget conspire to have Jack as a guest on their news show to get DNA samples to work out if Jack is the father. Although Bridget tries to stay incognito, he recognises her and asks her why she left after their night together. She apologises, blurting out that she is pregnant, implying he is the father, without mentioning Mark. Initially taken aback, Jack later throws himself into the role of father. Bridget also tells Mark the news; he is so thrilled at the prospect that she cannot bear to tell him about Jack. Dr. Rawlings tries to administer an amniocentesis DNA test, but Bridget decides not to go ahead with it while her child is still in the womb as she fears the risk of miscarriage.

Bridget invites Jack to a work event, and is startled when Mark shows up as well. They meet, and the three go out to dinner, where Bridget finally admits that she is unsure who the father is. Although disappointed, Jack takes the news well, but Mark is upset and walks out, though he eventually becomes supportive as well. Mark and Jack eventually become jealous of each other’s bond with Bridget and try to one up each other.

They pretend to be in a gay relationship to avoid embarrassment when the trio attend prenatal classes, which irritates Mark. He becomes increasingly more envious of Bridget and Jack's close relationship and is devastated when Jack lets Mark believe he and Bridget had sex without condoms, making it more likely for Jack to be the father. Mark leaves, ignoring Bridget's calls. Jack asks her to move in with him, but he eventually confesses to Bridget what he told Mark. Upset, Bridget rushes to tell Mark, but seeing his wife arriving at his house, she walks away.

Nine months into her pregnancy, Bridget finds herself locked out in the rain. Mark arrives and breaks into the flat for her. He tells her his wife was at the flat to pick up the last of her things. Just as they are about to kiss, her water breaks. When his mobile rings, Mark romantically throws it out the window, leaving them without a means to call help. They eventually make it to the hospital with some help from Gianni and Jack. Later Jack apologises to Mark for his behaviour. Bridget gives birth to a healthy baby boy, and her friends and parents come to visit them. Dr. Rawlings takes Mark and Jack away to perform the DNA test, and they genuinely wish each other luck.

A year later, Bridget marries Mark, and it is revealed he is the baby's father. Jack is a guest, showing no sign of resentment or jealousy, happily playing with Bridget and Mark's son William. Bridget expresses her contentment that everything worked out. The film ends with a newspaper headline revealing Daniel Cleaver has been found alive.

####Bridget Jones's Diary####
Bridget Jones is 32, single, engagingly imperfect, and worried about her weight. She works as a publicity assistant at a publishing company in London where her main focus is fantasizing about her boss, Daniel Cleaver.

At her parents' New Year party, Bridget is introduced to Mark Darcy, a childhood acquaintance and handsome barrister, son of her parents' friends. Mark calls Bridget foolish and vulgar, and she thinks he is arrogant and rude. Overhearing Mark grumble to his mother about her attempt to set him up with "a verbally incontinent spinster who smokes like a chimney, drinks like a fish, and dresses like her mother", Bridget forms the New Year's resolution to turn her life around. She begins keeping a diary to chronicle her attempts to stop smoking, stop drinking, lose weight, and find her Mr. Right.

Bridget and Daniel begin to flirt heavily at work, ahead of an important book launch, at which Bridget bumps into Mark and his glamorous and haughty colleague Natasha. Bridget leaves with Daniel and they have dinner, despite Daniel's notorious reputation as a womaniser. Daniel tells Bridget that he and Mark were formerly friends but as Mark slept with his fiancée, they now hate each other. Bridget and Daniel start dating.

Bridget is invited to a family party, originally a "Tarts & Vicars" costume party, so she ties it into a mini-break weekend with Daniel. They spend the day before the party at a country inn where Mark and Natasha are also staying. The morning of the party, Daniel says he must return to London for work and leaves Bridget dressed as a Playboy bunny to endure the party alone. When she returns to London and drops in on Daniel, she discovers his American colleague, Lara naked in his flat. Bridget cuts ties with him and immediately searches for a new career. She lands a new job in television, and when Daniel pleads with her to stay, she declares that she would "rather have a job wiping Saddam Hussein's arse".

Bridget attends a friend's long-standing dinner party, where she is the only unaccompanied person. Once again she crosses paths with Mark and Natasha. He privately confesses to Bridget that, despite her faults, he likes her "just as you are". Sometime later, he allows Bridget an exclusive TV interview in a landmark legal case which boosts her career and allows her to see him differently.

Bridget begins to develop feelings for Mark, and when she misguidedly and somewhat disastrously, attempts to cook her own birthday dinner party, he comes to her rescue. After a happy dinner celebration with Bridget's friends and Mark, a drunken Daniel arrives and temporarily monopolises Bridget's attention. Mark leaves, but returns to challenge Daniel and they fight in the street, eventually smashing through a window of a Greek restaurant. The fight eventually ends, with Bridget chiding Mark and he leaving, but after a self-serving appeal from Daniel, she rejects him as well.

Bridget's mother, Pamela, has left Bridget's father Colin and begun an affair with perma-tanned shopping channel presenter Julian. When the affair ends, she returns to the Jones's family home and off-handedly reveals that Mark and Daniel's falling-out resulted from Daniel (then Mark's best friend at Cambridge University) sleeping with Mark's wife which Mark walked in on, not the other way around.

At the Darcys' ruby wedding anniversary party the same day, Bridget confesses her feelings for Mark, only to learn that he and Natasha have accepted jobs in New York and are on the verge of an engagement, according to Mark's father. Bridget interrupts the toast with an emotionally moving speech that peters out as she realises the hopelessness of her position. Although her words have an effect on Mark, he still flies to New York. Bridget's friends rally to repair her broken heart with a surprise trip to Paris, but as they are about to leave, Mark appears at Bridget's flat.

Just as they are about to kiss for the first time, Bridget flies to her bedroom to change into sexier underwear. Mark peeks at her diary, reads her earlier unflattering opinions of him, and leaves. Bridget, realizing what he has read and fearing she has lost him again, runs outside after him in the snow in her tigerskin-print underwear and a thin cardigan, but doesn't find him. Disheartened, she is about to return home when he reappears, she apologises and he presents her with a new diary, "to make a fresh start". They kiss in the snow-covered street.

####Bright Lights####
As described in a review in a film magazine, Pauline (Starke) is a chorus girl who is cynical toward all men. Visiting her home town she meets Tom (Ray) and kids him along, but soon finds he is different and falls in love with him. He sees her with a city chap and misunderstanding, tries to make himself the kind of man he thinks she likes. The result is that he overdoes it and so disappoints her that she turns him down. Her friend puts him wise, he becomes his real whole-souled honest self once more and wins her.

####Brightest Star####
After his girlfriend dumps him, a young man (Chris Lowell) tries to become the kind of person she desires, but his growing love for a singer (Jessica Szohr) and some advice from an astronomer (Allison Janney) help him remain true to himself.

####Bringing Down the House####
Peter Sanderson is a workaholic tax attorney, separated from his wife Kate and often too busy for their children, Sarah and Georgie.

Peter arranges a blind date at his home with Charlene Morton, a woman he has been chatting with online. Misled by her photograph and description, he is shocked to discover that she is actually a felon who corresponded with him from prison. Charlene tries to blackmail Peter into clearing her name of armed robbery, claiming she is innocent, but he throws her out after several attempts.

Just as Peter is about to meet with a difficult client, Mrs. Virginia Arness, he is ambushed by Charlene, who draws the lustful attention of his friend and colleague Howie Rottman. Agreeing to help expunge Charlene's record and let her stay at his house, Peter lies that she is his nanny. Charlene is disrespected by Kate's unpleasant, gold digging sister, Ashley, but subdues her in a vicious locker-room brawl.

Peter takes Charlene to dinner, and Kate is upset to spot them dancing together. Returning home, Charlene coaches a drunk Peter on winning Kate back, and they are caught in a compromising position by Peter's bigoted neighbor, his boss’ sister. Charlene helps Georgie overcome his struggles with reading, rescues Sarah from unwanted advances at a party, and guides Peter toward becoming a more understanding parent.

Impressing Kate with his new commitment to spending time with their kids, Peter attempts to invite her over but is interrupted by a call, to Kate's disappointment. He races home to meet Mrs. Arness, who invites herself to dinner and reminisces fondly about her family's degrading treatment of black servants, angering Charlene. A TV news report declares Charlene a fugitive, having broken out of prison, and includes security footage from a bank robbery, appearing to prove that a masked Charlene committed the crime.

Mrs. Arness leaves, refusing to sign the lucrative contract for Peter's firm, and Peter sends Charlene away. At the office, he discovers Mrs. Arness has notified the FBI, and sneaks out to his car. He is threatened at gunpoint by Widow, Charlene's ex-boyfriend, who warns him not to reopen her case, but Peter manages to drive off. Realizing Widow must have framed Charlene, Peter returns home to ask for his children's help finding her.

Sarah admits that she gave Charlene her cell phone, which Peter calls and picks Charlene up. He explains that she was set up by Widow, who is likely at a club downtown. Peter drops Charlene off at his house, saying he is returning to the office, but instead goes to the club. Buying street clothes off of a passer-by, Peter enters the club in disguise. Kate arrives at Peter's house to find the children waiting while the FBI search the premises.

Charlene calls Howie to drive her to the home of Mrs. Arness, who refuses to let Charlene explain herself, leading Charlene and Howie to kidnap Mrs. Arness and her beloved French bulldog. Charlene calls Sarah and realizes Peter went to the club, where Peter attempts to blend in but is captured by Widow.

Peter gets Widow to confess to having committed the robbery disguised as Charlene. Arriving at the club, Mrs. Arness gets drunk and high while Charlene calls the authorities, and she and Howie confront Widow. After a scuffle for his gun, Widow shoots Charlene, and the FBI storm the club. Charlene is saved from the bullet by Peter's titanium cell phone, and Peter reveals that he recorded Widow's confession on a boombox, leading to Charlene’s exoneration and Widow’s arrest.

Having secured Mrs. Arness as a multibillion-dollar client, Peter and Howie start their own firm. Moving into their new office, Peter is surprised by Charlene, and they exchange thanks for their impact on each other's lives. Kate arrives, and she and Peter reconcile as his cell phone rings. He tosses it out the window and they kiss; downstairs, Charlene and Howie appear to do the same.

####Bringing Up Baby####
David Huxley is a mild-mannered paleontologist. For the past four years, he has been trying to assemble the skeleton of a "Brontosaurus" but is missing one bone: the "intercostal clavicle."  Adding to his stress is his impending marriage to Alice Swallow and the need to impress Elizabeth Random, who is considering a million-dollar donation to his museum.

The day before his wedding, David meets Susan Vance by chance on a golf course. She plays his ball, but refuses to accept that she has made a mistake. She is a free-spirited, somewhat scatterbrained, young lady, unfettered by logic. These qualities soon embroil David in several frustrating incidents.

Susan's brother Mark has sent her a tame leopard named Baby (Nissa) from Brazil. Its tameness is helped by hearing the song "I Can't Give You Anything But Love". Susan thinks David is a zoologist, and manipulates him into accompanying her in taking Baby to her farm in Connecticut. Complications arise when Susan falls in love with him, and she tries to keep him at her house as long as possible, even hiding his clothes, to prevent his imminent marriage.

David's prized intercostal clavicle is delivered, but Susan's aunt's dog George takes it and buries it somewhere. When Susan's aunt arrives, she discovers David in a negligee. To David's dismay, she turns out to be Elizabeth Random. A second message from Mark makes clear the leopard is for Elizabeth, as she always wanted one. Baby and George run off. The zoo is called to help capture Baby. Susan and David race to find Baby before the zoo and, mistaking a dangerous leopard (also portrayed by Nissa) from a nearby circus for Baby, they let it out of its cage.


David and Susan are jailed by a befuddled town policeman, Constable Slocum, for acting strangely at the house of Dr. Fritz Lehman, where they have cornered the circus leopard, thinking it is Baby. When Slocum does not believe their story, Susan tells him they are members of the "Leopard Gang"; she calls herself "Swingin' Door Susie," and David "Jerry the Nipper."Efn|"Jerry the Nipper" was Irene Dunne's character's nickname for Grant's character in "The Awful Truth", which also featured Asta  Eventually, Alexander Peabody shows up to verify everyone's identity. Susan, who escapes out of a window during a police interview, unwittingly drags the highly irritated circus leopard into the jail. David saves her, using a chair to shoo the big cat into a cell.

Some time later, Susan finds David, who has been jilted by Alice because of her, on a high platform working on his "Brontosaurus" reconstruction at the museum. After showing him the missing bone which she found by trailing George for three days, Susan, against his warnings, climbs a tall ladder next to the dinosaur to be closer to him. She tells David that her aunt has given her the million dollars, and she wants to donate it to the museum, but David is more interested in telling her that the day spent with her was the best day of his life. They declare their love for each other, and Susan, distracted by the moment, unconsciously swings the ladder from side to side. As they talk, and the ladder sways more and more with each swing, Susan and David finally notice that Susan is in danger. Frightened, she climbs onto the skeleton, eventually causing it to collapse. David grabs her hand before she falls, lifts her onto the platform, and halfheartedly complains about the loss of his years of work on his "Brontosaurus" as she talks him into forgiving her. Resigning himself to a future of chaos, David embraces and kisses Susan.

####Broadway Hostess####
Shaw plays a small town girl on her rise to stardom as a night club singer who is nevertheless not as fortunate with love. Pianist Tommy falls for her, even though he suspects she's in love with her manager Lucky. Lucky claims he doesn't want to get married, but is in fact in love with socialite Iris, who brings him into her circle of rich snobs, including her brother, a hot-tempered drunk with a huge gambling problem.

####Broadway Limited####
Movie director Ivan Ivanski (Leonid Kinskey) stages a publicity stunt involving  actress April Tremaine (Marjorie Woodworth), railway worker Mike Monohan (Victor McLaglen), and a baby (Gay Ellen Dakin), which turns into a real kidnapping, leaving Tremaine caught in the middle.

####The Brothers Bloom####
The Brothers Bloom, orphaned at a young age, begin performing confidence tricks as young children; Stephen dreams up elaborate scenarios and his younger brother, Bloom, creates trust with the marks. Stephen creates his first con as a way of encouraging his brother to talk to girls.

Twenty-five years later, the brothers are the world's most successful con men. They even have a regular accomplice: Bang Bang, a Japanese explosives expert who rarely speaks. Bloom, however, is dissatisfied with being nothing but an actor in Stephen's schemes. He is tired of being no more than the characters his brother has come up with and wants an 'unwritten life'. He quits and moves to Montenegro. Three months later, Stephen finds Bloom and convinces him to execute one final con. Bloom reluctantly agrees. The brothers will masquerade as antiques dealers and target Penelope Stamp, a rich, socially-isolated heiress who lives alone in a New Jersey mansion.

Bloom and Penelope meet when Bloom purposely runs into Penelope's sports car with his bicycle. Penelope reveals that she has been alone for most of her life and has picked up an array of strange hobbies such as juggling and kung fu. Bloom senses Penelope's craving for adventure and hints that he is sailing to Europe tomorrow. The next morning, Penelope arrives at the harbor to sail with the brothers to Greece.

On the ship, Melville, a Belgian hired by Stephen, begins the con, telling Penelope that the brothers Bloom are in fact antiques smugglers and he wants their help with a smuggling job in Prague. Penelope is thrilled with the idea of becoming a smuggler and convinces the brothers to accept the job, unaware that this is part of the con. Meanwhile, Bloom and Penelope are becoming attracted to one another, but Stephen warns Bloom that the con will fail if he actually falls in love with Penelope.

At the hotel bar in Prague, Bloom is visited by the brothers' former mentor and current enemy, Diamond Dog. He warns Bloom that Stephen will not be around forever, and tells Bloom he should join him. Stephen arrives and stabs Diamond Dog in the hand with a broken bottle, telling him to stay away.

In Prague, Melville cons Penelope out of a million dollars and flees, according to plan. Penelope still wants to go ahead as an antiques smuggler and steal the rare book that Melville told her about. The brothers tell Bang Bang to set off a small explosive in Prague Castle that will trigger the fire alarm, allowing Penelope to sneak in and steal the book. But Penelope accidentally switches the backpacks containing the explosives and they blow up the entire tower, creating panic in Prague. Despite this, Penelope enters the museum and steals the book. She is caught, but somehow convinces the chief of police to let her go.

The team goes to Mexico to complete the con. Bloom, who has fallen in love with Penelope, reveals to her that they are con men and the whole adventure has been a con. Stephen has anticipated his brother's change of heart and written it into his plan. The brothers fight and a gun accidentally discharges, wounding Stephen. Penelope checks out the wound, realizes that it is fake blood, and leaves with a broken heart. Bloom punches Stephen and leaves for Montenegro once again.

Three months later, Penelope finds Bloom, wanting to be with him and to become a con artist. Unable to deny his love for her but not wanting her to be like him, Bloom meets with Stephen to set up one final con, where they will fake their own deaths. The team goes to St. Petersburg, where they must sell the rare book to Diamond Dog.  They are ambushed by Diamond Dog's gang while heading to the exchange. Stephen is kidnapped and Bang Bang takes this opportunity to quit working for the Bloom brothers. As soon as she leaves, her car explodes, leaving Penelope and Bloom uncertain whether she was caught in the blast or faked her death. Stephen is held ransom for $1.75 million. Bloom suspects this is just another one of Stephen's tricks; Penelope, just in case, wires the money from her bank account to the mobsters.

Bloom goes into an abandoned theater to make the exchange, and finds Stephen tied up and beaten. Bloom demands that Stephen tell him if this is real or if it is a con. A hit man tosses Bloom a phone, and Diamond Dog confirms that it is real. The hit man attacks them, and Stephen takes a bullet for Bloom and collapses on the floor. Bloom again asks whether this was real, or just the "perfect con". Stephen gets up and assures Bloom that he is fine. Stephen tells Bloom to leave St. Petersburg with Penelope, and that they will meet again.

Bloom and Penelope drive away. Earlier in dialogue, the audience is told fake bloodstains stay red over time, unlike real ones which turn brown, and after several hours Bloom discovers that Stephen's bloodstain on his shirt has become brown. Realizing that Stephen has surely died, Bloom breaks down on the side of the road while Penelope tries to comfort him. As they are leaving, Bloom recalls what Stephen had said earlier, "The perfect con is one where everyone involved gets just the thing they wanted" – and that perhaps his brother really pulled off the perfect con.

####Bull Durham####
The single-A  Minor League Baseball team the Durham Bulls are dealing with another sparsely attended losing season, with one thing working for them; Ebby Calvin LaLoosh, a hotshot rookie pitcher known for having a "million dollar arm, but a five cent head," who has potential to become a major league talent.  "Crash" Davis, a 12-year veteran in minor league baseball, is sent down as the team's catcher to educate LaLoosh and control his haphazard pitching. Crash immediately begins calling Ebby by the degrading nickname of "Meat", and they get off to a rocky start.

Thrown into the mix is Annie, a "baseball groupie" and lifelong spiritual seeker who has latched onto the "Church of Baseball" and has, every year, chosen one player on the Bulls to be her lover and student. Annie flirts with both Crash and Ebby and invites them to her house, but Crash walks out, saying he's too much of a veteran to "try out" for anything. Before he leaves, Crash further sparks Annie's interest with a memorable speech listing the things he "believes in", ending with, "I believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that last three days... Good night". Despite some animosity between them, Annie and Crash work, in their own ways, to shape Ebby into a big-league pitcher. Annie plays mild bondage games, reads poetry to him, and gets him to think in different ways (and gives him the nickname "Nuke").

Crash forces Nuke to learn "not to think" by letting the catcher make the pitching calls (memorably at two points telling the batters what pitch is coming after Nuke shakes off his signs), and lectures him about the pressure of facing major league hitters who can hit his "heat" (fastballs). Crash also talks about the pleasure of life in major league, which he briefly lived for "the 21 greatest days of my life" and to which he has tried for years to return. Meanwhile, as Nuke matures, the relationship between Annie and Crash grows, until it becomes obvious that the two of them are a more appropriate match, except for the fact that Annie and Nuke are currently a couple.

After a rough start, Nuke becomes a dominant pitcher by mid-season, adding to the Bulls' good fortunes and, in the end, he is called up to the major leagues. This incites jealous anger in Crash, who is frustrated by Nuke's failure to recognize all the talent he was blessed with. Nuke leaves, Annie ends their relationship, and Crash overcomes his jealousy to leave Nuke with some final words of advice. The Bulls, now having no use for Nuke's mentor, release Crash. Crash then presents himself at Annie's house and the two consummate their attraction with a weekend-long lovemaking session. Crash then leaves Annie's house to seek a further minor-league position.

Crash joins another team, the Asheville Tourists, and breaks the minor-league record for career home runs. Nuke is seen one last time, being interviewed by the press as a major leaguer, reciting the clichéd answers that Crash had taught him earlier. Crash then retires as a player and returns to Durham, where Annie tells him she's ready to give up her annual affairs with "boys." Crash tells her that he is thinking about becoming a manager for a minor-league team in Visalia. The film ends with Annie and Crash dancing in Annie's candle-lit living room.

####Bundle of Joy####
Polly Parish (Reynolds) works in the Millinery Department at J.B. Merlin & Son's department store on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She is summoned to the office of the store manager, who informs her that she is fired because she is overselling hats, which creates too many returns and too much work for the accounting department. After work, Polly walks home and wonders what she will do to make ends meet.

On a step, she finds an abandoned baby in a blanket and instinctively picks it up to comfort it. As she bends over, the door behind the step opens and a woman ushers Polly and the baby inside. Polly has not noticed the sign that indicates the door belongs to an orphanage. When she denies the baby is hers inside, the staff disbelieve her, having experienced countless women reluctant to admit that they bore a child out of wedlock. Polly explains that she has just lost her job at J.B Merlin & Son's and insists there is no way that she will care for a baby that is not hers.

After she leaves, the head of the orphanage decides to intervene on her behalf, knowing the Merlins to be charitable. He convinces the firm to hire Polly back, and she is summoned to a meeting with Dan Merlin (Fisher) the son of the eponymous owner. Dan informs her that she will be hired back at $10 more per week and that a gift will be delivered to her apartment later that night. When the baby arrives, Polly is flabbergasted. She convinces a friend to help her deliver the baby back to Dan at his home on East 63rd Street.

They leave the baby in the care of Dan's butler, whom Dan enlists to help him return the baby to Polly. They track her down to a dance hall where she is hoping to win a prize. Dan gets into a scuffle and gets thrown out. So he goes to Polly's apartment and waits for her there with the baby. Forced to care for the baby, Polly makes do and grows fond of him. She names the child John, and Dan checks in on her from time to time.

On New Year's Eve, Dan is stood up by his date, because he had forgotten to call her earlier. He arranges for Polly's landlady to watch John while they go out together. He takes her to the department store to get an outfit for a night out on the town. When he drops her off back at home, he jokes that she is fired so that he can kiss her.

Meanwhile, J.B. Merlin has been misinformed that he is a grandfather, mistaking John to be Dan's son. He begins to make arrangements for Dan to have full custody of the child. Polly panics at the thought of losing John. So she pretends that her landlady's nephew, who is visiting from Harvard, is John's real father. Dan produces a store employee to pretend he is the father. The ensuing confusion leads to a full confession of love from Dan and a happy union for the new family, and J.B. is convinced the boy is his grandson.

####But I'm a Cheerleader####
Seventeen-year-old Megan Bloomfield is a happy high school senior who loves cheerleading and is dating Jared, a football player. However, she does not enjoy kissing Jared, instead preferring to look at her fellow cheerleaders. This, combined with her interests in vegetarianism and Melissa Etheridge, leads her parents, Peter and Nancy, and friends to suspect that she is a lesbian. Aided by ex-gay Mike, they surprise her with an intervention. She is then sent to True Directions, a two-month-long conversion therapy camp intended to convert attendees to heterosexuality via a five-step program in which they admit their homosexuality, "rediscover" their gender identity by performing stereotypically gender-associated tasks, find the root of their homosexuality, demystify the opposite sex, and simulate heterosexual intercourse. Upon arrival, she meets strict disciplinarian Mary J. Brown, the program's director. Mary's son Rock is seen throughout the film to actually be overtly homosexual, making multiple sexual overtures towards Mike and the other male campers.

During the program, Megan befriends college student Graham Eaton; although more comfortable in her sexuality, she was forced to attend the camp or risk being disowned by her family after her stepmother caught her having sex with a girlfriend of hers in her room. She also meets several fellow adolescents and young adults trying to "cure" themselves of their homosexuality. The group's prompting forces her to reluctantly admit her lesbianism, which contradicts her traditional religious upbringing and distresses her, so she puts every effort into becoming heterosexual. Early on in her stay, she shockingly discovers retail worker Clayton Dunn making out with a fellow male camper and varsity wrestler named Dolph. After Mike catches them in the act, Dolph is dismissed from the premises and Clayton is punished with isolation, literally being sent to the doghouse for a week.

Two of Mary's former students, ex-ex-gays Larry and Lloyd Morgan-Gordon, encourage the campers to rebel against her by taking them to a local gay bar called Cocksucker, where Graham and Megan's relationship becomes romantic. Upon discovering what they did, Mary forces all of them to picket the couple's house, carrying placards and shouting homophobic abuse. Megan and Graham sneak away one night to have sex and begin to fall in love. When Mary discovers their escapade, Megan, now unapologetically comfortable with her sexuality, is dismissed from the premises. Graham, afraid that her continued defiance will result in her father potentially disinheriting her permanently, stays behind.

Disowned by her parents and homeless, Megan goes to stay with Larry and Lloyd, discovering that Dolph now also lives with them. The pair plan to rescue Graham and Clayton by infiltrating the graduation ceremony. While Dolph successfully coaxes Clayton away, Graham nervously declines Megan's invitation to join them. She then performs a cheer she composed for Graham declaring her love for her, finally winning Graham over. They drive off with Dolph and Clayton. The final scene shows Peter and Nancy uncomfortably attending a PFLAG meeting to come to terms with their daughter's homosexuality.

####The Butcher's Wife####
As a clairvoyant, Marina awaits signs from beyond that her true love, whoever he may be, is waiting for her, somewhere. When New York butcher Leo Lemke shows up on the tiny North Carolina island of Ocracoke, where Marina lives, she is convinced that he is the man predestined to be her husband. After the wedding, Marina moves into Leo's blue-collar neighborhood, where she successfully commiserates with such eccentrics as withdrawn teenager Eugene, frustrated singer Stella Keefover, unlucky-in-love actress Robyn Graves, over analytical psychiatrist Dr. Alex Tremor, and closeted lesbian dress shop clerk Grace. But what Marina fails to grasp about her powers is that she can see the future of strangers far more clearly than her own, and love is unpredictable no matter how many ways you have to look for it.

The film makes use of several phenomena that can be described as occult portents that meeting a love match is imminent or occult tools to help strengthen, seal or bring about love, luck and happiness.  These include the sudden "finding" of a ring that would serve as a wedding band, falling stars with twin tails, zig-zagged rainbows and found objects symbolizing a change in the finder's path that will cause it to cross with their beloved.

####Butterflies Are Free####
In San Francisco of the early 1970s, Don Baker, who was born blind, has lived all his life with his mother. When Don was young, Mrs. Baker wrote a series of popular children's books about Little Donny Dark, a blind boy who performs heroic deeds. Don moves into an apartment on his own, but finds himself all alone. He has made a contract that his mother will not come to see him for at least two months.

One month has passed. This is when Jill Tanner moves into an adjoining apartment. She listens to Don talking to his mother over the phone and turns on the radio. When Don asks her to turn the volume down, she invites herself over for a cup of coffee. They start talking and find each other friendly. Jill does not realize that Don is blind until she sees him dropping his cigarette ash on the table. Jill has never met a blind man before, so she asks all sorts of questions about how Don manages everyday chores.

Jill tells Don that her favorite quote is: "I only ask to be free. The butterflies are free. Mankind will surely not deny to Harold Skimpole what it concedes to the butterflies." (From Dickens' "Bleak House".) She takes him to Asparagus, a bohemian clothing store, on Union Street, where owner Roy helps them pick out some free-spirited fashion. Back home, Don makes up a song and starts to sing "Butterflies Are Free" on his guitar. They discover they can unlock the door separating their two apartments.

Surprising Don with a visit, Mrs. Baker sees that Don has attached himself to Jill. She also encounters them in the apartment partially undressed. She fears that Jill will break Don's heart. She takes Jill out for a lunch at Perry's, on Union Street, and tries to talk her out of Don's life. Jill has strong feelings for Don and tells Mrs. Baker that if there is someone who should get out of Don's life, it is she.

Following Mrs. Baker's input, Jill later breaks a dinner date at Don's apartment, showing up much later with Ralph, the director of the play she has auditioned for. Jill hesitantly announces that she is moving in with Ralph, trying too hard to convince Don, and herself, that it is a great idea.

When Jill goes to pack her things, a heartbroken Don asks his mother if he can move back home. She talks him out of it, pointing out that her Little Donny Dark books had been her way of helping young Don face his fears, and she (sadly) must do the same now. They finally make peace over their new roles in life. Jill and Don fight over her moving out, and Don tells her she is the one who is disabled. She leaves but returns to Don, and the two reconcile.

####Bye Bye Birdie####
In 1958, popular rock and roll star Conrad Birdie receives an Army draft notice, devastating his teenage fans nationwide. Despite his doctorate in biochemistry, unsuccessful songwriter Albert Peterson schemes with his secretary and long-suffering girlfriend Rosie DeLeon to have Conrad sing a song Albert will write. Rosie convinces Ed Sullivan to have Conrad perform Albert's song "One Last Kiss" on "The Ed Sullivan Show" and then kiss a randomly chosen high school girl goodbye before joining the Army. After this succeeds, Albert will feel free to marry Rosie, despite his widowed, meddlesome mother Mae's long history of interfering with her son's life.

Columbus, Ohio, is chosen as the location for Conrad's farewell performance. The random lucky girl chosen, Kim MacAfee, is thrilled, unlike her high school sweetheart, Hugo Peabody. The teenagers of nearby Sweet Apple, blissfully unaware of their town's impending fame, are spending the "Telephone Hour" discussing the latest gossip: Kim and Hugo have just gotten pinned (a tradition where a boy gives a girl his fraternity pin, indicating a serious commitment to each other) and Kim feels grown up ("How Lovely to Be a Woman").

Upon Conrad's arrival, the teenaged girls sing their anthem, "We Love You Conrad", but the boys despise him for stealing their girls' attention ("We Hate You Conrad!"). Sweet Apple becomes very popular, but some local adults are unhappy with the sudden celebrity, especially after Conrad's song "Honestly Sincere" and his hip-thrusting moves cause every woman, including the mayor's wife, to faint.

Pressured by the town's notable citizens, Kim's father Harry declines to allow her to kiss Conrad on television, until Albert placates him by promising that his "whole family" will be on Sullivan's TV show ("Hymn for a Sunday Evening"). Albert reveals to Harry that he is actually a biochemist who has developed a miracle supplement for domestic animals that will make a hen lay three eggs a day; they test it on the family's pet tortoise, which speeds out the door. Harry, a fertilizer salesman, sees a great future for himself marketing this pill with Albert.

Hugo feels threatened by Conrad, but Kim reassures him that he is the "One Boy" for her. Rosie, meanwhile, feels unappreciated by Albert, who persuades her to "Put on a Happy Face". Albert's mother Mae shows up, distressed to find the pair together; Harry is also agitated about Conrad's monopoly of his house and Kim's behavioral changes. Both lament the problems with "Kids" today.

During rehearsal for the broadcast, an impatient Conrad kisses Kim (who swoons). Hugo is hurt and Kim and Hugo break up, with all three asserting that they have "A Lot of Livin' to Do". Informed the Russian Ballet has switched to a different dance requiring extra time, therefore eliminating Conrad's song and farewell kiss to Kim, Albert unsuccessfully attempts to convince the Ballet's manager to shorten its performance, and he dejectedly decides to drown his sorrows at Maude's Madcap Café.

Surprisingly, he finds Mae there, playing canasta with the café's owner Mr. Maude, also a widower. Rosie, fed up with Albert and his mother, also goes to the café for "a night to remember". After ordering three drinks (but only gulping down one), Rosie goes into another room where the Shriners convention is taking place. She starts dancing and flirting with the men ("Sultans' Ballet"), but when the scene becomes too wild, Albert rescues her from the crazed Shriners.

The next day, Rosie formulates how to get back Conrad's spot on "The Ed Sullivan Show" that evening. She slips one of Albert's pills into the orchestra conductor's milk, which speeds up the ballet, amusing the audience, offending the Russians and placing Conrad back on the show to sing "One Last Kiss". However, just as Conrad is about to kiss Kim, Hugo runs onstage and punches him out on the live telecast, which shocks Albert and Rosie.

Kim and Hugo reunite. Albert is free to marry now ("Rosie") and his mother agrees, revealing her own marriage to Mr. Maude. All three couples live happily ever after. Kim, now wiser, bids Conrad a fond goodbye in "Bye Bye Birdie (Reprise)".

####Bye Bye Love####
This is a story about the breakup of the family. In particular, it focuses on the lifestyle of three divorced men in the Los Angeles area, Dave Goldman (Matthew Modine), wrestling coach/driver's ed teacher Vic D'Amico (Randy Quaid), and real estate agent Donny Carson (Paul Reiser).

The film is presented from their perspective and it reveals their relationships with their children, former wives, girlfriends, male friendships, and their identities as divorced men. In addition to dealing with divorce, the film touches on spousal loss and young adult homelessness.

####Cadet Girl####
A West Point cadet falls in love with a girl who sings in his brother's band.

####Cafe Metropole####
In Paris in 1937, Victor Lobard owns the very exclusive Café Metropole. One night, he must expel drunk American Alexander Brown after closing time. He is then visited by Maxl Schinner, who had lent Victor 900,000 francs (which he embezzled), and Victor has repaid nothing. Victor asks for another 60,000 francs and promises to repay everything at 6:00 the next evening. Maxl gives him the money.

Victor risks the 60,000 francs at baccarat and wins 420,000 more. Alexander wagers the full amount against him, but loses. Victor seemingly has the money he needs, but then Brown confesses that he is penniless. Victor makes a deal with Alexander, convincing him to impersonate Russian nobleman Prince Alexis Paneiev and to romance heiress Laura Ridgeway, the daughter of Victor's old friend, so that Victor can have access to the girl's money.

Alexis arrives early at the café and visits the Metropole's flower shop for a boutonnière. There he is mistaken by Laura for an employee, and Alexis is enchanted, without knowing whom she is. When Laura joins her father at their table, she asks Victor to attract some celebrities or royalty. Alexis enters and is greeted by Victor as "your highness," embarrassing Laura. Alexis dances with Laura but is summoned by a waiter to answer a telephone call. However, there is no call; the waiter is the real Alexis Paneiev. Victor manages to soothe his outraged honor and obtain his silence for 50,000 francs.

Alexander falls in love with Laura, but he cannot bear to lie to her any longer. He tries and fails to discourage her love for him without revealing the sordid details. He tells Victor that he will tell her the truth, but when she telephones and asks him to marry her, he at last says yes. Victor has his lawyer, Monnet, present Alexander with a contract asking for money from Laura's father, Joseph Ridgeway: half a million dollars before the wedding, and the same amount after, as well as various sums for any children. This so disgusts Alexander that he tells Victor that he is through with the scheme. Victor, after trying to bluff him into submission, pretends to give up and gives him back his passport and his bad check. Then Victor tells Ridgeway that Alexis is a fraud. He cons Ridgeway into believing he bought Alexis off; Ridgeway writes him a check for a million francs to help with the costs.

Ridgeway tells Laura the news, but she surprises him by saying she knew all along. However, when he states that he bought Alexis off, Laura does not believe him. She is certain that Alexis is in trouble and insists on finding out what is going on.

Ridgeway asks the "Sûreté" to arrest Alexis. Instead, they jail the genuine prince. When Laura goes to the jail to see "her" Alexis, she is surprised to find an older man, who reveals that Victor is involved somehow. As Laura is leaving, she finds Alexander being charged with fraud. Joseph Ridgeway is arrested on the false charge that he was impersonating himself. They realize that they have all been played by Victor. They get out of jail and go back to the Café Metropole. Alexander and Laura, who are going to get married, get back the check that Alexander wrote, so he is no longer in danger of going to jail.

####Cafe Society####
The wealthy Christopher "Chris" West is a member of the cafe society.  To win a bet, she marries reporter Crick O'Bannon, who believes Chris married him for love.  When Crick overhears Chris telling one of her friends about the bet, he decides to get even by writing a story about her betrayal.  In response, Chris's grandfather, Christopher West Sr, apologizes for his granddaughter's behavior and requests that the couple live together until the divorce is quietly finalized in order to avoid a scandal.  Because he dislikes Chris' society friends, Crick refuses and lives apart from her.

While still married, Chris and Crick constantly argue.  When she notices that Crick is close to nightclub singer Bells Browne, Chris becomes jealous but resigned that Crick prefers Bells.  She decides to sail for Europe, but is surprised when Crick appears on the ship, having been alerted to Chris's departure by her grandfather.  Crick explains that Bells is only a friend and Chris returns to shore with him.  However, Chris's jealousy resurfaces upon seeing Bells singing at the club that night and she persuades the club's owner to fire Bells.  When the bartender, Bill, calls Chris out on her brash behavior, a contrite Chris asks that Bells be rehired and admits to Crick that she has been an awful fool.

####Caffeine####
The staff and customers of the cafe get an extra jolt with their coffee when a commitment-shy man has a public fight with his angry ex-girlfriend, instigating a series of revelations about the eavesdropping couples nearby and their own unusual relationships; filled with eccentric personal conversations, confrontational arguments, imaginary visions, and connections between various characters.

####Cairo####
American Homer Smith is the star reporter of a small newspaper, which is named the best small town newspaper in the country. As a reward for his contributions, he is sent to North Africa to report on the war. In the Mediterranean, however, his ship is sunk; he and one other survivor, Philo Cobson, make it to shore. Cobson reveals that he is a member of British Intelligence and asks Smith to give a coded message to a Mrs. Morrison in Cairo.

Mrs. Morrison tells him that motion picture star Marcia Warren is a Nazi spy. Smith, a big fan of Warren, has trouble believing it, but finds Warren's behavior suspect. He gets a job as her butler as Juniper Jones. Meanwhile, the innocent Warren begins to think that Smith is an enemy agent. Despite their mutual suspicions, they start to fall in love. Eventually, the real spies are unmasked: Cobson and Mrs. Morrison.

####Call Me Madam####
A wealthy Washington, D.C., socialite, Sally Adams (Ethel Merman), has political connections and is appointed U.S. ambassador to the tiny country of Lichtenburg, even though nothing in her background qualifies her for the job. A young journalist, Kenneth Gibson (Donald O'Connor), persuades her to let him tag along as her press attaché.

In the duchy of Lichtenburg, the arrival of Ambassador Adams does not sit well with some, particularly chargé d'affaires Pemberton Maxwell (Billy De Wolfe), who is annoyed by many things, including her insistence on being addressed by him as "Madam." A pressing issue in Lichtenburg is that Princess Maria (Vera-Ellen), niece of Grand Duke Otto (Ludwig Stössel) and Grand Duchess Sophie (Lilia Skala), is about to have an arranged marriage to a neighboring land's Prince Hugo (Helmut Dantine), but lacks a sufficient dowry to make their union a fair bargain for both parties.

Knowing her republic's penchant for foreign aid, Sally is approached by Prime Minister Sebastian (Steven Geray) about asking her friend President Truman for a loan of $100 million, to the consternation of Lichtenburg's foreign minister, General Constantine (George Sanders), who wants his country to be independent and self-reliant. Sally finds herself attracted to Constantine, while after a chance meeting in a department store, Kenneth has developed a very impractical romantic interest in Princess Maria, who finds him charming as well.

In time, Sally returns home to Washington, where she belongs. At one of her social events, she is pleased to hear Constantine is among the guests, then disheartened at learning he has brought along a female companion. A happy ending for all ensues, however, when his date turns out to be Maria, who is willing to marry Kenneth and abdicate her royal title. Sally's future with Constantine seems assured, too.

####The Cameraman####
Buster, a sidewalk tintype portrait photographer in New York City, develops a crush on Sally, a secretary who works for MGM Newsreels. To be near her, he purchases an old film camera, emptying his bank account, and attempts to get a job as one of MGM's cameramen. Harold, an MGM cameraman who has designs on Sally himself, mocks his ambition.

Sally, however, encourages Buster and suggests he film anything and everything. Buster's first attempts show his total lack of experience. He double exposes or over exposes much of the footage, and the rest is simply no good. Despite this setback, Sally agrees to go out with Buster, after her Sunday date cancels. They go to the city plunge (pool), where Buster gets involved in numerous mishaps. Later, Harold offers Sally a ride home; Buster has to sit in the rumble seat, where he gets drenched in the rain.

The next day, Sally gives him a hot tip she has just received that something big is going to happen in Chinatown. In his rush to get there, he accidentally runs into an organ grinder, who falls and apparently kills his monkey. A nearby cop makes Buster pay for the monkey and take its body with him. The monkey turns out only to be dazed and joins Buster on his venture.

In Chinatown, Buster films the outbreak of a Tong War, narrowly escaping death on several occasions. At the end, he is rescued from Tong members by the timely arrival of the police, led by a cop who had been the unintentional victim of several of Buster's antics over the last few days. The cop tries to have him committed to the mental hospital, but Buster makes his escape with his camera intact.

Returning to MGM, Buster and the newsreel company's boss are dismayed to find that he apparently forgot to load film into his camera. When Sally finds herself in trouble for giving Buster the tip, Buster offers to make amends by leaving MGM alone once and for all.

Buster returns to his old job, but does not give up on filming, setting up to record a boat race. He then discovers that he has Tong footage after all; the mischievous monkey had switched the reels. Sally and Harold are speeding along in one of the boats. When Harold makes too sharp a turn, the two are thrown into the river. Harold saves himself, but Sally is trapped by the circling boat. Buster stops filming to jump in and rescues her. When Buster rushes to a drug store to get medical supplies to revive her, Harold returns and takes credit for the rescue. The two go off, leaving the brokenhearted Buster behind, while the monkey films it all on the camera.

Buster decides to send his Tong footage to MGM free of charge. The boss decides to screen it for Harold and Sally for laughs, but is thrilled by what he sees. They also see footage of Buster's boat footage and the monkey's shot of Buster's rescue of Sally. The boss calls it the best camerawork he has seen in years. The boss sends Sally to get Buster, who tells him that he's in for a great reception. Buster assumes a ticker-tape parade is in his honor, whereas it is really for Charles Lindbergh.

####Camille####
The plot follows the two characters who have recently married and are going to Niagara Falls on their honeymoon.  Silas Parker is a thief who marries Camille Foster, his parole officer's niece, seeing it as his chance to escape to Canada. Silas cannot stand Camille and she is blind to how he really feels, believing that everything will be all right once they get to the falls. After their wedding Camille frets that no rice was thrown, seeing it as bad luck.

On the way to Niagara Falls they crash their honeymoon bike and Camille dies in the accident. Thinking that he killed her, Silas runs away and breaks into a nearby house to call the police, but hanging up abruptly. When he returns to the accident site he finds Camille up and washing in a nearby river. Over the course of the trip Silas realizes that Camille really did die in the accident as she starts to decay. While taking care of her, Silas shows a kinder side through his guilt over having accidentally caused her death.

Meanwhile, the police believe that Silas actually killed his wife and begin to hunt him down. The couple must evade capture several times and end up traveling with an old rodeo cowboy with colored horses. One horse, Maggie, is old and should have died years ago but is still sticking around for some reason. As Camille physically deteriorates she and Silas grow closer, eventually dancing and kissing in the rain. Silas says that while he never believed in anything, Camille believed in him when no one else ever had.

The couple travel with the cowboy until he has a breakdown and frees all his horses. Seeing that Maggie will not leave his side even at gunpoint, the cowboy mounts the horse and they ride into the dawn.

The couple finally reach Niagara Falls and take the boat tour together. As Silas smiles down on Camille, happy to be with her, she tells him that she is ready now. He turns to ask someone to take their picture, and when he turns back she has vanished. He gets off the boat and heads towards the Canada–US border, but stops and goes back looking for Camille. The police then spot him and chase him to the edge of the Niagara Falls viewing point. Not believing that Camille is truly gone, he screams for her, and the police, thinking he is still evading arrest, shoot him. Camille suddenly appears, riding toward him on Maggie, and asks why he didn't go on without her, and he says he couldn't. He mounts up behind her and says "I love you" for the first time. They kiss and then turn toward the falls. Camille says "I had a great honeymoon" and Silas answers "Me too."

Then Maggie gallops forward and jumps over the edge into the Niagara Falls with Camille and Silas on her back, all three disappearing into the mist. After they jump, rice starts to fall from the sky.

####Can You Keep a Secret?####
Emma Corrigan is a New York junior marketing representative at Panda, an organic food company, in Chicago for a sales meeting. The client declines her pitch. Emma gets drunk on the flight home. When the plane hits turbulence, she thinks she will die, and reveals her personal and professional woes to a handsome stranger, including her dissatisfaction with her boyfriend, Connor. Connor meets her at the airport and suggests they move in together. She agrees but regrets it the next morning.

Back at work, Emma prepares for the visit by Panda CEO Jack Harper. When he arrives, he is the handsome stranger from the plane. He agrees not to say anything or fire her, if she in return does not reveal that he was in Chicago.

In a marketing meeting Emma suggests that the target demographic for their "Panda Bites" product line should not be millennials, but the elderly. Connor and other coworkers say the product should simply be axed. Emma later asks Nick, the rep responsible for Panda Bites, for a cut of the marketing budget to test her theory.

Emma calls Connor to the archive room for spontaneous sex in an attempt to reinvigorate their relationship. When Connor refuses, Emma breaks up with him. Jack asks her out to dinner and the two begin a passionate relationship. Jack, however, remains secretive. Emma's roommate and best friend, Lissy, cautions her that their relationship may be too one-sided.

Jack discusses Panda's products on television with the office watching. He describes the company's new target demographic as the "girl on the street", and going into greater detail begins describing Emma, listing all of her secrets. Although he doesn't name her, her coworkers realize it is her and begin mocking her. Jack realizes too late what he's done. Emma refuses to take his calls. When he finds her at a coffee shop, Emma demands to know why he has been going to Chicago. Jack is reluctant and Emma leaves. Lissy and their other roommate, Gemma, suggest Emma get even by revealing his secrets. Gemma suggests a tabloid reporter friend help find details about Chicago but Emma declines.

At a marketing meeting, boss Cybill congratulates Nick for the ad in a magazine for the elderly which has paid off. When he takes all the credit, Emma calls him out, and requests a promotion she was promised. Cybill agrees.

Jack reveals the reason for his trips to Chicago: he has been working to ensure that his goddaughter stays out of the spotlight after the death of her father so she can have a normal life. Gemma arrives just then with her reporter friend and Jack leaves in anger. Emma tracks him down on a plane back to Chicago. She assures him she told the reporter nothing and expresses gratitude that he loved her when she was her true self. He then begins to reveal all of his secrets to her.

####Can't Be Heaven####
Danny (Bryan Burke), is a young student in middle school. He starts to develop feelings for his best friend, Julie (Michelle Trachtenberg). However a new student by the name of Archie (Michael Galeota) comes in and sweeps Julie off her feet. Danny flees to the graveyard where his father is buried and talks to him about his problems. He soon comes across Hubbie the Ghost (Ralph Macchio), who helps Danny with his girl problems. As a former living person from the 1930s, Hubbie, gives Danny his advice. The advice repeatedly backfires, always leaving Danny depressed. Danny soon learns that Hubbie once had a former lover before dying in an accident. Danny and Julie end up together at a school dance and Hubbie re-connects with his former love with the help of Danny.

####Can't Buy Me Love####
Ronald Miller is a typical high school nerd living in suburban Tucson, Arizona. He has spent all summer mowing lawns to save up for a telescope. At an opportune moment, he makes a deal with next-door neighbor and popular cheerleader Cindy Mancini. She had borrowed her mother's expensive suede outfit without permission to wear to a party, only to have wine accidentally spilled on it. Cindy reluctantly agrees to help Ronald look "cool" by posing as his girlfriend for a month for $1,000 (which was used to replace the ruined outfit), although she already has a boyfriend, Bobby, who is attending the University of Iowa.

Ronald then trades his nerdy, yet loyal, friends for the popular but shallow students, and undergoes a complete clothing and hair makeover under Cindy's direction. Over time, a bond develops between them. Cindy has Ronald read a secret poem she wrote that means a great deal to her. In turn, Ronald reveals his interests in astronomy and space travel. On their last date that Ronald paid for, Cindy begins to have real feelings for him and hints that she would like to kiss him, but he misunderstands. The next day at school, they stage a breakup in front of a crowd, but Ronald takes things too far and says some hurtful things about Cindy in front of her friends. She remains calm and distant, but informs Ronald that popularity is hard work and that he needs to make sure that he "stays himself." The next day, Cindy notices him behaving arrogantly at school, and becomes jealous when she sees him flirting with her best friends Barbara and Patty.

Ronald takes Patty to a school dance, where he performs a dance he learned from an African cultural show on public television he mistakenly thought was the latest dance craze performed on "American Bandstand". At first, the other kids are mystified, but they soon join in, and Ronald's new "trendy" dancing further increases his popularity. On Halloween night, he and some jocks drive to the house of Kenneth, Ronald's best friend, where the jocks test his loyalty by coercing him to hurl dog feces at Kenneth's house. Kenneth is lying in wait and catches Ronald, but lets him go before his father can call the police. Kenneth ignores him the next day at school.

At a New Year's Eve party at Big John's house, Ronald starts drinking and has a romantic tryst with his date, Iris, in the bathroom. Cindy walks by and hears Ronald reciting her special poem to Iris. Devastated, Cindy starts drinking even more. Later, Cindy's boyfriend, Bobby, unexpectedly shows up at the party. After Bobby learns about Cindy's "relationship" with Ronald, he breaks up with her. Cindy tries to explain that Ronald paid her to pretend they were dating, but Bobby does not believe her and walks out on her. In a drunken rage, Cindy reveals the truth about her and Ronald to the partygoers, and Ronald is immediately ostracized. Dejected, he leaves and spends the night in his garage crying himself to sleep. When school resumes, he finds himself a social outcast, by both the jocks and the nerds. His attempts to reconcile with both Cindy and Kenneth are rebuffed.

Ronald gets an opportunity to redeem himself at lunch when he sees Quint, a jock, bullying Kenneth after noticing Kenneth helping Patty with her math homework. Quint threatens Kenneth with physical violence if Kenneth does not go back to "his side of the cafeteria." Ronald intervenes, threatening to break Quint's pitching arm if he does not leave Kenneth alone. Ronald points out that the three were all friends at one time: when they were nine, Quint fell out of their treehouse and broke his arm and Kenneth and Ronald carried him twelve blocks to the hospital. Ronald confesses he was desperate to run with the popular crowd but had messed up by trying to buy his way in (unlike Kenneth, who was helping Patty out of a genuine interest in her), that the clique dynamic is "all bullshit" and that it is tough enough just being yourself, and walks away. Quint apologizes to Kenneth and they shake hands as the whole school applauds. Ronald officially redeems himself with his friends and Cindy.

Recognizing Ronald's worth, Cindy chooses to spend an evening with him rather than hang out with her friends, hopping on the back of his riding lawnmower. Ronald then asks Cindy to prom, and they kiss for the first time, as the Beatles' title song plays. The new couple then ride off into the sunset on the lawnmower.

####Can't Hardly Wait####
In 1998, the senior class of a suburban high school, Huntington Hillside High, are attending a graduation party at a large house owned by a rich class member's family. Among them are Preston Meyers, a typical outsider who plans to proclaim his love to his four-year secret crush Amanda Beckett. Amanda, the most popular girl in school and the senior class prom queen, has recently been dumped by her popular jock boyfriend Mike Dexter. Mike is targeted by nerd classmate William Lichter, who is plotting revenge against him for years of relentless bullying. Preston's antisocial best friend Denise Fleming has no intention of going to the party, but is dragged along by Preston. Kenny Fisher is a wannabe thug who plans on losing his virginity by the end of the night.

Amanda is consoled by her popular girlfriends, whom she realizes she has nothing in common with, and her own second-cousin, who tries to hit on her. She tries to figure out if she has an identity beyond only being known as "Mike Dexter's girlfriend". She discovers a letter addressed to her by Preston and, moved by its contents, makes it her mission to find him, but she doesn't know what he looks like and no one she asks gives any helpful descriptions. Meanwhile, Denise and Kenny wind up locking themselves inside an upstairs bathroom away from the party by accident, where they talk about their old friendship and how they had drifted apart; their conversation leads to the restoration of their friendship and escalates into them having sex.

Later, an intoxicated Mike learns from Trip McNeely—a graduate and former stud from his high school—that in college, guys like them are "a dime a dozen". Trip emphasizes how he dumped his girlfriend in the same fashion that Mike did to "score" with other women and was unsuccessful. Terrified of this prospect, Mike tries to get Amanda back, but she is happier without him and humiliates him in front of everyone at the party. After seeing the school jock turned down, multiple men begin to hit on her, much to her disgust. Preston finds Amanda and confesses his love, but since she still hasn't learned what he looks like, she assumes he is another pervert and rejects him in front of the entire party as well. She later realizes her mistake when she sees Preston's yearbook picture and tries to find him, but he has already driven home in disappointment.

At the same time, William devises his plan to get revenge on Mike and goes into the party to drive Mike out. While inside the party, William begins drinking alcohol to fit in, and drinks enough to make him forget the entire reason he was there. An impromptu sing-along to Guns N' Roses' "Paradise City" causes him to become popular, with multiple women trying desperately to have sex with him. Soon after, William begins talking with Mike, who apologizes for bullying him. William forgives him; the two bond and seemingly become friends. When Mike and William are jailed as a result of a police bust, Mike takes the blame.

The next morning, when William sees Mike and his friends at a diner, he tries to thank Mike for taking the fall. But Mike acts as though he remembers nothing that happened the previous night and ridicules William in front of his friends. Meanwhile, Preston is at a train station about to leave for Boston when Amanda arrives and asks him about the letter. Preston confesses he wrote it and is about to depart for a writing workshop with Kurt Vonnegut. The two say goodbye and Preston walks away, but he then stops and runs back to Amanda and they share a kiss.

The epilogue explains what happened to all of the main characters:
* William became one of the most popular students at Harvard. He formed his own computer company that has made him worth millions, and he has been dating a supermodel.
* Mike went to college but, after drinking too much, lost his football scholarship. He ended up forty pounds overweight and working at a car wash, a job he lost when incriminating Polaroids surfaced.
* The day after the party, Denise and Kenny went to a diner; five minutes later, Denise dumped Kenny. Ten minutes later, they found a bathroom and got back together.
* Seven hours later, Preston finally boarded a train to Boston. Amanda wrote him a letter for every day that he was away. They are still together.

####Candy Jar####
In the principal's office of Hemlock Prep Academy, Lona Skinner internally monologues about her hate towards Bennet Russell, her fellow debate club member. They compete to be president of their two-person debate club as it would look good on their college applications; Lona - Harvard and Bennet - Yale. Ultimately, the principal declares them co-presidents, despite their protests.

At the debate tournament, Lona's mother, Amy, and Bennet's mother, Julia, are passive aggressive towards each other. Both Bennet and Lona make it to finals, and are declared co-champions as they are from the same school. The next day, they each send in their college applications.

Despite Lona's protests, Amy makes her dress for homecoming. Lona leaves the house, promising to go, but instead walks to the movies. She bumps into Bennet, who is also dressed for the dance. After the movie ends, Bennet offers Lona a ride home, and they get fast food, eating outside by the waterfront.

Their mothers are again hostile to each other next day at the regional qualifying tournament. Julia is meant to be a guest speaker, but Amy heckles her. Kathy, the school guidance counselor and their confidant, is told by both that their mothers are the reason neither qualified for the state championship. Kathy suggests maybe they just lost, but Bennet explains that the same happened in middle school twice. She tries to get them to work as a team to try and qualify in another round of state regionals, but neither wants to.

Bennet eventually tricks Lona into agreeing to team up, and they begin to study together. Together, they qualify for the state championship, but both worry about their college applications. Kathy makes them promise to have fun, no matter where they end up. The results come in later that night, and neither gets into their dream school. Julia tries to use her influence to get Bennet into Yale, only to infuriate Bennet.

The next day, both Lona and Bennet wait outside Kathy's office, but the principal approaches and informs them that Kathy died in a car crash. Bennet and Lona bond at Kathy's funeral, going out after for shakes and fries, where Bennet talks about how neither have ever really been high schoolers because they've been so busy with homework, tests, and debate.

Neither want to continue towards the state championship, but after talking with their debate coach Mr. Johnson, they agree to continue working together. They work cohesively, begin to bond and become friends. Two days before the state tournament, they kiss, before Lona pulls away. Meanwhile, Julia tries to make peace with Amy. The next day, Lona skips school, so Bennet goes over later and tries to talk about the kiss only to be shut down by Lona, who explains she doesn't know how to handle it. The following day at the state championship, they make it to the final, and compete against a team with an unconventional style. Lona begins to stutter, but recovers after she seeing a note from Bennet, reminding her of Kathy. She and Bennet agree with the other team, losing the state championship but becoming a couple.

On prom night, Julia and Amy prepare their children for the dance. It is revealed that Lona was accepted into Yale, and Bennet to Harvard. They skip the dance and instead go to the movies, where again Lona internally monologues about how much she likes him.

####The Cardboard Lover####
A group of American coeds/flappers arrives at the Hotel Venitien on the French Riviera. In the hotel lobby, Sally Baxter encounters Monsieur de Segurola, "the famous baritone", and asks him to write something in her autograph album. However, when she reads what he has written, she tears it out. Next, she spots handsome Andre Briault, "the famous tennis champion", and his girlfriend Simone. After Andre drives away, Sally notices Simone and de Sugorola making eye contact. (Albine, Andre's valet, does not approve of Simone either.)

When Andre later telephones Simone, he hears someone singing; Simone claims it is only a phonograph record playing, but then de Sugorola coughs. Andre heads over to the hotel to check up on her. She tries to distract him, but Andre spots de Sugorola trying to sneak out of her suite, tosses him out into the hall and breaks up with Simone.

The last part is witnessed by Sally. She chases after Andre to get his autograph, but her pen seems to be out of ink. After he leaves, she finds that there is ink after all; unable to get a taxi, she steals a car and follows him to the casino. There, she inadvertently loses 50,000 francs playing baccarat against him, and is asked to pay. She writes on a check that she has no money to speak of, and Andre good-naturedly tears it up.

Then Andre spots Simone. He is still in love with her, so Sally suggests he pretend to be in love with someone else. He thinks that is an excellent plan; he chooses Sally, telling her that this is how she can pay her gambling debt. He instructs Sally to never let him be alone with Simone and to not let him weaken. When Simone tries to win him back, he introduces her to his "fiancée", Sally.

However, he keeps falling for Simone's enticements. But Sally is extremely persistent, going to outlandish lengths to keep him out of her rival's clutches. Finally, she socks him in the jaw to stop him from chasing after Simone. He reacts by pushing her clear into the next room, knocking her unconscious. This finally makes him realize whom he truly loves.

####Career Opportunities####
Twenty-one-year-old Jim Dodge is a self-proclaimed "people person" and dreamer, perceived as lazy and good-for-nothing. After being fired from numerous low-paying jobs, Jim is given the choice by his father, Bud Dodge, to either land a job at the local Target or be sent to St. Louis to work for his uncle.

Jim is hired as a night cleanup boy at Target. On his first shift at his new job, Jim is locked alone in the store by his boss, the head custodian, who leaves him there until his shift ends at 7 am. He encounters beautiful Josie McClellan, a stereotypical "spoiled rich girl" whom he has known all his life. Josie had spent the past several hours asleep in a dressing room after backing out of shoplifting some merchandise in a half-hearted attempt to run away from her abusive father, Roger Roy McClellan.

Josie and Jim begin to connect with each other, realizing they are not so different. They begin to form a romantic relationship, and proceed to enjoy the freedom of having such a large store to themselves. Josie, having $52,000 in her purse, convinces Jim to run away with her to Los Angeles as soon as they leave the store in the morning. Meanwhile, Roger teams up with the town sheriff to search for his runaway daughter all night.

Two incompetent crooks, Nestor Pyle and Gil Kinney, break in and hold the two hostage. Eventually, Josie seduces one of the crooks and convinces him to take her with them after robbing the store. While the criminals are loading stolen merchandise into their car, Josie jumps into the front seat and drives away, leaving the two men stranded in the parking lot. Meanwhile, in the building, Jim loads up a shotgun found in the head custodian's locker and tricks Nestor and Gil by luring them to the back of the store and holding them at gunpoint.

In the morning, the sheriff arrives and stumbles upon the two crooks, having been tied up by Jim. Jim and Josie run away and are then seen lounging next to a pool in Hollywood.

####Carolina####
Carolina Mirabeau was raised 'free-spirited' with two sisters by eccentric, domineering grandma Millicent in the country. Carolina's city neighbor, talented and witty Jewish author Albert Morris, is her best friend, confidant and the wacky family's favorite guest. Yet she begins dating Heath Pierson, an 'all too perfect' upper class brilliant Britton, whom she met in the TV studio where she's fired as a dating show candidates-screener. But the past and some truths catch up with all of them.

####Casanova####
Giacomo Casanova has to give up law studies because he sleeps with his teacher's daughters. He tries the priesthood but seduces a young widow. He feuds with an Austrian noble, Razetta, after stealing the latter's mistress.

He is thrown into prison but escapes. He later helps the French king establish a lotto.

####Casanova####
A young woman tearfully leaves her son to live with his grandmother and promises to return for him someday. Several years later, in 1753, in Venice, Casanova is notorious for his promiscuity with women, his adventures being represented in puppet theatres around the city. The Doge, the ruler of the city, is a friend to Casanova, but cannot be too lenient on him as he wishes to avoid trouble with the Church. He warns Casanova to marry soon, or he will be exiled from the city. Casanova gets engaged to Victoria, famous for her virginity, to save himself from exile.

Casanova later meets and falls in love with Francesca Bruni, who writes illegal feminist books under the pseudonym of a man, Bernardo Guardi, and also argues for women's rights as Dr. Giordano de Padua. Francesca mistakes Casanova's name for Lupo Salvato (Casanova's servant) and Casanova humors her, since she hates the ill-reputed Casanova. Francesca and her mother are heavily in debt, and her mother pressures her to marry rich Paprizzio from Genoa, a union arranged by her late father. When Paprizzio arrives in Venice, Casanova lies to him and says that the hotel he booked is closed and he persuades him to stay at his house. Casanova also lies and says that he is indeed Bernardo Guardi. While Paprizzio asks his advice on how to impress Francesca, Casanova lures him to stay at home while receiving treatment for weight loss. Casanova visits Francesca, pretending to be Paprizzio and tells her that he lied to her before to make sure she is not in love with someone else and marrying him only for his money. Francesca is initially suspicious but gradually begins to trust him.


During the Venetian Carnival, Francesca recognizes the real Paprizzio from his publicity posters which force Casanova to confess his true identity making her angry. Casanova is arrested by the Venetian Inquisition for crimes against sexual morality, such as debauchery, heresy, and fornication with a novice. He saves Francesca by pretending to be Bernardo Guardi, which cools her anger. At his trial, Francesca confesses that she is the real Bernardo Guardi, and both are sentenced to death. Meanwhile, Francesca's mother and the real Paprizzio fall in love.

Just as Casanova and Francesca are about to be hanged in the Piazza San Marco, they are saved by an announcement that the Pope gave amnesty to all prisoners who were to be executed on that day, as it was the Pope's birthday. It is later discovered that the "Cardinal" who gave the announcement was actually an impostor who happens to be Casanova's stepfather, wedded to his long-lost mother who came back for him just as she promised when Casanova was a child.

As they all escape on Paprizzio's boat, Francesca's brother, Giovanni stays behind to marry Victoria and to continue Casanova's legendary womanizing. The real Casanova spends the rest of his life as a stage actor touring with his family and the Paprizzios.

####Casanova Brown####
Arriving in a small town Rossmore, Illinois by train, college professor Casanova Brown is met by his socialite girlfriend Madge Ferris and tells her not to bring up his trip to New York, where he was trying, unsuccessfully, to publish a book about the notorious 18th-century womanizer, Casanova.

Cas decides to ask Madge to marry him, even though her father J.J. warns him against it, saying Madge is nothing but trouble. Just before the wedding, Cas leaves town because of a letter from a Dr. Martha Zernecke summoning him to a Chicago maternity hospital, but promises to be back in time for the wedding. About the letter and what he believes is behind it, Cas tells J.J. of his New York experience with Isabel Drury, of how they fell in love and decided to wed, only to have Cas repeatedly upset Isabel's mother by insulting her belief in astrology, ignoring her warnings that their union would be cursed, then inadvertently burning down the Drurys' house with a smouldering cigarette, he having hid the cigarette in discovering Mrs. Drury's anti-smoking stance. The Drurys had the marriage annulled, but Cas suspects Isabel may have now had his baby.

At the hospital, Cas goes through a battery of tests unaware of what they are for. After he is told by a nurse that the tests confirm he is a specimen of good health, he meets Dr. Zernecke who tells him about Isabel having had a baby girl, his baby girl, and that the tests were for their records in Isabel putting the baby up for adoption. In Cas reuniting with Isabel who is still at the hospital, she confirms the baby is biologically his and that she is putting it up for adoption.

Cas disguises himself as a doctor and kidnaps the baby in not wanting Isabel to give their baby away. He hides out at a local hotel, in the process missing his wedding to Madge, and employs two of the hotel staff, Monica Case, a chambermaid, and Frank, the bell captain, to help him take care of the baby, they collectively who employ extreme care for the baby. Figuring he can keep the baby if he is married, he proposes to "plain Jane" Monica, who accepts. With the baby in tow, Cas and Monica head to City Hall.

Isabel confesses to Dr. Zernecke that the adoption was just a ploy to bring Cas to the hospital and discover how he really felt about her and the baby in wanting him back in her life. With Cas, Monica and Frank using whatever means to learn about proper baby care which included Frank unwittingly contacting the hospital, Dr. Zernecke and Isabel have been aware of Cas' location all along and knew the baby was safe. Isabel, Mr. Drury, J.J. and Madge descend upon the hotel concurrently to find Cas. Ultimately, Cas, Isabel and the baby are able to be alone with each other, and upon the fact that Cas and Monica are not married coming to light in they having to wait three days as is law in Chicago, Cas and Isabel decide to reconcile now as a family with their baby.

####Casanova Cat####
Tom heads to Toodles' home to woo her with flowers upon learning that she has recently inherited $1,000,000, dragging Jerry, tied to a bow, with him. Once inside, Tom winds Jerry into a doll and forces him to roll on a ball, impressing Toodles. Tom then blackens Jerry's face with cigar smoke and blowing it. He forces Jerry to tap-dance by lighting up a metal plate. Tom then gives Jerry as a present to Toodles, but asks for a kiss in return. Just as Tom and Toodles are about to kiss, Jerry jams Tom's tail into an automatic ashtray, causing Tom to scream in Toodles' face.

Jerry escapes to the window ledge and spots Butch singing a couple of lines from "Over the Rainbow" (his singing was provided by Jerry Mann) in a nearby alley and launches the newspaper headline towards Butch. Tom and Butch proceed to fight each other to win Toodles' heart, while Toodles, sitting on the couch, watches them. Butch slaps Tom (because he slapped him with his glove) into a fishbowl, but Tom ties Butch's tail to a pole. Toodles then tosses sweets into Tom's mouth, but Butch drops a bowling ball into Tom. Butch kisses Toodles' arm, but Tom places a mousetrap onto her arm to trap Butch's kissing mouth. Tom then traps Butch between two doors and kisses Toodles' cheek. Butch then grabs Toodles and goes to kiss her, but Tom also turns around to also kiss Toodles, but the two kiss each other instead and Tom turns around and attacks Butch in the face.

Jerry then kisses Toodles on the cheek, causing her to take an interest in Jerry. Tom and Butch chase Jerry, but Jerry hides in a vent, ties Butch and Tom's tails into a knot, and pull their tails to make them pull each other into the wall repeatedly. Butch then runs forward, squeezing Tom through the vent. Tom then pops out of the vent as a cube and bangs into Butch. Then they untangle themselves. Afterwards, they looked on the couch for Toodles and search for her. However, they then hear a noise outside. Both cats ran to the window to look at what is happening and see a car leaving. Toodles and Jerry are in the back seat, then after Jerry has put down the shade in the car, he and Toodles share a love-kiss.

####A Case of You####
Sam, a young New York City author, is dissatisfied with his life. Although his novelization of the blockbuster film "Teen Vampire" is popular, he does not want to write the other novelizations despite encouragement from his agent, Alan. Sam suffers from writer's block with his own work. He becomes is infatuated with Birdie, a street artist and barista at the local coffee shop, but does not know how to meet her.

After his roommate, Eliot, suggests checking Birdie's Facebook profile, Sam decides to pretend that he shares the interests she lists on her profile. He begins to learn how to play the guitar and cook French cuisine, and buys books by Walt Whitman and songs by Joan Baez. After pretending to accidentally meet at a comedy club Birdie mentioned online the two become friends and partners at a ballroom-dance class, and Sam begins to write a novel based on their relationship.

To spend more time with her Sam pretends to share Birdie's other interests, including pedicures and bourbon. They begin to fall in love, and Birdie accompanies Sam, Eliot, and Eliot's girlfriend, Ashley, to a spiritual retreat where they sleep together for the first time. Although Sam enjoys spending time with Birdie he finds participating in her many interests to be difficult, and is intimidated by her skill in such areas as caricature, singing, and rock climbing.

After Birdie tells Sam that she loves him and mentions her parents' plan to attend their impending dance recital, an insecure Sam discourages her interest in him. At a pitch meeting, Alan and another agent praise Sam's novel as a superb portrayal of a pathetic "eunuch" who, after foolishly breaking up with his girlfriend, is doomed to remain alone. Realizing that he has made a mistake, Sam rushes to the recital where Birdie is about to perform with another partner. He states his love for her and confesses to using her Facebook profile to adjust his public persona. She tells him that she knew all the time, even adding items to see whether he would respond. She decides to let each other begin from where they left off and Sam decides to give his book a happy ending. They begin to dance together.

####Casual Sex?####
Stacy has a promiscuous past and, after learning of the AIDS epidemic, she wants to find a man whom she knows is clean. She convinces her childhood friend Melissa to go to a health spa (or resort) for singles so that they can hopefully each find the man of their dreams. As a concierge gift, they receive a basket filled with condoms. At the spa, Stacy meets Nick, a struggling musician whom she is taken with, and also encounters Vinny, a.k.a. the Vin Man, an annoying Italian-American man from New Jersey whom she tries to avoid.

At the resort's International Night, the men and women all take miniature flags of various countries and put them in plunger-shaped hats, then meet the person with the identical national flag. After becoming demoralized by a bad experience at the flag party, Melissa writes a letter that she leaves for Stacy saying she is returning to LA. However, Melissa connects with a spa staff member, Jamie, who has taken an apparent liking to her and yet who is very sweet, respectful and supportive of her. Some days later, when they are intimate, she experiences her very first orgasm. Meanwhile, Stacy finds Melissa's letter to her and, thinking that Melissa has left the resort alone in frustration, immediately returns to LA herself via the 2:00pm bus, not knowing that Melissa has remained at the resort.

Stacy had taken Nick with her back to LA and, once there, falls back into old behavior patterns of being a crutch for men. She lets Nick move in with her to try to get his fledgling music career off the ground. However, Stacy soon realizes that Nick's quirky habits (e.g., not having a checking account or a credit card, carrying all his personal belongings in plastic trash bags), idiosyncratic ways of thinking (not having his life together at this age and stage of life), and his narcissism are things that she cannot adapt to. She realizes that she actually does not really like him or see him as the man she thought he was back at the resort. Upon learning that Melissa is back at the resort and never even left, she hurriedly rents a pink Cadillac and drives all the way back, where she accidentally walks in on Melissa in bed with Jamie. Outside the room, Melissa tells Stacy about Jamie and how they have bonded with one another. Stacy is relieved that Melissa is in good spirits now and is thrilled that she and Jamie have found each other.

Then Stacy tells Melissa that she realizes she made a big mistake with Nick and realizes she has to end it with him. Stacy finds the fortitude within herself to take the drive back to LA to tell Nick that their relationship will not work and that he must leave her apartment and her life. Leaving the resort, she comes across Vinny waiting near the exit with his luggage in tow. He flags her down and begs her to let him in the car so she can drop him off at the nearest bus station. He wants to leave the health resort as well and, without prompting, Vinny promises not to come on to her or do anything else of the sort. Reluctantly, Stacy lets him get into the car with her but, this time, he does not come on to her or act pushy and desperate. Instead, on the drive to the bus station, they speak frankly and candidly with each other about their disappointment with their experience at the health resort. Vinny lets his guard down and speaks plainly about how he really just does not understand the world of male and female relationships and how it all works. He asks Stacy, "How do you do it, this male, female, relationship thing? How do you do it?" Stacy shares that she is in "relationship hell" at the moment, which surprises Vinny (as he is and has been enamored of Stacy thus far, viewing her as a very desirable woman and an all-around winner). When she asks him what he looks for in a woman, she is touched by what he shares with her and gets a new, enlightened view of him (i.e., that there is more to Vinny than the desperate, pathetic, trying-too-hard act she saw in him at the resort). Upon returning to New Jersey and thereafter, Vinny experiences changes in his attitude toward women and how he sees his life moving forward. He keeps in touch with Stacy via handwritten letters, sharing with her the epiphanies he is experiencing and how he is becoming a different person and his life is advancing and improving.

Meanwhile, back in her home, Stacy has confronted Nick and told him their relationship will not work. Nick is taken aback, acts hurt, and defiantly says that he sees himself as on the way to making it big in the music business and way beyond even what she can ever envision and that she will regret her decision. She wishes him the best and he storms out with his belongings. At this point, Stacy is relieved that it has ended and she is determined to take a break from men-at-large for an unspecified span of time to sort things out in her head.

Some time later, Stacy visits Melissa and Jamie, who now live together in their own home. At the end of the evening, Stacy says goodbye to Melissa and Jamie. She walks home by herself, where she finds Vinny waiting for her in a fancy limousine.  He has gone into business for himself running a limousine service and owns a whole fleet of limousines. He shares with Stacy that he started driving from his home in New Jersey just to take a drive and, the next thing he knew, he found himself in Chicago, Illinois. He then asked himself, "Vinny, where are you going?" He says he realized that he was driving to see Stacy. He wound up driving all the way from New Jersey to southern California just to see her. Stacy is taken with this and yet, when he asks her if she would like to talk or go someplace together, she initially is hesitant and says to him that it was very late. Vinny, being a gentleman this time (in contrast with their past times together) acts with reserve and respectfully takes her cue. Stacy apparently is moved by this and, seeing how he drove all the way from New Jersey to California just to see her, she calls out to him and says that, if he likes, he can come home with her and she can make him breakfast. He pauses a bit, turns around, and says that he is rather hungry, accepts her invitation, and even offers to be the one who makes breakfast. He says he has a gift for her. He walks over to the limousine, opens the door, reaches in, and presents an adorable Golden Retriever puppy to Stacy. She falls in love with Vinny while the puppy is licking her face. They leave together with the new puppy.

The scene now moves six years ahead and shows Melissa and Jamie ringing the doorbell of Stacy's home for a social gathering.  Stacy and Vinny are now married with two small boys and a now-fully grown Golden Retriever. As Vinny is greeting Jamie with his two boys and dog and having a great time with all, Stacy and Melissa are at a distance standing together and looking toward their two significant others. They playfully tease each other as they always have throughout their many years as friends. Stacy says to Melissa, "There's your boyfriend." Melissa replies, "So what, there's yours." Finally, Stacy says to the camera, "Yeah, that's my boyfriend." They have each become content and fulfilled women who have both finally found the man of their dreams. They both smile and hug one another and the film ends.

####Catch and Release####
In Boulder, Gray Wheeler attends the funeral of her fiancé, Grady Douglas, on the day they were supposed to be married. Gray seeks solitude behind a shower curtain, and unfortunately hears Grady's best friend, Fritz, having sex with a caterer.

Eve, Grady's attorney, confirms that, as they were not married, Gray will get nothing. Grady secretly had an investment account with a million dollars in it, which Gray knew nothing about.

Gray realizes that she can no longer afford to rent the house that they had picked out. With the help of Grady's two close friends, Dennis and Sam, she puts her things into storage and moves in with them. Fritz, currently between directing commercials in California, also comes to stay, causing tension between him and Gray.

Gray discovers that Grady transferred $3,000 every month to an unknown person. Later, finding Grady's cell, she listens to a string of messages from a woman asking about money. Gray asks Fritz for answers (as it is a Los Angeles number), and he reveals that Grady had a son, whose massage therapist mother depended on the money he sent. Fritz tells Gray that the boy is eight and that he was conceived before she met Grady.

Gray is further troubled when Mrs. Douglas asks her to return the family heirloom engagement ring. She refuses and keeps it. The other woman, Maureen, and her son, Mattie, come looking for Grady. Gray sees Mattie is actually four, and realizes Grady was cheating on her. Confronting Fritz, they end up in a passionate kiss.

Gray does not want anything to do with Maureen, but the guys are reluctant to send the son of their dead friend away so quickly, so they all get to know each other over dinner. Trying to understand how Grady could secretly cheat on her, Gray blurts out her belief that "catch and release" fishermen are cruel and should just eat the fish.

Sam and Maureen have similar scattered personalities and connect well, but Sam stops her when she initiates sex while Mattie is near. Gray and Fritz become intimate. On a day trip to a river, Sam teaches Mattie to fly fish, while Dennis tells Gray he has feelings for her. He is upset to learn that Gray and Fritz hooked up, but she dismisses it as "less than nothing", not realizing Fritz can hear her. Believing she doesn't care, he returns to Malibu.

Mrs. Douglas insists Mattie take a DNA test before inheriting Grady's money; the test shows Mattie is not his. Maureen has no idea how to find Rafael, the man she had sex with a few days before Grady, and is unsure how to support Mattie without the money. Gray tells Mrs. Douglas to either give money to this child that Grady had loved as his own, or Gray will sell the family engagement ring to help Maureen support him.

Gathering at the dedication ceremony for the peace garden Dennis has built to memorialize Grady, Mrs. Douglas gives Maureen $1 million. She then tells Gray to keep the ring, as she just wanted her boy back. Dennis moves out and Maureen and Mattie move in with Sam, finding new support and keeping the Douglas family money. Gray goes to Malibu and finds Fritz playing with his dog on the beach&mdash;they embrace and kiss.

####Ceremony####
Sam Davis (Michael Angarano) convinces his former best friend to spend a weekend with him to rekindle their friendship at an elegant beachside estate owned by a famous documentary filmmaker (Lee Pace). It soon becomes clear that Sam is secretly infatuated with the filmmaker's fiancée, Zoe (Uma Thurman), and that his true intention is to thwart their impending nuptials. As Sam's plan begins to unravel, he is forced to realize how complicated love and friendship can be.

####Champagne for Caesar####
Beauregard Bottomley is a polymath who lives in Los Angeles with his piano-instructor sister Gwenn and an alcohol-guzzling parrot they found named Caesar (voiced by Mel Blanc). Beauregard is knowledgeable on any subject—except how to hold a job.

Beauregard and Gwenn watch a quiz show, "Masquerade for Money", hosted by Happy Hogan, and sponsored by Milady Soap. Each contestant dresses up in a particular costume, which  determines the type of questions asked, with the prize money doubling with each correct answer, starting at $5 and reaching a maximum of $160. A contestant can quit anytime, but an incorrect response results in no money won. Beauregard is contemptuous of the show.

A representative of the State of California Department of Employment encourages Beauregard to interview for a job at the Milady Soap Company. Beauregard meets the company's eccentric owner, Burnbridge Waters, who disapproves of Beauregard's humor and rejects him  To get even, Beauregard enters "Masquerade for Money", dressed as an encyclopedia, which means the host can ask him about anything.  Before the questions begin, Happy starts to praise the qualities of Milady Soap, but Beauregard says that it works just like any other soap, outraging Waters. Beauregard easily answers the maximum six questions, then requests one more, which he also answers, earning $320. Beauregard turns down the money and asks to return next week.

Waters invites Beauregard back for one question per show for six weeks and heavily publicizes it.  "Masquerade for Money" tops the ratings, and sales of Milady Soap skyrocket.

At the end of that time, Waters approves of giving Beauregard an impossibly hard question, but when Beauregard answers it correctly, Waters becomes uneasy. Happy offers to take piano lessons from Gwenn to try to find a weakness in Beauregard.  Beauregard sees through the scheme, but Gwenn sneaks out on a date with Happy anyway.  When Gwenn tells Happy that she and her brother think that he is just trying to get information from her, he admits that he is but also says that he is glad to have met her.  Gwenn tells Happy that Beauregard intends to win $40 million, to take everything that Waters has.  Happy tells Waters, who cancels the show and sends Beauregard a check for his current winnings ($40,000), which Beauregard refuses to accept.

Sales for Milady Soap plummet, forcing Waters to reinstate the show. Beauregard reaches $10 million. Waters calls in a scheming "Flame" O'Neill to distract Beauregard.  Beauregard catches a cold from being in a rainstorm, so Flame pretends to be a nurse to him. Beauregard is aware of, but nevertheless quickly succumbs to, Flame's charms (as does Waters). The night of the show, Beauregard states that he never mastered Albert Einstein's "space-time theories". The next question is, of course, about Einstein's views of space-time. Realizing Flame has betrayed him, Beauregard initially struggles but eventually comes up with an answer.  Happy says that it is incorrect.  However, Einstein himself telephones before the end of the show to say that the answer is correct. Afterward, Beauregard confronts Flame, who has fallen for him.  Unaware of this, Beauregard spanks her with her hairbrush and informs her that he deliberately misled her, that he actually "spent an entire season with Einstein", but also admits that he has fallen in love with her.

Waters books the Hollywood Bowl for the last show. Happy and Gwenn and Beauregard and Flame each plan to marry. Beauregard and Gwenn caution each other that their would-be spouses could be just after the money. Each calls and suggests marrying "before" the show, but Happy and Flame each come up with excuses.

For the final question, Happy asks Beauregard what his Social Security number is. Beauregard answers incorrectly. After the show, to the joy of Beauregard and Gwenn, Flame and Happy still want to marry them. Waters shows up at Beauregard's home, bearing gifts, including champagne.  (Caesar used to be Waters' pet.) As Beauregard and Flame drive to Las Vegas to get married, Beauregard reveals that he and Waters had made a deal in which Beauregard would lose in exchange for getting his own radio show, some stock, and other considerations. Beauregard was motivated to make such a deal because two Treasury agents had signaled their intent to tax a significant amount of his winnings.  Beauregard then admits that he actually did not know the answer.

####Chance of a Lifetime####
Workaholic Cleveland business owner Evelyn Eglin receives news from her doctor that she only has six months to live. She sets off on a vacation to Mexico where she meets a man named Lloyd Dixon, and the two fall in love. The pair are both widowers and spend time "learning to live again", but Evelyn soon finds out that her original diagnosis was wrong. Faced with the fact that she has longer than six months, Evelyn has to decide whether she wants to stay in a relationship with Lloyd.

####Chances Are####
Louie Jeffries, a young district attorney, is hit by a car and dies in 1964, but manages to slip by the pearly gates and is instantly reborn. In 1987, 23 years later, his widow Corinne still misses him, ignoring the frustrated devotion of his best friend Phillip Train, who has pretty much raised Louie's only daughter Miranda as his own. Miranda, while a student at Yale University, meets Alex Finch, who works in the library but is about to graduate.

After graduation, Alex heads to Washington, D.C., where he makes his way to the offices of "The Washington Post". His first attempts to meet with Ben Bradlee thwarted, he schemes his way into Bradlee's office by pretending to be a delivery man. Alex walks into Bradlee's office, with Phillip behind him. Confounded by the young man, Bradlee asks who he is. When Alex attempts to remind him of their meeting at Yale, Phillip vouches for him, which changes his mind about giving him a meeting. Unfortunately, Bradlee feels Alex needs more time working on smaller papers before he can offer him a job. Feeling defeated, Alex leaves his office.

Phillip finds Alex downstairs in the lobby, who offers Phillip a ride, during which Phillip invites Alex to meet the Jeffries family over dinner. While at the Jeffries' home, which he'd never previously been to, Alex begins to have flashbacks of a previous life. Anguished, he begins to act crazed and confused. Putting the pieces together, Alex realizes he is Louie Jeffries, Corinne's dead husband, reincarnated.

Miranda, wanting to continue the flirtation that started when they met, is confused when Alex rebuffs her and orders her to go to her room when she kisses him. Alex then goes to Corrine and tries to convince Corrine that he's Louie. At first she doesn't believe him, but he tells her details about their earlier life together that only Louie would know. She finally gives in and they kiss. They take a trip together away from town, but Corrine is a little disturbed when people think Alex is her son. Louie/Alex wants to make love, but Corrine reveals she hasn't had sex since Louie died.

One night when Alex and Corrine are together, they're caught by Phillip, who accuses Alex of being a gold digger. Louie/Alex then reminds Phillip he declared his love for Corinne to Louie on their wedding day. Phillip is confused and tries to punch Alex but he gets punched instead, knocking him out. Corinne rushes to Phillip's side, and yells at Alex to get out of the room. Louie/Alex realizes then that she loves Phillip too, and Louie must let go.

Corrine slips a note under Alex's door, saying she's sorry, and she'll visit him later. Alex puts the still-unconscious Phillip in his bed, so that when Corinne arrives, thinking he's Louie, she accidentally kisses Phillip. He's ecstatic, and Corinne realizes she loves him too. They make love.

Alex spends the night in his car. The next day, he bursts into a courtroom and accuses the judge of accepting a bribe (Alex remembers himself as Louie taking the incriminating photographs of the then younger judge back in 1964). Phillip, who's also in the courtroom, realizes only Louie would know that fact, and now believes Alex is Louie. Alex tells Phillip the location of his camera with the photographs of the judge accepting the bribe. Attempting to escape from the commotion in the courtroom, Alex falls down the stairs, hits his head, and ends up in the hospital. While unconscious, Omar the angel visits Alex, and gives him the special "shot" he should have gotten 23 years previous, to forget his past life.

When Alex wakes, he's completely forgotten about being Louie, and he tells Miranda that the last thing he remembers is their kissing in the kitchen of her house. Miranda is relieved and delighted. Newspaper headlines show the judge charged with accepting the bribe. Impressed by Alex's journalistic prowess in exposing the corrupt judge, Bradlee offers him a job as a reporter at the "Post". Corinne and Phillip get married, and at their wedding, Alex tells Phillip he's in love with Miranda, just as Phillip told Louie he was in love with Corinne on their wedding day all those years earlier.

####Charade####
While on holiday in the French Alps, Regina "Reggie" Lampert, an expatriate American working as a simultaneous interpreter, tells her friend Sylvie that she is divorcing her husband, Charles. She also meets Peter Joshua, a charming American.

On her return to Paris, she finds her apartment stripped bare. A police inspector says Charles sold off their belongings, then was murdered while leaving Paris. Their money is also missing. Reggie is given Charles's small travel bag, containing a letter addressed to her, a ship ticket to Venezuela, four passports in multiple names and nationalities, and other miscellaneous personal items. At Charles's sparsely attended funeral, three men show up to view the body. One sticks a pin into the corpse to confirm Charles is really dead.

Reggie is summoned to meet CIA administrator Hamilton Bartholomew at the American Embassy. She learns that the three men are Herman Scobie, Leopold W. Gideon, and Tex Panthollow. During World War II, they, Charles, and Carson Dyle were assigned by the OSS to deliver $250,000 ($formatnum:Inflation|US|.250000|1944|r=1 million in current dollars) in gold to the French Resistance, but instead stole it. Carson was fatally wounded in a German ambush, and Charles double-crossed the others, taking all the gold. The three survivors are after the missing money, as is the U.S. government. Hamilton insists Reggie has it, even if she does not know what or where it is&mdash;and that she is in great danger.

Peter finds Reggie and helps her move into a hotel. The three criminals separately threaten her, each convinced she knows where the money is. Herman then shocks her by claiming that Peter is in league with them, after which Peter says he is Carson Dyle's brother, Alexander, and is trying to bring the others to justice, believing they killed Carson.

As the hunt for the money continues, Herman and Leopold are murdered. Hamilton tells Reggie that Carson Dyle had no brother. When she confronts Alexander, he says he is actually Adam Canfield, a professional thief. Although frustrated by his dishonesty, Reggie still trusts him.

Reggie and Adam go to an outdoor market where Charles's last known appointment was. Spotting Tex, Adam follows him. At the stamp-selling booths, Adam and Tex each realize that Charles bought some extremely valuable stamps and affixed them to the envelope found in his travel bag. Both men race back to Reggie's hotel room, only to discover the stamps missing from the envelope. Reggie, who gave the stamps to Sylvie's young son, Jean-Louis, suddenly realizes their significance. She and Sylvie find Jean-Louis, but he has already traded the stamps to a dealer. They find the dealer, who says the rare stamps are worth $250,000 and returns them to Reggie.

Reggie returns to the hotel and finds Tex's body with the name "Dyle" scrawled next to it. Convinced Adam is the murderer, a frightened Reggie telephones Hamilton, who says to meet him at the Colonnade at the Palais-Royal. Adam sees her and gives chase. At the Colonnade, Reggie is caught out in the open between the two men. Adam claims Hamilton is really Carson Dyle: surviving the German ambush, he became obsessed with revenge and reclaiming the treasure. Reggie runs into an empty theater and hides in the prompt box. Carson is about to shoot her, but Adam activates a trapdoor under him.

The next day, Reggie and Adam go to the embassy to turn over the stamps, but Adam declines to go in. Inside, Reggie discovers that Adam is really Brian Cruikshank, a U.S. Treasury agent responsible for recovering stolen government property. With his true identity now revealed, he proposes marriage to Reggie.

The film ends with a split-screen grid showing flashback shots of Cruikshank's four identities; Reggie says she hopes they have lots of boys, so they can name them all after him.

####Charlie Countryman####
In Chicago, Charlie Countryman grieves as his dying mother is taken off life support. Her spirit appears to him, urging him to go to Bucharest, and Charlie does so. He bonds with Victor, the Romanian man sitting next to him on the plane, who is returning home after seeing a Chicago Cubs game. During the flight, Victor dies, and his spirit asks Charlie to deliver a gift and a final message to his daughter.

At the airport, Charlie is tased and questioned by security after trying to retrieve Victor’s gift. He is instantly smitten with Victor's daughter, Gabi, and consoles her before parting ways. Taking a taxi into the city, he notices Gabi in her car and offers to drive her. They nearly collide with the ambulance transporting her father’s body, which crashes. Gabi accompanies the body in another ambulance, leaving her car with Charlie, who finds a revolver in her purse with an inscription from “Nigel”.

He drives to the Romanian Athenaeum where Gabi performs as a cellist, and she calls him with instructions to deliver her instrument to the conductor, Bela. Charlie waits while Gabi performs with the pit orchestra, and they are confronted by her estranged husband, Nigel. Staying at a hostel, Charlie parties with his roommates Karl and Luc after they dose him with ecstasy, and is menaced by Nigel in the bathroom. Spotting Gabi, Charlie insists on following her and they spend the night out, sharing memories of their parents, and she promises him a kiss if he can find her the next day.

After Karl takes an overdose of Viagra, he and Luc bring Charlie to a strip club. They receive a bill for 9,900 Romanian leu ($To USD|9900|ROU) and are threatened by the manager, Darko, who notices that Charlie recognizes pictures of Nigel and Gabi on his wall. Demanding to know Nigel’s whereabouts, Darko lets them go. Charlie waits for Gabi at the Athenaeum, and Bela takes him to Gabi’s home, where a memorial is being held for Victor. Gabi and Charlie share the kiss she promised him, and he tells her about meeting Darko. Nigel barges in and threatens Charlie, but Gabi forces him to leave at gunpoint. Once they are alone, she explains to Charlie how she met Nigel, realizing he was a violent criminal after they married, and that her father forced Nigel to leave Bucharest with the threat of an incriminating videotape that Darko wants to obtain. Charlie confesses he is in love with her, and they have sex.

Waking up alone, Charlie finds a tape in Victor’s collection labeled “Cubs Win World Series - 1995”, revealed to be security footage of Nigel and Darko murdering a group of people. A shocked Charlie finds Gabi at a café with Nigel and declares to them that he watched the tape. Nigel nearly kills him before the police arrive, escaping while Charlie is taken into custody. Bela arranges to have Charlie sent to Budapest, bluntly stating that Gabi doesn't want to see him. Charlie is dropped off at the hostel to collect his belongings, but the owner warns him that men are waiting for him. Pursued by Darko’s henchmen, Charlie escapes to Gabi’s house only to find the tape missing. He is confronted by Darko, who has kidnapped and interrogated Karl and Luc. Gabi calls Darko to arrange a meeting, and he knocks Charlie unconscious.

Gabi finds Charlie outside the Athenaeum and tells him that he will never see her again. Having taken the tape, she prepares to leave with Nigel to meet Darko. Encouraged by another vision of his mother, Charlie tries to stop Nigel but is knocked out again. He is taken to the docks and hung by his ankle above the water, while Darko burns the tape. Nigel forces Gabi to shoot Charlie, but she spares him as the police arrive. Darko and his men flee, dropping Charlie into the water, while Nigel realizes Gabi loves Charlie and commits suicide by cop. Charlie emerges from the water alive and reunites with Gabi.

####Chasing Liberty####
Anna Foster is the daughter of POTUS James Foster. After Secret Service agents ruin a first date, Anna demands less supervision. For his upcoming trip to Prague, the president agrees to assign only two agents to watch over Anna, whose Secret Service codename is Liberty.

In Prague, Anna and her friend Gabrielle La Clare attend a concert, where she spots numerous agents in the crowd. Believing her father has broken his promise, she eludes her protectors with Gabrielle's help. Outside the theater, she asks Ben Calder for a ride on his motorbike. Unknown to Anna, Ben is a Secret Service agent, and he informs agents Alan Weiss and Cynthia Morales where she can be found. When the president learns of her behavior, he instructs Ben to guard her without revealing his identity, to give her the illusion of freedom while guaranteeing safety.

Believing she is finally free, Anna jumps into the Vltava River naked, mistaking it for the Danube, and she and Ben climb a rooftop to watch an Offenbach opera being shown in a plaza. The next morning, Anna calls her parents. Initially relieved his daughter is safe, the President's tone changes when he is shown photos of her skinny-dipping. Outraged at her father's tone, Anna decides she will go to the Love Parade in Berlin. She and Ben board a train, where they meet Scotty McGruff, a flighty romantic backpacker who gives them a stack of "Six Million Dollar Man" stickers, telling them to post them in random places. One day when they are unhappy, they may come across one and it will make them smile. Ben discovers that they have boarded a Venice-bound train going in the opposite direction from Berlin.

In Venice, after checking in with agents Weiss and Morales—who are now growing closer romantically—Ben joins Anna and McGruff and together they explore the city. McGruff disappears with Anna's wallet, she is recognized by tourists and she and Ben flee. With no money, they tell a kind-hearted gondolier, Eugenio, that they recently married against her parents' wishes. During the free gondola ride, Ben kisses Anna to hide her from their pursuers. When he learns the "newlyweds" have no place to stay, Eugenio invites them to his house, where they are welcomed by his mother, Maria. That night, thinking their kiss was heartfelt, Anna offers herself to Ben, but he rejects her advances.

The next day, Eugenio drives them to the Austrian border, as Weiss and Morales show up at Maria's house and are told that Anna and Ben are married, which is then reported to Anna's parents, causing confusion. Upset at Ben's rejection, Anna hitchhikes a ride in a truck, leaving him to chase her through the Austrian countryside. Anna comes to a bridge, where she meets the Jumping Germans, a bungee jumping group. Ben arrives just as she is being strapped into the harness, and insists on jumping with her.

Later that evening at the Jumping Germans' camp, one of the Germans invites Anna to share his tent for the night. She refuses and flirts with Ben, who rejects her advances again. Upset, she declares that she will share the German's tent after all; Ben finally admits his feelings for Anna and they spend the night together. At the Love Parade, as Ben explains his actions on the phone to his fellow agents, Anna discovers his identity. Enraged at the apparent betrayal, she runs off, only to be harassed by a group of men who recognize her. Ben rescues her, and Anna and her family return to the United States.

While preparing for college, Anna tells her mother her heart is "a little bit broken." At college, with Weiss and Morales (who plan to marry) still protecting her, she sees a "Six Million Dollar Man" sticker, reminding her of her European adventure. During Christmas break Anna's father tells her Ben resigned from the Secret Service and is working as a photographer in London. During an exchange program to Oxford University she visits him at the opera, where they kiss, reconcile, and escape on his motorbike.

####Chasing Papi####
The movie opens with an animated telling of Tomás Fuentes (Eduardo Verástegui)'s life, in which he is always surrounded by women. In his current life, he is a representative for the Olivero & Sanchez Marketing Group in Los Angeles and is busy travelling to visit all three of his girlfriends to give them each a gift. Cici (Sofía Vergara), a cocktail waitress from Miami who enjoys being the center of attention; Patricia Sofia Ordonez Coronado del Pescador (Jaci Velasquez), a debutante of New York's high society who is tired of her mother's (María Conchita Alonso) endless attempts to marry her off; and Lorena Morales (Roselyn Sánchez), a lawyer from Chicago who loves how Tomas makes her feel sexy; have fallen for him and given him the affectionate nickname "Papi". This love triangle of sorts affects Tomás's work life, causing him to pass out during a presentation. His doctor (Ian Gomez) learns of the love triangle, tells Tomás to choose only one woman, prescribes tranquilizers and advises against driving, alcohol, and women.

By coincidence, all three of his girlfriends go to Los Angeles after hearing their horoscopes read by fortune teller Walter Mercado on Univision's "Primer Impacto". The three women arrive at his house while he is at the doctor's. Instead of fighting each other, all three agree to leave and quit Tomas cold turkey as revenge for his cheating on them. In their absence, Tomás arrives home and takes his tranquilizers with alcohol. The girls each have second thoughts about leaving and return to confront Tomás directly. First Lorena, then Patricia and finally Cici, causing Tomás to overdose on alcohol and tranquilizers and pass out again.

Mary, Tomás' secretary, calls hoping that he is doing better. Outside Tomas' house, FBI agent Carmen Rivera (Lisa Vidal), is waiting. She followed Cici to Los Angeles as part of an investigation. Fala, Cici's business partner, had Cici do her boyfriend, Ricky, a favor by taking a car that he sold online to the buyer in Los Angeles. Ricky is involved in the Whittaker counterfeit ring that Agent Rivera is investigating. The girls spot her while panicking about what to do with Tomas and think she is "the L.A. woman" who just called, probably from a cell phone.

Scared by Agent Rivera's firearm, the girls decide to take Tomás out of the house and wait until he wakes up and decide which girl he wants to be with. They load all their bags in Ricky's car and, after a short chase, they decide to stay at a Marriott hotel instead of a Motel 6. Unfortunately, Patricia's credit cards have been canceled by her mother. However, Lorena is their saving grace. The Miss Latina American Beauty Pageant is being held in that very same hotel and Miss Puerto Rico's flight was delayed. Lorena bears a resemblance to the real beauty contestant and takes her place. Cici passes herself and Patricia off as her staff. When moving their bags to Miss Puerto Rico's room, a bag falls off the cart onto the luggage room floor. In the hotel room, all three girls have dinner, empty three bottles of champagne and share their life stories with each other. They each then have a dream in which they end up with Tomás but feel bad about leaving the other two behind.

The next morning, Lorena has to meet the judges and Cici has to deliver Ricky's car to a man named Rodrigo (D.L. Hughley) who apparently bought it. They leave Tomás but, in their absence, he's taken by Agent Rivera who has followed them to the hotel. It turns out Rodrigo was not interested in the car but a bag that was supposed to be in the trunk. Upon returning to the hotel with Rodrigo's associate, Victor (Freddy Rodriguez), the girls discover Tomás is missing and a note that reads, "If you want your Papi back, bring the money to the Don Quixote puppet at L.A. Latin festival at 5 PM. No cops."

Patricia knocks Victor out with a lamp and Cici calls Fala in Miami for answers about the car but doesn't get any. All that is left is to do what the note says. They are interrupted by Costas Delgado (Paul Rodriguez, uncredited), the director of the pageant, who has been looking for Lorena and needs her to meet with the judges immediately. Patricia finds the extra bag filled with money in the luggage room and Cici gets a map to the festival. Victor comes to, calls Rodrigo and they plan to catch the girls at the festival.

While Miss Mexico is being interviewed, Lorena unbuttons her blouse slightly to show off her cleavage and Costas helps her with her sash. During Lorena's interview, Patricia and Cici arrive but so does the real Miss Puerto Rico, who outs Lorena as an impostor. Cici trips her, allowing all three to escape. Tomás wakes up in Agent Rivera's car. Agent Rivera tells him she intends to use him and the girls in order to detain Victor and Rodrigo. They follow the girls to the festival as they leave in Ricky's car.

On the way, the girls' car breaks down completely. They steal a Harley-Davidson motorcycle, which Patricia knows how to drive, promising the owner to bring it right back. They lose both the map and Agent Rivera in another chase. Upon arrival, the girls see the puppet is behind the stage. Running through the crowd to avoid the cops, Patricia loses one of her colored contact lenses. Since she looks "so much better without all that money", she simply takes the other one out. Victor and Rodrigo spot them and the girls run on stage where Sheila E. is performing and dance to singer Christina Vidal's song, "Dejaré", regardless of their mixed dance backgrounds. Victor and Rodrigo get closer to the stage, causing the girls to run off mid-performance. They all run to the puppet, where Carmen and other FBI agents surround them and apprehend Victor and Rodrigo. Tomás is reunited with all three of his girlfriends. He apologizes to them for his deception and is unable to choose between them. The girls, however, have all found their inner strengths and choose to leave him instead. Tomás decides to take Agent Carmen's advice and spend some time alone after taking her out for dinner. Returning to the festival crowds, the girls are invited to return to the stage where they dance to Christina Vidal's song "It's All About Nothing".

The movie's timeline advances five months later and the girls have kept in touch. Patricia has moved into her own apartment with her dog Fifi and has gotten a job at an art gallery. Cici is an entertainer on a cruise liner with her business partner Fala. Lorena is still a lawyer working pro-bono but puts her time off to good use and becomes the self-proclaimed "Queen of Tango". Fifi hears her horoscope that advises her to "go outside the door because love is waiting for [her]." The movie ends with Fifi finding her "Puppy Chulo."

####Children of Pleasure####
Danny, an acclaimed singer and songwriter, falls in love with a socialite girl who he then overhears admitting that she is stringing him along just in time to avoid marriage. Danny is notably Jewish, and among the issues the film raises is his temptation to assimilate into the larger culture.

The film is an adaptation of a play that riffed on the real-life relationship between songwriter Irving Berlin and Long Island socialite Ellin Mackay, which was all over the gossip columns in the late 1920s.  Mackay's millionaire father cut her off and did not speak to her for years because, after a long courtship, she married Berlin, who was Jewish. (Unlike the fickle debutante in the film, Mackay stayed with Berlin, and their marriage lasted over sixty years.)

The film is played against a theatrical backdrop, and contains many songs and production numbers.

####Chilly Scenes of Winter####
Charles Richardson is a civil servant in his early thirties, working in the Department of Development in Salt Lake City, Utah. A depressed and impetuous romantic, Charles drinks on the job, lamenting this former lover, Laura, an administrative assistant in the office's filing department. Though their brief affair ended over a year ago, Charles remains obsessed with Laura, who has reunited with her husband Jim, a log-home salesman. Charles insists to his younger sister, Susan, and best friend, Sam, that he intends to win Laura back.

In nonlinear flashbacks, Charles reflects on his affair with Laura, and its swift disintegration, marked by jealousy and possessiveness: After he asked to marry her, Laura distanced herself from Charles. Following their breakup, the two briefly met in the parking lot of Laura's stepdaughter's school, but their meeting devolved into an argument in which Laura proclaimed to Charles that he has an "exalted" view of her that is not grounded in reality.

Consumed by his obsession with Laura, Charles frequently parks outside her and Jim's A-frame house, and at home constructs a miniature replica of it, complete with figurines and furniture. Sam, who is unemployed and staying with Charles, grows worried over his obsessive behavior. Meanwhile, Charles attempts to cope with his eccentric mother, Clara, who consumed by suicidal ideations, as well as his incredulous stepfather, Pete.

Charles learns that his coworker, Betty, has remained friends with Laura since Laura quit her job at the office. He casually attempts to court Betty, though his efforts prove unsuccessful as his feelings for her are not genuine. Charles visits Jim's custom home building company with Sam, the men posing as a gay couple under the guise of wanting to purchase one of Jim's houses. Jim allows Charles and Sam to view his home, shocking Laura, who returns during their tour. Jim explains to a visibly rattled Laura that Charles and Sam are lovers and potential clients. While Jim converses with Sam, Charles approaches Laura in the kitchen and hugs her. The four have drinks together in the living room, during which Charles startles Jim by proclaiming that he is in love with Laura, leading Jim to force the two men out of the house.

Weeks later, Charles is remorseful for his outburst, and decides to have dinner with Betty to distract himself. Charles is enlivened he learns from Better that Laura has again left Jim and moved into an apartment on her own. After retrieving Laura's phone number, Charles arrives at her apartment with a bouquet of tulips. Laura is ambivalent about his arrival, and wary of resuming a relationship with him given their past and the current tumult of her life. The two argue, and Charles eventually bids her farewell.

That night, Charles returns to his home and throws the A-frame replica dollhouse in the garbage, declaring that he is finally done pursuing Laura. Weeks pass as winter transitions into spring. One day after returning home from work, Charles finds Laura there, cooking a dessert soufflé in the kitchen.

####Christmas Cupid####
Sloane Spencer (Milian) is an ambitious and self-involved publicist in Los Angeles planning the premiere of her client Caitlin Quinn’s  (Benson) new movie, "Snow Angel", on Christmas. Sloane must make the event perfect in order to beat her ex-boyfriend Jason (Ryan Sypek) for a promotion to Vice President, even though Sloane is dating her boss Andrew (Burgess Jenkins), whose family owns the company. Sloane makes plans to work all of Christmas Day rather than spend time with her mother, Vivian (Jackée Harry), or have dinner with her friend Jenny (Ashley Johnson) and her husband Ed (Justin Smith) at their struggling restaurant.

When Caitlin chokes to death on the olive from a martini, her ghost visits Sloane, warning that she needs to change her ways or pay the price. Later, Andrew calls Sloane with the news that Caitlin has died. Sloane goes to the hospital to see the body for herself and runs into her ex-boyfriend Patrick (Murray), who is a doctor at the hospital. Upon seeing Caitlin's body, Sloane worries about the implications for the movie premiere.

The next day, Caitlin's ghost continues to follow Sloane around, interfering in her life. Andrew puts Sloane in charge of Caitlin's memorial, which Sloane decides to combine with the movie premiere. Consequently, everyone at the office has to work overtime, even on Christmas Day. Patrick calls Sloane and asks her out on a date, but she puts off having to give him an answer.

At midnight that night, Sloane is visited by the spirit of "ex-mas past", her first boyfriend, Brad (Patrick Johnson), who shows Sloane how her mother shaped Sloane's materialistic ways; he also reveals that Sloane left Patrick to focus on her career, right before he was going to propose. Since then, she has dated several men, always leaving when it started to become serious. Finally, Brad breaks the news to Sloane that Andrew is cheating on her.

The next day, Sloane dumps Andrew after he admits to cheating on her. Later, Sloane is only worried about how it will affect her career, making her competition with Jason for the promotion heat up even more. Sloane decides to use her dinner reservations that she had with Andrew to have dinner with Patrick instead. On the date, as Sloane and Patrick are about to kiss, Andrew arrives and proposes to Sloane. She says yes, completely forgetting about Patrick.

At midnight that night, Caitlin and the spirit of "ex-mas present", Jason, show Sloane how her thoughtlessness and self-absorption affects those around her. Sloane observes her secretary Ella (Cara Montella) telling her son that she will not be home on Christmas Day, Jenny and Ed talking about how Sloane takes Jenny for granted, and Vivian finding out that her husband will not be home for Christmas and she will be spending it completely alone. Last, Sloane discovers that Andrew was actually on the phone while talking to her about their engagement and sees how upset Patrick was. Both Caitlin's ghost and Jason's spirit want to show Sloane that if she does not change, she is going to end up alone.

The next day, Sloane attempts to fix the relationships in her life. She admits to Jenny that she forgot to put the gift certificates to help Jenny's restaurant in the gift baskets. Sloane then visits Patrick, who tells her that he "could never fall in love with her now".

As she is leaving the hospital, Sloane is visited by the spirit of "ex-mas future", who is dressed like Santa Claus. Sloane visits her mother's house where the maid is trying to convince Vivian to spend Christmas with her family, to no avail. She is spending Christmas alone with her dogs, one of whom she named after Sloane. She questions her mother's mental stability as she always seen Sloane as a person despite the two other dogs being considered her younger brothers. She learns that Vivian's marriage to her last husband fell apart and, since the dogs seem to love her more than Sloane does, Vivian has come to depend on them for support. Next, Sloane visits the future home of Jenny and Ed where they receive a Christmas card from her, which Jenny refuses to read. She discovers that Jenny's restaurant has failed, and she is now a waitress at Applebee's. Sloane also learns that, because her thoughtlessness, Jenny ended their friendship. Finally, Sloane visits the hospital, where she learns that she never sees Patrick again after accepting Andrew's proposal, and that he believes she is shallow and selfish. Sloane insists that she does care about love, and since she and Andrew are engaged, he would never become her ex. The spirit laughs at her and reveals himself to be Andrew, her future ex-husband, who left her because she valued her career more than him.

Inside the hospital, Sloane observes how happy the patients are to have family visit them on Christmas. Slone learns from Andrew that no one came to visit her because they were angry over how she willfully abandoned them in their time of need. As a result, she died alone, just as Jason and Caitlin predicted. Sloane begs Andrew to help her, but he refuses, saying she got what she deserved. Before leaving, Andrew suggests that had Sloane been more caring towards others, she would not have ended up alone.

Sloane wakes up on Christmas Day, determined to fix her life. First, she reconciles with her mother and goes to Jenny's for dinner. Then she goes to the movie premiere/memorial, where she lets Ella go home for the day; and puts all the gift certificates for Jenny's restaurant in the gift baskets. The event is a success and Sloane gets the promotion to Vice President. Once Andrew decides to tell her the good news, Sloane finds a Bluetooth speaker in his ear. Discovering that he had secretly spied on her and Patrick at the restaurant with the woman he cheated on her with, she dumps him. Having accomplished her mission, Caitlin gets her wings and goes up to Heaven after saying goodbye to Sloane. As Sloane is leaving, she and Jason make peace.

At the hospital, Sloane apologizes to Patrick and professes her love for him. Patrick is doubtful and upset that she embarrassed him in public. Sloane tells him that she and Andrew are done for good and she realizes how much she hurt Patrick. In the end, Patrick forgives her and joins her at Jenny's for dinner, where Sloane makes a Christmas toast, surrounded by her loved ones.

####Christmas in Connecticut####
Elizabeth Lane (Barbara Stanwyck) is a single New Yorker, employed as a food writer. Her articles about her fictitious Connecticut farm, husband, and baby are admired by housewives across the country. Her publisher, Alexander Yardley (Sydney Greenstreet), is unaware of the charade and insists that Elizabeth host a Christmas dinner for returning war hero Jefferson Jones (Dennis Morgan), who read all of her recipes while in the hospital and is so fond of them that his nurse/fiancée Mary Lee (Joyce Compton), wrote a letter to the publisher. Facing a career-ending scandal, not only for herself but for her editor, Dudley Beecham (Robert Shayne), Lane is forced to comply. In desperation, Elizabeth agrees to marry her friend, John Sloan (Reginald Gardiner), who has a farm in Connecticut.  She also enlists the help of her chef friend and "honorary uncle" Felix Bassenak (S. Z. Sakall), who has been providing her with the recipes for her articles.

At Sloan's farm on Christmas Eve, Elizabeth meets Norah (Una O'Connor), the housekeeper, as well as a neighbor's baby whom they pretend is their baby. Elizabeth and John plan to be married immediately by Judge Crothers (Dick Elliot), but the ceremony is interrupted when Jefferson arrives early. Elizabeth is smitten and it is love at first sight.

The judge returns on Christmas morning, but the ceremony is postponed when a different neighbor's baby is presented instead of the one from the day before. The household is alarmed when Felix claims that the baby has swallowed his watch.  After the judge leaves, Uncle Felix admits to Elizabeth that he had lied about the watch to stop the wedding. While the household attends a local dance, the baby's real mother arrives to pick up her baby. Alexander witnesses her leaving with the child and assumes someone is kidnapping the baby. Elizabeth and Jefferson spend the night in jail, charged with stealing a neighbor's horse and sleigh they had accidentally taken a joyride in, and return to the farm early the next morning. Alexander chastises Elizabeth for being out all night and accuses her of neglecting her child. Elizabeth finally confesses all. Furious, Alexander fires her.

Mary Lee arrives unexpectedly. Dejected, Elizabeth retires to pack her things and leave the farm. Felix learns that Mary Lee has already married someone else and must break the engagement. He entices Alexander into the kitchen with the smell of cooking kidneys. He fabricates a story about a competing magazine's attempts to hire Elizabeth, and Alexander decides to hire her back with an increase in salary.  Felix tells Jefferson that he is free to pursue Elizabeth. Elizabeth's packing is interrupted, first by Alexander, and then by Jefferson. After teasing her that he is a cad who woos married women, Jefferson reveals the truth. The couple kiss and plan to marry.

####Christmas in Connecticut####
Elizabeth is the star of a successful cooking show and author of several cookbooks. Alexander, her manager, sees a heroic forest ranger named Jefferson on the television news, saying he has lost his cabin in a fire and wishes he could get a home-cooked Christmas dinner. Alexander arranges for Elizabeth to do a special live show on Christmas, where she will cook a Christmas dinner for Jefferson. In reality, Elizabeth can't cook and trying to keep Jefferson and the viewing public from finding out may be a little difficult, especially on a live show.

####Christmas in July####
Dr. Maxford is thoroughly exasperated; he is supposed to announce on national radio the winners of a slogan contest for his Maxford House Coffee, where the first prize is $25,000. Maxford's jury is deadlocked by the stubborn Mr. Bildocker. As a result, the program ends without an announcement.

Office worker Jimmy MacDonald dreams of winning, hoping to validate himself, provide some luxuries for his mother, and marry his girlfriend, Betty Casey. Betty does not understand his slogan: "If you can't sleep at night, it's not the coffee, it's the bunk."

As a joke, three of his co-workers place a fake telegram on Jimmy's desk informing him that he has won. Jimmy's boss, J. B. Baxter, is so impressed that he promotes Jimmy on the spot to advertising executive, with his own office, a private secretary, and a raise. Tom Darcy, one of the pranksters, tries to clear things up before they go too far, but loses his nerve.

When Jimmy arrives to collect the check, Dr. Maxford assumes his committee finally reached a decision without informing him and writes a check to Jimmy. Jimmy and Betty go on a shopping spree at Shindel's department store. After telephoning Maxford to confirm the check is good, Mr. Shindel gives Jimmy credit to buy an engagement ring for Betty, a luxury sofa-bed for his mother, and presents for all of their neighbors.

When the truth comes out, Shindel descends on Jimmy's street to try to repossess his merchandise. Maxford follows them and confirms Jimmy did not win. In the commotion, Shindel learns that Maxford's signature is genuine; instead of reclaiming the merchandise, he tries to force Maxford to pay for it. Tom and the other two pranksters admit they are to blame.

That night, Jimmy and Betty confess to Baxter. Betty's heartfelt plea persuades Baxter to let Jimmy try to prove himself and keep his promotion, although on a very short probationary period and with no raise. Meanwhile, Bildocker bursts into Maxford's office to announce that the other jury members have finally given in and accepted his choice for the grand prize winner: Jimmy.

####A Christmas Prince####
Just before Christmas, an aspiring young American magazine journalist, Amber Moore, is sent to the foreign nation of Aldovia to cover a press conference given by Prince Richard, who is set to take the throne following his father's recent death. Richard has been portrayed in the press as an irresponsible playboy, and he is also rumored to be planning to abdicate. Amber hopes her work in Aldovia will lead to a big break, and she heads to the royal family's palace for the press conference, but the prince fails to appear. Refusing to leave with the press pack, Amber decides to snoop around the palace and while doing so is mistaken for young Princess Emily's new American tutor, Martha Anderson. Amber plays along and assumes Martha's identity in order to investigate the rumors of abdication.

Emily, who has spina bifida, tries to prank Amber into quitting, but warms up to her after Amber treats her like a normal student rather than an invalid. As Emily's tutor, Amber meets the royal family, including Richard, who she realizes is the man she insulted earlier at the Aldovian airport after he stole the taxi she was about to get into. Amber becomes attracted to Richard after learning that contrary to rumors he is a compassionate and responsible man, though he is indeed reluctant to take the throne. During this time, Amber learns from Emily that Richard's scheming and jealous cousin Simon is next in line for the throne, which he sorely wants; Amber also encounters Richard's beautiful ex-girlfriend Sofia, who Richard suspects was only interested in him for his future title.

Emily learns the truth about Amber's identity, but agrees to keep it secret so long as Amber writes a story that exposes Prince Richard for the good man that he is. In pursuit of her story, Amber follows Richard on horseback through the woods, but her horse throws her off, and she is nearly attacked by a wolf, only to be saved by the prince. Richard takes Amber to his father's old hunting cabin, where he reveals that after he told his father he was going to renounce the throne, they had a fight and that the king died soon after. Richard then shows Amber a mysterious poem written by his father, and the two almost kiss but are interrupted by the sound of neighing horses.  After Richard leaves to check on the animals, Amber searches the late king's desk and discovers a hidden compartment holding documents proving that the Prince was secretly adopted; she hides the documents and takes them back to the palace.

Amber is reluctant to reveal the truth as it would deeply hurt Richard, but decides to tell him during a walk. Richard interrupts her confession with a kiss, and Amber realizes she is in love with him. At the same time, a suspicious Sofia and Simon search Amber's room and discover her true identity and Richard's adoption certificate. At the Christmas Eve Ball, as Richard prepares to be crowned, Sofia reveals his adoption certificate and Amber's true identity. Simon asserts himself as next in line for the throne as Richard storms off and rebuffs a repentant Amber's apologies, and she tearfully leaves the palace. Later, the queen reveals to Richard that she adopted him after being told she could not have children, and that she regretted not telling him sooner, but that she and the king considered him their true son. Richard forgives his mother for her deception and promises to not let Simon win the throne so easily.

Simon marries Sofia, but learns he cannot be crowned until the queen is available to preside over the ceremony. Meanwhile, Amber suspects that she can prove Richard is the rightful king based on clues from his father's poem. She is allowed back into the palace and, in a Christmas ornament made by the late king, finds a secret proclamation that declares Richard as the rightful heir. Amber takes the document to the official chamber where Simon is being crowned and arrives in time for Richard to be crowned instead; she quietly leaves Aldovia after the ceremony.

Back home, the magazine Amber works for refuses to publish her story on Richard, calling it a 'puff piece'. In anger, she quits the magazine, deciding to blog about the true Richard instead. Her blog becomes popular and eventually gains the attention of Richard himself. Amber is spending New Year's Eve at her father's New York City diner when Richard surprises her. He tells Amber that he is truly in love with her and proposes, which she happily accepts.

####A Christmas Prince: The Royal Baby####
One year after the events of the last film, King Richard and Queen Amber of Aldovia are preparing to welcome their first child. During a press conference, the royal couple tell the public they do not know the gender of their baby and keep all possible names secret, even from their family. Richard’s previously villainous cousin, Simon, who is still trying to regain his family’s trust, reveals he invited Melissa, Amber’s close friend, to Aldovia for Christmas. Melissa tells Amber she and Simon are in love, much to Amber's surprise.

Amber and Richard prepare for the signing of a treaty which honours the peace found between Aldovia and their greatest ally, Penglia. On Christmas Eve 1419, both Prince Claude of Aldovia and the Penglian Prince Jun signed the treaty, ending an ongoing feud between them. It has been renewed every 100 years since. Amber is excited to be the first Aldovian queen to sign it, but she is told the Penglians will not permit this.

On 20 December, King Tai and Queen Ming of Penglia arrive in Aldovia. Amber tries to convince Ming the two of them should join their husbands in signing the treaty, but Ming refuses. Before the royals can sign the treaty, they discover it has been stolen. Since a blizzard has closed all airports, Amber and Richard deduce the treaty must still be in the palace, along with the thief. The palace staff  launch an investigation. Meanwhile, Richard’s sister, Princess Emily, learns about an ancient legend that states a deadly curse will befall the firstborn child of the monarchs responsible for breaking the treaty. She realises that would be Amber and Richard’s baby.

As Amber worries about the deadline for completing the tradition approaching, her dad, Rudy, convinces her to throw her baby shower despite the blizzard stopping the majority of the guests from getting there. With the help of Sahil and her old friend Andy, Amber enjoys a beautiful baby shower. Ming gifts her a handmade present, and Tai helps Richard build the baby's crib. He tells Richard he is more than willing to let Amber and Ming sign the treaty, but says that Ming is worried that by doing so, her country will think she seeks credit. At the shower, Ming and Tai's attaché, Lynn, bonds with Simon over their Oxford days together, which makes Melissa jealous.

As Christmas and the deadline for the signing of the treaty approach, Richard brings in a sniffer dog to locate the treaty. While the dog searches, the family visit Aldovia's Christmas market. The Penglians are impressed by how loved and respected Amber and Richard are by their people. Mr. Zabala reports that the dog’s search came out futile. Overwhelmed, Amber faints.

Back at the palace, Amber assures Richard she is fine, but he advises her to rest. Emily arrives and tells the couple about the legend. While Richard rebuffs it as superstitious nonsense, Amber is terrified and refuses to give up looking for the treaty. Melissa spies on Simon and Lynn and retrieves a discarded piece of paper Simon threw away. She shows Amber and Richard, and they are shocked to discover it is a detailed account of Aldovia's debt to Penglia over the years. While Aldovia's latest economic scheme has reduced it drastically, the kingdom still owes its allies $1 billion and, if the treaty is not found, Aldovia would owe it immediately. Amber pleads with Melissa to make sure Simon doesn’t suspect anything and, despite being heartbroken and feeling betrayed, she agrees.

Just then, Amber goes into labor. Richard summons Dr. Magoro to the palace, but the doctor's car becomes stuck in a snow bank. Richard sets out on horseback to rescue her. Queen Ming, who worked at a maternity hospital, and Melissa guide Amber through her contractions. Amber realises something, and instructs Emily to search the castle dungeons with her mother, Queen Helena. While searching, the pair are trapped in a cell. Richard finds Dr Magoro, and they hurry back to the palace. Trying to escape, Emily and her mother find the missing treaty hidden under a stone. Using her hair clip, Helena frees them both.

With the treaty found, the kings prepare to sign. Ming decides she wants to add her name to the treaty as well, much to the delight of Amber. At 11:59 pm on 24 December 2019, King Richard, King Tai, Queen Ming and Queen Amber sign the treaty. Amber reveals the culprit behind the treaty’s disappearance: Mr Little. She discovered that Mr Little’s mother’s maiden name was Devin, the same surname as Prince Claude, who was allegedly poisoned by Prince Jun following the original signing of the treaty. Claude’s family swore vengeance. Little confesses, but swears he never intended to harm the royal baby. Helena has Little sent to the dungeons. Despite this, Melissa demands to know why Simon had the accounts for Aldovia's debt. Simon reveals he and Lynn were trying to add economic amendments to the treaty which would benefit both kingdoms. He then pulls out a ring box and proposes to Melissa, who happily accepts.

Amber’s contractions intensify, and Doctor Magoro orders everyone except Richard out of the room. With Richard’s help, Amber gives birth to a healthy baby girl, whom the couple name Princess Elleri after Amber’s late mother. Elleri's birth is officially announced to the public. The film closes with Amber writing her last blog post, thanking her readers for supporting her through the years and, on behalf of Richard, Elleri and the whole of Aldovia, she wishes everyone a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.

####A Christmas Prince: The Royal Wedding####
One year after the events of the first film, Amber and Richard are still happily engaged. Amber's news media company that she worked for went out of business and her friends are unemployed. At Christmastime, Amber and her father, Rudy, travel to Aldovia to plan Amber's wedding. Amber continues to blog about royal life with Richard.

Amber becomes overwhelmed with the dictatorial traditions of royal protocol and lack of control over her own wedding, which is controlled by the flamboyant designer Sahil and Mrs. Averill, as Richard struggles with the failing implementation of his Aldovian economic revitalization program, the New Aldovia initiative, which is mysteriously hemorrhaging money from the monarchy as unemployment and low wages afflict the increasingly discontent populace. To assist in the economic efforts, Queen Helena brings in Lord Leopold to assist Richard, as Leopold had been planning aid efforts with Richard's late father. Meanwhile, Simon, impoverished due to his divorce from Sophia, also returns to beg to be brought back into the palace; a resentful Richard reluctantly accepts, as Simon is family.

Amber and Richard's relationship grows strained as Richard becomes increasingly distracted with royal demands, and Amber refuses to kowtow to Mrs. Averill's strict guidelines. After Princess Emily's play is cancelled due to a strike by governmental workers, Amber hosts the play at the palace. While the move was well-received, Amber becomes furious when Mrs. Averill takes down posts from her blog about the affair due to their casual nature, and is further upset when Sahil and Mrs. Averill demand she remove her locket (containing her late mother's photo) for a royal portrait.

After receiving a bitter Christmas card from an unemployed worker, Amber investigates the royal finances with her friends, who have come to celebrate her wedding. She learns that the New Aldovia initiative has been failing because a group of new companies has been outbidding local workers and taking the money out of the country. During a paparazzi ambush, she's saved by Simon, who wants to help investigate the economic issue. With Emily's help, the group hacks into a site that the shell companies are owned by an association, Glockenspiel Consortium. Mrs. Averill confronts Richard and Amber over paparazzi photos of Amber at a bar while investigating, and Amber admits to the sleuthing. When Richard fails to defend her against Mrs. Averill, she storms out. Richard admits his failings as a fiancé to Emily, and after finding Amber, the two reconcile.

During a royal celebration, where Helena gives Amber the blessing to have the ceremony she wants, the group reveals that Glockenspiel Consortium is owned by Leopold, who is accosted and thrown into the palace dungeon. Richard gives a Christmas address that promises holiday bonuses to all Aldovian workers, and the populace celebrates. Richard and Amber finally marry in a ceremony that blends tradition with modernity, and everyone celebrates as Richard and Amber leave to share a private kiss.

####The Christmas Setup####
Lawyer Hugo Spencer returns home to Milwaukee with best friend Madelyn McKay over Christmas. His mother, Kate Spencer, immediately sets up a list of chores and Christmas activities for her sons, Hugo and Aiden, who returns later that week. While there, Hugo runs into Patrick Ryan, a boy he crushed on in high school. Kate sets Hugo and Patrick, trying to match them up, much to Hugo's embarrassment. Hugo finds out the neighborhood's landmark train station will soon be demolished and rushes to save it. Hugo and Patrick connect and finally have their first kiss under the northern lights.

Hugo receives a call from his boss regarding the senior partner position he had been hoping for. His boss gives him the promotion, on the condition that he relocates to London to open their new office. Hugo takes the opportunity into consideration, distressed by the idea of leaving his home country, family, and Patrick. While at family Christmas trivia game night, Madelyn accidentally tells everyone about Hugo's new job, forcing Hugo to seriously reconsider his decision. Aiden and Maddy become a couple while Hugo finds the paperwork needed to save the train station. At the train station's party, Hugo decides to decline the job and begin a long distance relationship with Patrick.

The movie ends with Kate filming Hugo and Patrick as they kiss outside the train station.

####Cinderella Blues####
A weepy feline Cinderella sits around in her murky house. Cinderella, or Cindy which she is sometimes called, hardly does anything other than household work under the authority of her bossy old stepmother. She also longs for a more pleasant livelihood.

While standing in the living room one day, a pixie appears and asks Cindy if she would like to go to the ball. Cindy expresses interest but laments she has nothing to wear. The pixie puts forth a wand and transforms her rag outfit into a fancy dress. A luxury car with classy chauffeurs also appears, and the delighted young girl cat goes aboard.

The ball appears to be inside a castle. Cindy's date turns out to the prince, who is dressed like a 16th-century Spaniard. They then walk to the main room, where musicians and other dancing guests are in attendance. After dancing, they head to a backyard which is like a forest. When the prince kisses her twice, Cindy merrily starts distancing herself and goes to hide in the trees. While the prince struggles to find her, Cindy heads to a nearby clock, therefore finding out she has to leave immediately. As she flees, one of her shoes slips off and is left behind. The shoe is momentarily picked up by the prince, who arrives at the scene.

Cindy leaves in her car, attempting to reach home. But when midnight strikes, she is reverted to her old rag clothing, and her once-luxurious vehicle is reduced to some 1890s Daimler model, with her being the one driving it. The car momentarily breaks down, prompting Cindy to run on foot. While she goes on running, an anchor lowers and picks her up. It appears the one who lifted her is the prince, who is on a helicopter. The prince then holds out the shoe he found, and places it on Cindy's foot. As a miracle, Cindy is in her fancy dress again. They then kiss each other and fly back to the castle.

####A Cinderella Story####
Samantha "Sam" Montgomery is raised by her father Hal, who runs a diner in the San Fernando Valley. Hal dies in the 1994 Northridge earthquake apparently without leaving a will, leading Sam's vain and greedy stepmother Fiona to inherit everything. Eight years later, 17-year-old Sam is tormented by Fiona and her twin daughters Brianna and Gabriella, while the community faces a drought. Sam and her best friend Carter, an aspiring actor, are bullied by the popular clique at school, led by head cheerleader Shelby. Forced to work at the diner to save money to attend Princeton, Sam is looked after by longtime manager Rhonda, and confides in her online pen pal "Nomad", who shares her dream to attend Princeton to become a writer. Unbeknownst to Sam, "Nomad" is Austin Ames, the popular but unhappy school quarterback and Shelby’s boyfriend, whose father expects him to attend the University of Southern California.

Sam agrees to meet "Nomad" at the school Halloween dance, and Austin breaks up with Shelby. Fiona refuses to give Sam the night off to attend the dance, but Rhonda and Carter intervene, and Rhonda gives Sam a mask and wedding dress to wear as "Cinderella". Dressed as "Prince Charming", Austin reveals to Sam that he is "Nomad" but does not recognize her under her mask, and they share a romantic dance. A masked Carter makes out with Shelby after defending her from the unwanted advances of Austin’s friend, but is forced to drive Sam back to the diner before Fiona discovers she is gone. As they leave, Sam drops her cell phone, which is found by Austin, as he and the missing Cinderella are named homecoming prince and princess. The diner staff stall Fiona and her daughters, and Sam arrives just in time, thankfully avoiding having Fiona come into the kitchen to confront her as she was still wearing the dress under her normal clothes.

The next day, Austin covers the school in flyers, hoping to identify the mysterious Cinderella, and Carter is cruelly rejected by Shelby. Austin’s friends present him with a crowd of girls claiming to be Cinderella, without success. He is accepted to Princeton but unable to tell his father, and visits the diner, where Sam tries to tell him the truth. Brianna and Gabriella discover Sam’s emails with Austin, realizing she is the mystery homecoming princess. After failing to convince Austin that they are each Cinderella, the twins present the emails to Shelby, convincing her that Sam schemed to steal Austin away from her. At the school pep rally, Shelby and the twins perform a humiliating skit exposing Sam as Cinderella, and she goes home in tears.

Having intercepted Sam’s acceptance letter from Princeton, Fiona forges a rejection and feigns sympathy, telling Sam she has a job at the diner for life. Rhonda encourages Sam not to lose hope, and her stepsisters inadvertently uncover a wallpapered-over mural of Hal’s motto. Inspired, Sam finally stands up to Fiona and quits the diner, leading Rhonda, the rest of the staff, and even the customers to leave as well. Moving in with Rhonda, Sam confronts Austin for being afraid to show who he really is, just before the homecoming game. Seeing her leaving before the final play of the game, Austin stands up to his father and runs after Sam. He apologizes, and they share their first kiss in the rain as the drought suddenly ends.

Sam finds her father’s will hidden in her childhood book of fairy tales, revealing that everything was left to her, including the diner. As the rightful owner, Sam is able to sell her stepfamily’s belongings to pay for college, while Fiona claims to have never seen the will before, despite having signed it as a witness. Arrested for fraud and violating California child labor laws by the LAPD and D.A., she is forced to work off her debt at the diner, now co-owned by Rhonda, and is joined by her daughters, who retrieve Sam's acceptance letter from the trash. Carter lands a commercial, and rejects Shelby for Astrid, the school’s goth DJ and announcer. Austin returns Sam’s cell phone, and they begin a relationship, driving off to Princeton together.

####City Limits####
In a variation of "Captains Courageous"ref needed|date=March 2023, J.B. Matthews (Frank Craven) president of a railroad, is getting sick of doctors, when he falls off his train, and meets up with a pair of hoboes, King (James Burke) and Napoleon (Jimmy Conlin), who show him how to enjoy life, and real cooking. It's up to intrepid reporter Jimmy Dugan (Ray Walker) and Helen (Sally Blane) to find him, and bring him in. The hope is that they do it before a rival ruins him. However, time is running out.

####Clambake####
Scott Hayward (Presley) rebels against the plans and expectations of his father, extremely rich oil tycoon Duster Hayward (Gregory). He drives to Florida in his red 1959 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray Racer to find himself. When Scott stops for gas and refreshments, he encounters Tom Wilson (Hutchins), who is on his way to take a job as a water skiing instructor at a Miami hotel. A chance remark by Tom gives Scott the idea to switch identities with Tom so he can find out how people react to him as an ordinary person rather than as a millionaire. Tom has fun staying at the same hotel and pretending he is rich.

Shortly after, hotel guest Dianne Carter (Fabares) insists on taking a lesson minutes after Scott checks in with his new "employer". However, once they are out on the water, Dianne proves herself to be an expert skier, performing fancy maneuvers to gain the attention of wealthy young playboy James J. Jamison III (Bixby). Later, Dianne confesses to Scott that she is a gold digger, assuming that he is one, too. Scott agrees to help Dianne land Jamison, but ends up falling for her himself.

Scott persuades boat builder Sam Burton (Merrill) to allow him to rebuild Burton's "Rawhide", a high-performance boat that was damaged when raced at high speed, and drive it in the annual Orange Bowl Race, which Jamison has won the last three years. Scott sends for some "goop", an experimental coating one of his father's companies spent a lot of money trying (and failing) to perfect. Between his day job and working on the goop at night, Scott is run ragged, but he thinks he has fixed the goop's major flaw: losing its strength in water. With no time for testing before the race, he applies it to the boat's hull and hopes it will hold the "Rawhide" together. Duster learns where his son is and comes to see what he is doing. To Scott's surprise, his father is enormously proud of what he is doing.

Meanwhile, Jamison proposes to Dianne. Scott enters the suite before she can give Jamison an answer, but the playboy informs Scott they are getting married right after he wins the race. Dianne, however, decides to give up her scheme and return home.

In the race, Jamison takes the lead in his boat, the "Scarlet Lady", but Scott passes him at the finish line.  Scott then offers to give Dianne a lift. On the drive, he gives her an engagement ring he bought with the winnings from the race. Dianne insists that Scott take it back, but agrees to marry him. This prompts Scott to confess to Dianne who he really is. She does not believe him at first, but when he shows her his driver's license, she faints.

####Class Rank####
Two high school outsiders join forces in an attempt to overtake the local school board. Guided by their families, they enter the perilous world of politics and in the process, learn a thing or two about love.

####Clueless####
Cher Horowitz is a stylish, good-natured, and popular teenager living in a Beverly Hills mansion with her wealthy father Mel, a gruff litigator; her mother died during a liposuction procedure when Cher was a baby. She attends Bronson Alcott High School with her best friend Dionne Davenport, who is also wealthy and beautiful. Dionne has a long-term relationship with popular student Murray Duvall, though Cher believes Dionne should be dating more mature men. Josh, the socially conscious son of Mel's ex-wife of only a few weeks, visits Cher during a break from college. She playfully mocks his idealism, while he teases her for her vanity and superficial lifestyle.

After receiving a poor grade, Cher decides to orchestrate a romance between two teachers at her school, Ms. Geist and the hard-grading Mr. Hall, so that Hall will relax his standards and allow Cher to renegotiate the grade. After seeing their newfound happiness, Cher realizes that she enjoys doing good deeds.

When a "clueless" transfer student named Tai Frasier arrives at the school, Cher decides to make Tai her next project by giving her a makeover with the help of Dionne, providing Tai with confidence and a sense of style. Cher tries to extinguish the attraction between Tai and Travis Birkenstock, an amiable but clumsy slacker, and instead steer Tai towards handsome, popular student Elton. However, Elton has no interest in Tai and instead tries to make out with Cher in his car after a party. When she rebuffs him, he leaves her in a parking lot out of spite and she is mugged at gunpoint. Josh picks her up and the two begin to bond.

Fashion-conscious new student Christian attracts Cher's attention and becomes her target boyfriend. When she goes to a party with him, Josh becomes jealous and decides to follow her to the party. She invites Christian to her home and tries to seduce him, but he deflects her advances. Murray subsequently tells Cher and Dionne that Christian is gay. Despite the failure of her romantic overtures, Cher remains friends with him due to her admiration of his taste in art and fashion.

Cher's privileged life takes a negative turn when Tai's newfound popularity strains their relationship, and when she fails her driving test and cannot change the result. When Cher returns home in a depressed mood, Tai confesses that she has feelings for Josh and asks Cher for help in pursuing him. Cher says Tai is not right for Josh, leading to the two girls falling out. Feeling "totally clueless", Cher reflects on her priorities and her repeated failures to understand or appreciate the people in her life. After thinking about why she is bothered by Tai's romantic interest in Josh, Cher finally realizes that she is in love with him.

In response to her epiphany, Cher begins making awkward but sincere efforts to live a more purposeful life, including captaining the school's Pismo Beach disaster relief effort. She accepts an invitation by Travis to a skating tournament where she reconciles with Tai. Cher and Josh eventually follow through on their feelings for one another, culminating in a kiss. Ultimately, her friendships with Tai and Dionne are solidified. Sometime later, Mr. Hall and Miss Geist get married, and Cher attends the wedding with Josh, Dionne, Murray, and Tai and Travis (who have begun dating). Cher catches the wedding bouquet, and she and Josh embrace and kiss.

####Cluny Brown####
In 1938 London, Cluny Brown meets Adam Belinski while fixing a plumbing issue at Mr. Ames' and the two strike a chord. Later, at a party at Ames', the self-obsessed Betty Cream is pursued by two young men: Andrew Carmel and John Frewen. Cream stumbles upon a sleeping Belinski, whom the men recognize as the prominent anti-Nazi author Professor Adam Belinski. Andrew offers to allow Belinski to stay at his family's residence outside London while Andrew leaves for London.

Brown's uncle (also her guardian), disapproving of her unladylike behavior, sends her to work as the parlor maid for Andrew's family (headed by Sir Henry Carmel and Lady Carmel), much to her displeasure. Upon arrival, Brown is put under the contemptuous eyes of housekeeper Mrs. Maile and Syrette. At dinner, Brown is surprised to see Belinski. After dinner, Belinski is shown to a room with a nightingale under the window. Later, Belinski finds Brown and they realize that they are out of place at the Carmels' and make a pact to be platonic friends, even though Belinski is clearly interested in her.

One afternoon, Brown tells Belinski that she has been invited by chemist Jonathan Wilson to meet his mother. At Wilson's, Brown is amazed by Wilson's mannerisms and array of skills. Meanwhile, Belinski rings Wilson's doorbell and disappears. After the meeting, Belinski finds Wilson and acknowledges that he is a good man for Brown. Belinski tries to dissuade Brown from engaging with Wilson but she misinterprets his words and becomes more smitten with him.

Andrew returns after a row with Cream in London the previous day and is thus shocked to find that Cream is a guest at their residence. Belinski persuades Cream to let Brown, her personal maid, off the rest of the evening so she may attend Mrs. Wilson's birthday party, where Wilson may announce his engagement to Brown. When something goes awry with the plumbing during the Wilsons' party, Brown cannot resist the chance to show her skill at plumbing and bangs loudly and disruptively with a wrench on the offending pipe until it is fixed, startling the Wilsons and their guests. Mrs. Wilson, expressing her disapproval, promptly retires for the night, and the guests, sensing that things have gone wrong, leave just as suddenly and quickly; Mr. Wilson is exasperated and has second thoughts about his intentions with Cluny Brown.

That evening, Belinski enters Cream's bedroom, asking her to be nicer to Andrew, but Cream believes Belinski is trying to seduce her and screams. A furious Andrew tries to confront Belinski but Lady Carmel persuades him to sleep. In Cream's room, Cream tells Lady Carmel that she intends to marry Andrew and will tell him so in the morning. The next morning, Andrew decides to settle the score with a fight, but if there is one, it is not shown and the result is unclear.

Brown falls ill and Belinski suddenly announces his departure. He asks Maile to give her his parting present and wishes Brown well with Mr. Wilson. Just as Belinski leaves, Brown rushes out and catches up with him at the train station. She reveals that while Mr. Wilson was disappointed by her behavior that night, he will ask his mother to give her another chance. However, Belinski ushers her onto the train. He professes his love to her, promising that to support both of them, he will write a best-selling murder mystery. They embrace and kiss.

In the window of the "Fifth Avenue Bookstore", copies of Belinski's novels "The Nightingale Murder" and "The Nightingale Strikes Again!" are displayed.

####College Humor####
Barney Shirrel (Oakie) starts his first semester at Mid West University and works his way up in the fraternity with the help of Tex Roust (Joe Sawyer) and Mondrake (Arlen), an alcoholic college football star. Barney is passionate about engineering and the law, and between his varied studies, football, and the fraternity, he neglects his girl friend Amber (Kornman). In the next term, Mondrake gives his class sweater to Barney's sister Barbara (Carlisle). His drinking problem intensifies, however, when he learns that Barbara is falling in love with Professor Danvers (Crosby), the singing drama teacher. When Mondrake fails to show up at an important football game against a rival university, Danvers finds him in jail. With the school's reputation at stake, Danvers has him released and takes him to the football field in time to play in the game.

Afterwards, Danvers is called before the college president (Lumsden Hare). Although rivals for Barbara's affections, Danvers stands up for Mondrake. The college president expels Mondrake for drunkenness and forces Danvers to resign because of his involvement in the matter. Feeling guilty over causing Mondrake's expulsion, Barbara proposes marriage to him. Later, however, she admits that she is not in love with him, but with Danvers. Mondrake bows out of the relationship, and Barbara rushes to Danvers' side before he leaves.

During the next term, Barney has followed Mondrake's example and taken up drinking and smoking, which is not appealing to Amber. At the big football game, Barney is in sorry shape. Mid West is losing until he receives inspiration from Tex, who has returned to watch the game. After being knocked out, Barney recovers and wins the game for Mid West.  Some time later, Barney and Amber get married and they move to his father's dairy, where Barney works his way up from the lowest position. Barney and Amber enjoy listening to Danvers singing his song on the radio.

####College Rhythm####
Cocky college football star Francis Finnegan has his eye on the attractive Gloria van Dayham, as does his rival, Larry Stacey.

Francis gets a job in a department store owned by Stacey's father, where salesgirl June Cort develops an attraction to him. Finnegan proposes that Stacey's store sponsor a football team, which causes rival shop owner Whimple to do likewise. The team's head cheerleader, Mimi, falls for team mascot Joe, meanwhile, and everybody pairs off with the perfect partner after the big game.

####College Swing####
It's 1738, and Gracie Alden (Gracie Allen) of the powerful Alden family fails to graduate from the college founded by her grandfather for the ninth year in a row, so he leaves institution in his will to the first female of the family to graduate within 200 years.  At the deadline, in 1938, another Gracie Alden, the last girl of the line, is having trouble with her studies, so she hires fast-talking Bud Brady (Bob Hope) to help her.  Her efforts are opposed by woman-hating professor Hubert Dash (Edward Everett Horton) and his secretary George Jones (George Burns), who don't want to see their beloved college fall into the hands of an empty-headed nit-wit like Gracie.

When by hook and by crook Gracie manages to pass her exam and becomes the owner of the college, she does away with entrance exams, hires a bunch of incompetent but kooky teachers, and turns the place into a jumpin' jitterbugging joint complete with swing bands and remote radio broadcasts.

####Come Live with Me####
Johnny Jones (Lamarr), a native of Vienna, Austria who escaped after its annexation by Nazi Germany, is having an affair with the married Barton Kendrick (Ian Hunter), a publisher. One night an officer from the Department of Immigration finds her and tells her that she will be deported because her temporary passport expired three months ago. The investigator tells her that if she can be married within a week, she can stay.

Bill Smith (Stewart), a down-on-his-luck writer, runs into Jones in a diner during a rainstorm. She explains to him that she needs to marry an American citizen within a week and since he is broke, she could pay him and they would both get what they need. She pays him $17.80 a week in exchange for marrying her. Two months later, Smith is writing a book about the odd circumstances of his marriage and becomes curious about Jones, considering he only sees her once a week when she gives him a check.

Meanwhile, Jones is continuing her affair with Kendrick, but refuses to tell him how she has remained in the country. He tells Jones that he is leaving his wife and wants to marry Jones within two months. She tells Bill she wants a divorce right away, which he reluctantly agrees to. Smith finishes his book and sends it to Kendrick's publishing company, where Kendrick's wife Diane (Verree Teasdale) explains the book to Kendrick and he realizes that Smith is Jones' husband. Kendrick's chooses to publish the book and gives Smith $500 up front. After seeing Kendrick's reaction to the book, his wife realizes that he has been having an affair and that the book is real. Mrs. Kendrick decides to divorce him, but wants to make sure that Jones is actually in love with her husband first.

Meanwhile, Smith buys a new car and coerces Jones to go on a trip with him before he will sign the divorce papers. She ends up falling in love with Bill while on vacation, after meeting his family. Kendrick comes to Smith's grandmother's house in the middle of the night and Jones is forced to make the decision about who she wants, and she picks Bill.

####The Comeback Kid####
Bubba Newman, a minor league baseball player, decides to quit the sport and do something else with his life because he feels "down and out." He renews his outlook on life when he becomes a coach for a group of underprivileged kids and finds romance. Then, one of the youngsters gets hit by a car while racing to meet Bubba when he returns to the team. The kid's death ultimately brings the group and their coach even closer.

####Coming 2 America####
On the 30th anniversary of his wedding with Lisa McDowell at the end of the first film, Prince Akeem of Zamunda is summoned before his dying father King Jaffe Joffer. Jaffe and his shaman Baba reveal to a baffled Akeem that he had sired a bastard son during his first visit to Queens, New York many years ago, after his aide and long-time friend Semmi had enticed two women into spending the night with them while Akeem was still searching for his future queen, resulting in a tryst he did not remember. Realizing that Semmi is the one who asked one of women to have sex and drugged him in the first place, Akeem briefly strangles Semmi. As Zamundian tradition demands that only a male successor can inherit the throne, and Akeem has fathered only daughters, he is forced to travel back to Queens to retrieve his son. If not, Zamunda could face a hostile takeover by Zamunda's militaristic neighbor nation Nexdoria, whose dictator, General Izzi (the brother of Imani, Akeem's original arranged bride-to-be), has been pushing for Akeem's eldest daughter Meeka to marry his foppish son, Idi.

Following King Jaffe's funeral and Akeem's ascension to the throne, he and Semmi travel back to Queens to find his illegitimate son. During a light-hearted reunion with the barbershop gang they bonded with years earlier, head barber Mr. Clarence informs them that the son in question is Lavelle Junson, a ticket scalper who hustles outside of Madison Square Garden. After an awkward reunion with Lavelle's mother Mary, Akeem takes them back to Zamunda, much to his family's displeasure. When General Izzi learns of this, he drops by to introduce his daughter Bopoto to Lavelle as a last shot at laying claim to the throne of Zamunda, but in order to qualify as a royal prince, Lavelle first has to pass a series of traditional - and hazardous - tests.

Lavelle is at first highly reluctant to place himself in danger, but then bonds with Mirembe, a royal groomer, who tells him of Akeem's quest to find his queen and encourages him to follow his own path. Lavelle then invites his uncle Reem, Mary's streetwise brother, to Zamunda. He coaches him on how to blend his urban upbringing with his new royal status. Lavelle gradually develops an understanding with Akeem's family and, using his wits and some forced courage, he passes and is made Prince of Zamunda. However, at his accession party, Lavelle overhears a conversation between Akeem and Izzi which makes him believe that Akeem is just exploiting him, and he, Mirembe, Mary and Reem go back to New York. Upset at losing Mary, whom she has befriended, Lisa locks Akeem out of their bedroom. After a pep talk from his father-in-law Cleo, who reminds him of the late Queen Aoleon's progressive mind, Akeem flies back to the States, while Semmi is left to stall Izzi, who intends to return the next day to either see Bopoto marry Lavelle or declare war.

Returning to Queens, Akeem finds that Lavelle and Mirembe are about to get married. Confronted by Lavelle and reminded of his own life story, he gives them his blessing and releases Lavelle from his marriage to Bopoto. When Mirembe expresses reluctance in the couple cutting all of their ties to Zamunda, Akeem offers to fly Mary's family back for a proper wedding. In the meantime, Semmi and the princesses, all trained staff fighters, fight off and subdue General Izzi when he invades the palace, forcing him to try a more diplomatic approach. Upon his return home, Akeem changes the royal succession by allowing his daughter Meeka to ascend to the throne upon his death, while Lavelle is made an ambassador to the United States, and General Izzi has opened Nexdoria for a peaceful political and trading relationship with Zamunda. The film concludes with a grand party at the royal palace to celebrate Lavelle and Mirembe's marriage, including the barbers from Queens as special guests and a performance of the song "We Are Family" from Sexual Chocolate.

####Coming Soon####
Three wealthy, savvy high school seniors have everything: brains, beauty, money, popularity, powerful parents, and boyfriends. Stream Hodsell is a smart, down-to-earth strawberry blonde. Sassy Jenny Simon masks her intelligence behind a guise of fishnet stockings. Nell Kellner is a soulful. The girls attend the prestigious and expensive Halton School in Manhattan. Among their boyfriends are Chad and garage band musician Henry Lipschitz.

The trio, however, still feel unfulfilled. After losing her virginity without obtaining sexual satisfaction, Stream is confused as well as unfulfilled and studies the problem with self-help books, women's magazines and the comically misinformed advice of her peers. Judy Hodsell is Stream's distracted ex-hippie mom, Dick Hodsell is her yuppie father with a new young girlfriend, Mimi, and Mr. Jennings is a feel-good career counselor.

####Coming to America####
In the wealthy African nation of Zamunda, crown prince Akeem Joffer grows weary of his pampered lifestyle on his 21st birthday and wishes to do more for himself. When his parents, King Jaffe and Queen Aoleon, present him with an arranged bride-to-be, Akeem takes action. Seeking an independent woman who loves him for himself and not his social status, Akeem and his best friend/personal aide, Semmi, travel to the New York City borough of Queens and rent a squalid tenement in the neighborhood of Long Island City under the guise of poor foreign students.

Beginning their search for Akeem's bride, they end up being invited by some locals to a rally raising money for the neighborhood. During the rally, Akeem encounters Lisa McDowell, who possesses all the qualities he is looking for in a woman. So, upon his insistence, he and Semmi get entry-level jobs working at the local fast-food restaurant called McDowell's, a McDonald's knockoff owned by widower Cleo McDowell, Lisa's father.

Akeem's attempts to win Lisa's love are complicated by Lisa's lazy and obnoxious boyfriend, Darryl Jenks, whose father owns Soul Glo (a Jheri curl–like hairstyling aid). After Darryl announces their engagement—without Lisa's consent—to their families, she starts dating Akeem, who claims that he comes from a family of poor goat herders.

Meanwhile, although Akeem thrives on hard work and learning how commoners live, Semmi is not comfortable with living in such meager conditions. After a dinner date with Lisa is thwarted when Semmi furnishes their apartment with a hot tub and other luxuries, Akeem confiscates his money and donates it to two homeless men. Semmi wires a telegraph to King Jaffe for more money, prompting the Joffers to travel to Queens to find him.

Cleo initially disapproves of Akeem, as he believes he is poor and therefore not good enough for his daughter. He becomes ecstatic when he discovers that Akeem is actually an extremely wealthy prince, after meeting his parents. When Akeem discovers that his parents have arrived in New York, he and Lisa go to the McDowell residence to lie low where Cleo welcomes them. After Cleo's bond with Akeem is ruined by the unexpected arrival of the Zamundan entourage, Lisa later becomes angry and confused that Akeem lied to her about his identity. Akeem explains that he wanted her to love him for who, not what, he is, even offering to renounce his throne, but Lisa, still hurt and angry, refuses to marry him. Despondent, Akeem resigns himself to the arranged marriage, but as they leave, Jaffe is reprimanded by Aoleon for clinging to outdated traditions instead of thinking of their son's happiness.

At the wedding procession, a still-heartbroken Akeem becomes surprised when his veiled bride is Lisa herself. Following the ceremony, they ride happily in a carriage to the cheers of Zamundans. Witnessing such splendor, Lisa is both surprised and touched by the fact that Akeem would have given it up just for her. Akeem offers again to abdicate if she does not want this life, but Lisa playfully declines.

####Comrade X####
In the Soviet Union, American reporter McKinley "Mac" Thompson (Clark Gable) secretly writes unflattering stories about the Soviet Union, attributed to "Comrade X", for his newspaper. His identity is discovered by his valet, Vanya (Felix Bressart), who blackmails Mac into promising to get his daughter, a streetcar conductor named Theodore (Hedy Lamarr), out of the country. Theodore agrees to a sham marriage so she can spread the message of the benefits of Communism to the rest of the world. However, Commissar Vasiliev (Oscar Homolka) is determined to unmask and arrest Comrade X. Eventually Theodore sees the "wicked hypocrisy of Communism" and falls in love with Thompson.

####Confessions of a Sexist Pig####
A daytime soap opera star has to deal with his sexist ideas when he falls for his new co-star, a woman who seemingly follows his manly ideas about dating.

####Confessions of a Shopaholic####
Rebecca "Becky" Bloomwood is a shopping addict who lives in New York City with her best friend Suze. She works as a journalist for a gardening magazine but dreams of joining the fashion magazine "Alette". On the way to an interview with "Alette", she tries to purchase a green scarf, but her credit card is declined. Rebecca goes to a hot dog stand and offers to buy all the hot dogs with a check if the seller gives her back change in cash, claiming that the scarf is meant to be a gift for her sick aunt. The vendor refuses but another customer gives her the $20 she needs for the scarf.

When Rebecca arrives at the interview, she's told that the position has been filled internally. However, the receptionist tells her there is an open position with the magazine "Successful Saving", explaining that getting a job at "Successful Saving" could eventually lead to a position at "Alette" magazine. Rebecca interviews with Luke Brandon, the editor of "Successful Saving" and the man who had given her the $20. She hides her scarf outside his office, but Luke's assistant comes into the office and gives it back to her. Knowing she has been caught, Rebecca leaves.

That evening, she and Suze get drunk and write letters to "Alette" and "Successful Saving", respectively, but in her intoxicated state she mails each to the wrong magazine. Luke likes the letter she meant to send to "Alette" and hires her. Rather than completing a work assignment for a new column, Rebecca goes to a clothing sale. While inspecting a cashmere coat that she had just purchased, she realizes it is not 100% cashmere and she has been duped. This gives her an idea for the column, which she writes and submits to Luke. As Rebecca is hesitant to use her real name, Luke publishes it under the moniker "The Girl in the Green Scarf."

"The Girl in The Green Scarf" becomes a huge hit among business groups, and even Rebecca's own parents advise her to read her articles. The articles are referenced in business groups in Asia, causing the "Successful Saving" magazine to go international. This brings much praise to Rebecca, from her peers in the workplace, and her friend Suze. "The Girl In The Green Scarf" becomes so popular that she is asked to participate in a TV interview. Rebecca meets with the editor of "Alette" to purchase a dress for the interview.

Rebecca later returns home to renewed confrontations with her debt collector, Derek Smeath. Suze makes her attend Shopaholics Anonymous. After purchasing dresses for her interview and Suze’s wedding, she meets a seemingly friendly woman, Miss Korch, only to learn that she is the new Shopaholics Anonymous group leader. Miss Korch forces Rebecca to donate all the clothes she just bought, not believing her when Rebecca says one of the dresses is for her friend’s wedding. After the meeting, Rebecca can't afford to buy back both dresses and buys back the interview dress, leaving the bridesmaid's dress behind. During the interview, Derek Smeath is in the audience and confronts Rebecca. "Successful Saving" terminates Rebecca's column after the public confrontation for bringing discredit on the magazine and believing she is a risk for not paying her debts.

Suze is furious and hurt when she finds out that Rebecca lost the bridesmaid dress. Rebecca's father, Graham, is more sympathetic, remarking that the United States has not fallen despite its gigantic national debt, and offers to sell his recreational vehicle to help her. Rebecca declines his offer, saying that he earned the camper through years of hard work and saving, and that she will need to tackle her debts on her own. "Alette" offers Rebecca a position at the magazine, but she declines after realizing she’d be expected to lie to the readers. Meanwhile, Luke starts a new company, Brandon Communications.

In order to earn the money to repay her debts, the members of Shopaholic Anonymous help Rebecca stage a clothes sale, which generates a lot of revenue, but not enough to retire her debts. She finally sells her green scarf when a woman bids on it for $300, making it possible for her to give all the cash to the debt collector, which she pays in pennies—to give it to him in the "most inconvenient way possible".

Rebecca makes it to the wedding after reclaiming her bridesmaid dress and Suze forgives her. After the wedding, Rebecca walks past an Yves Saint Laurent store window. She is briefly tempted to buy a new purse and dress, but eventually walks away. Rebecca then runs into Luke who returns the green scarf to her, revealing that the woman who bought it was his agent. Rebecca and Luke kiss and Rebecca begins working with Luke at his new company.

####Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber####
Katya Livingston is an ad exec living in San Francisco. Her accountant goes to prison and advises her to keep a journal of all of her expenses as she is sure to be audited. Katya is vain and selfish, trying to keep up with society by wearing designer knock offs and trying to get into all of the hottest clubs. She is best friends with Eliza: a well meaning do-gooder, Ferguson: a gay male escort with self-esteem issues and a long list of ex-boyfriends, and Frangiapani: a woman that has been married several times.

Katya finds out about the Royal Ball, a benefit for Youth Aid International and the biggest social event of the season. It will be thrown by socialite sisters Dove and Fawn Greenstein. She finds out that she has not been invited because of an indiscretion she mistakenly had with Dove Greenstein's husband on their wedding day and then later revealed Dove's real age to a local tabloid. She is desperate to go, especially when she finds out all of her friends are going.

####Continental Divide####
Chicago newspaper reporter Ernie Souchak (Belushi) is investigating a corrupt alderman. While doing an exposé on some shady land dealings, he is assaulted by two crooked police officers sent by the alderman and ends up in the hospital.

Souchak's editor decides to send him out of town for his own safety. A city boy, Souchak reluctantly travels to the Rockies to interview the reclusive Dr. Nell Porter (Brown), who has been conducting research on the American bald eagles for several years.

The two are at odds at first. After finding out he is a reporter, she is reluctant to let him stay, but realizes he is not able to survive in the mountains without his guide, who is not scheduled to return for two weeks. He is skeptical about her work, but comes to admire Porter for her strong character and dedication. Eventually, they fall in love.

At first, she lets him stay as long as he doesn't write his story. As they learn to respect each other, she agrees to let him write about her. During his adventures, he sprains his back in an accident, is mauled by a cougar, and meets an All-American football player who has left civilization and become a mountain man.

Souchak returns to Chicago with her very much on his mind. When he finds out that one of his sources has been "accidentally" killed, he once again doggedly pursues the investigation until the alderman is forced to flee the country.

The same day, Souchak finds out that Porter is coming to Chicago to present a museum lecture on her work. With some uncertainty, he decides to attend, and they quickly rekindle their relationship. Happy as they are together, they cannot reconcile the different paths each has taken in life, and so they reluctantly decide to part again.

Souchak, seeing her off on the train, ends up traveling with her all the way back to Wyoming. After getting off at her stop, they decide that they cannot live without each other and decide to marry. Souchak catches the next train back to Chicago, but the newlyweds promise to meet again very soon.

####Corporal Kate####
In World War I, Brooklyn manicurists Kate Jones (Vera Reynolds) and Becky Finkelstein (Julia Faye), work up a song-and-dance act that they intend to take overseas to entertain the troops. Through the influence of a friend, the girls are assigned to the French front.

Both girls fall in love with Jackson Clark (Kenneth Thompson), a rich playboy, who is in the American Expeditionary Forces, along with Williams (Harry Allen), his valet. Evelyn (Majel Coleman), a friend of Jackson's, also goes to France as a Red Cross nurse

Jackson falls for Kate and is jealous of Evelyn, but, unknown to any of them, Evelyn loves an American aviator. When the Germans advance, Becky is killed, dying in Jackson's arms.

Kate loses her arm in a selfless and heroic action, and Jackson, still greatly in love with her, proposes that they spend the rest of their lives together.

####The Couple Takes a Wife####
A married couple who both work get in a woman, Jennifer, to work as a housekeeper.

####The Courtship of Andy Hardy####
When Carvel teenager and new tow truck-owner Andy Hardy is stopped by a policeman for driving without a license plate, a radio report implicates him in stealing the car he is towing.

At home, Andy finds it hard to be cheerful, even though his mother Emily, his father, Judge James K. Hardy, and his aunt Milly are celebrating his sister Marian's return from New York. Marian thinks that Carvel is too unsophisticated for her and is annoyed by her family's worries that she is dating Jeff Willis, a local young man who is considered a "wolf."

As the judge sits in his study, Andy comes in and tells him about the misunderstanding that led to the auto theft problem. The judge promises to sort things out if Andy will help him by befriending Melodie Nesbit, a teenager at the center of a custody battle between her mother Olivia and her father Roderick. Although Melodie is not as pretty or outgoing as Andy's other girl friends, he agrees to help by asking her to a dance.

Jeff arrives, announcing his presence on a loudspeaker set up in his car, and broadcasts his invitation to Marian to come with him to the Red Door Inn on the 19th. Andy tells her about the notorious inn and warns her not to get involved in a scandal.

On the night of the dance, Melodie is happy to be there, even though she knows that Andy has only asked her out because of his father. Andy has to bribe his friends to dance with her, but one boy, Harry Land, refuses the money because he has a secret crush on Melodie. After the dance, Melodie, who has a crush on Andy, asks his advice on how to appeal to boys.

The same night, Emily secretly orders a forty dollar cut-away coat for her husband out of her household account.

A few days later, Andy's friend Susie comes to distribute posters for a "spinster skip" dance, to which the girls are to invite the boys. Andy offers to drive Susie around town and is seen by Melodie, who immediately goes to the judge and asks him to say that he accepted her invitation for Andy to come to the dance.

At the same time, the postman arrives with Emily's COD coat and informs her that the amount due is $61.40. Emily is upset because the ad said nothing about extra charges and refuses to accept the package.

On the night of Marian's date with Jeff, she becomes annoyed when her family makes fun of her choice of a dress, which is really a fancy nightgown, and promises that she "will show them."

That night, a man from a collection agency comes to the house and demands that Emily pay the full amount of the coat or be taken to court and have her husband's salary attached.

Later, at the dance, Melodie impresses everyone with her new clothes and hairstyle, and now the boys are willing to pay Andy. Despite Melodie's charm, Andy later admits to her that he does not return her affection. When she quietly goes into her house, she overhears her parents having a vicious argument. Back at home, Andy feels terrible that he made Melodie cry, but is happy to hear that Polly Benedict, his old girlfriend, is coming home. Melodie then comes to the judge and says that she never wants to see either of her parents again and the judge lets her spend the night with his family.

Some time later, Andy, who volunteered to search for the long-overdue Marian, brings her home, towing Jeff's car, in which a drunken Jeff had a minor crash. After they bring the passed-out Jeff into the house, the judge explains to Andy how low man falls when he allows himself to reach this state. The next day, a sober Jeff comes to the door to apologize and say that he did hear the judge's words the previous night and has learned his lesson.

That afternoon, the judge meets with Melodie's parents, and after lecturing them about their behavior, asks Melodie in and convinces Olivia and Roderick to retract the horrible things they have said about each other and try to get along.

After the family leaves, a tearful Emily comes to her husband, remorseful over what has happened about the cut-away coat. The judge alleviates her fears by letting her know that he inadvertently found out about the agency and discovered that the entire mail-order business was run by confidence men who tricked unsuspecting customers into paying more than the advertised price for the suit.

That afternoon, Andy takes Harry to see Melodie, who has gotten over her crush on Andy and is more than willing to date the smitten Harry. She also convinces Andy to ask Polly to the football dance. As Andy leaves Melodie's house, Polly drives by with her cousin, who coincidentally is the man who mistakenly thought that Andy stole his car. With everything now fine, Andy drives home and tells his father, "women are habit forming."

####The Courtship of Eddie's Father####
Young Eddie Corbett (Ronny Howard) tries his best to be a matchmaker for his widowed father, Tom (Glenn Ford), a radio station executive. At first, sexy Dollye Daly (Stella Stevens) seems promising, but she ends up falling in love with and marrying Norman Jones (Jerry Van Dyke), Tom's friend and colleague.

Tom becomes attracted to a sophisticated socialite, Rita Behrens (Dina Merrill). They begin considering marriage, but Eddie takes an immediate dislike to Rita and she does not know how to deal with him, nor does she particularly wish to learn, and Tom eventually chooses his son over her.

Through all this, the Corbetts are supported by their new housekeeper, Mrs. Livingston (Roberta Sherwood), and by their divorced next-door neighbor, Elizabeth Marten (Shirley Jones). It takes a crisis for Tom to realize what has been under his nose all along.

####Cover Girl####
Rusty is a very lovely and beautiful chorus girl at a Brooklyn nightclub run by her boyfriend Danny McGuire. Fellow showgirl Maurine Martin enters a contest to be on the cover of "Vanity" magazine, so Rusty tries out as well. When Maurine is given a lukewarm evaluation by Cornelia Jackson, she sabotages Rusty's chances, giving her terrible advice on how to act toward Cornelia. Cornelia's boss, magazine editor John Coudair, decides to check out Maurine at Danny's nightclub, but his eye is immediately drawn to Rusty. It turns out that 40 years earlier, he had become instantly smitten with showgirl Maribelle Hicks, whom Rusty looks exactly like; he later discovers that Maribelle is Rusty's recently deceased grandmother.

Danny is worried that, with her newfound fame, Rusty will leave him. She is quite willing to stay if only Danny would ask her. John brings along impresario Noel Wheaton to see Rusty perform; Noel is impressed by both her marvelous beauty and talent. Backstage, he offers her a job. Danny does not want to stand in her way, so he picks an argument to send her packing. Rusty becomes a star on Broadway after appearing in a musical produced by Wheaton, and decides to marry him. At the last second, however, she leaves the wedding and reunites with Danny.

####The Cowboy and the Lady####
Mary Smith (Merle Oberon), daughter of presidential hopeful Horace Smith (Henry Kolker), has lived a cloistered life free of any scandal. Although she is devoted to her father and supports his political aspirations, she longs for a life of her own. Believing she needs some excitement in her life, Mary's free-spirited Uncle Hannibal (Harry Davenport) takes her dancing at a nightclub, which the police raid for gambling. When Horace learns that press reporters have discovered Mary's name on the police report, he sends his daughter off to the family's Palm Beach, Florida mansion.

For Mary, Palm Beach during the off season is a place of loneliness and boredom. She asks her two housemaids (Patsy Kelly and Mabel Todd) if she can go along with them on a blind date with some cowboys from a visiting rodeo. The two maids reluctantly agree. Feeling sorry for the inexperienced Mary, they coach her on their three-step "system" for getting a man interested: flatter him, get him talking about himself, and play on his sympathy with a hard-luck story.

After the rodeo, the three women meet up with their dates at the Rodeo Cafeteria and pair off. Mary is immediately attracted to the tall, lanky, and unpretentious cowboy Stretch Willoughby (Gary Cooper) and arranges to be with him. After dinner, they continue their evening back at Mary's beachfront estate. Aware that the plain-spoken Stretch is suspicious of high society rich folk, Mary pretends to be a lady's maid whose "boss" is out of town. Mary attempts to get the shy cowboy interested by following the first two steps of the "system" but fails to attract his interest. Determined, she proceeds to the third step, inventing a hard-luck story about her drunken father and four younger sisters whom she alone must support. When she adds a tear or two to embellish her story, Stretch is won over, and the evening ends with the two kissing in the moonlight.

The next morning, an enamoured Stretch appears at the mansion prepared to ask for Mary's hand in marriage. Unprepared for this turn of events, Mary casually dismisses his awkward proposal. Angered at the rejection, Stretch tosses Mary into the swimming pool and storms off. Completely fascinated by this man who is unlike any other she's met, Mary follows Stretch when he boards a ship for Galveston. Determined to apologize, Mary finally succeeds in getting the stubborn cowboy to listen to her, but she is unable to reveal her true identity. The days on board the ship bring the two closer together, and on the last night of the voyage, they are married by the ship's captain.

When the newly married couple arrives at Galveston, they set up temporary home in a tent at a rodeo camp. Mary does her best to adapt to the dusty and primitive conditions, but she is having a difficult time. Stretch senses Mary's unease, but believes it stems from her worrying over her "family"—the fictitious drunken father and four younger sisters she's supporting. He suggests she return to Palm Beach alone to settle her family obligations. Although she is ashamed of her continued deception, Mary fears Stretch will reject her if he learns the truth about her wealthy family. Stretch believes he's married a "work horse" who works hard to support her family, not a "show horse" like her fictitious boss. Confused and miserable, Mary agrees to go back home for a few days and later meet up with Stretch at his ranch in Montana.

Back at her Palm Beach mansion, Mary learns that her father is on his way with all his committee members, plus an important congressman who holds the presidential nomination in his power. Her sympathetic Uncle Hannibal arrives early, and Mary tearfully confides her secret marriage to him. When Mary's father arrives, he assumes his daughter will serve as dutiful hostess and support his political plans. Feeling trapped again, Mary finally confesses to her father that she is married to a cowboy and plans to join him in Montana immediately. When she sees her father's disappointment, however, she agrees to stay until her father secures the presidential nomination.

At his Montana ranch, Stretch is busy preparing for Mary's arrival and building a new house for his bride—but Mary never arrives. Stretch heads back to the Palm Beach mansion and insists on talking to Mary's "employers." He bursts into the dining room, only to see his wife at the head of a dinner party table, surrounded by her father and his distinguished guests, who proceed to have a few laughs at the cowboy's expense. When asked for his opinion about Mary's father's running for president, Stretch condemns the whole group for their behavior and leaves in anger. Seeing his daughter's distress, Horace realizes that he has not been a good father, and comforts Mary as they listen to the whistle of the train that is taking her husband out of her life.

Back in Montana, a subdued Stretch arrives home only to find his father-in-law sitting on his front porch, wanting to chat about farming. Horace tells Stretch that he has quit the presidential race because he now knows that Mary's happiness is more important, acknowledging that Mary made sacrifices all her life, thinking only of her father, never herself. Upon entering the ranchhouse, the bewildered Stretch finds a party underway, Uncle Hannibal raiding the kitchen, and Mary herself baking a cake with Ma Hawkins. Soon after, the cowboy and the lady are seen kissing in Ma Hawkins' kitchen.

####Crazy Rich Asians####
Rachel Chu, a professor of economics and game theory at New York University and New York native, and her boyfriend Nick Young travel to Singapore for the wedding of Nick’s best friend Colin Khoo. On the airplane, Rachel asks her boyfriend why they are staying at a hotel and not with his family. Nick lies and says he wants to keep her to himself a little while longer. In fact, his mother had made it clear his mysterious new girlfriend was unwelcome in her home.

When the two arrive at Changi Airport, Nick’s best friend Colin and his fiancée Araminta Lee are waiting for them. The four then venture to Newton Food Centre for dinner, where Rachel is in awe of the vibrant food culture of Singapore. The following day, Rachel visits her college roommate Goh Peik Lin and her wealthy family, who are shocked when Rachel tells them whom she is dating. Peik Lin reveals that Nick's family are 'old money' and extremely wealthy (the eponymous "crazy rich Asians") and thus akin to royalty in Singapore.

Later that evening, Rachel and Peik Lin arrive at the dinner party at the sprawling Young family estate. Nick introduces Rachel to his mother Eleanor, while his cousin Astrid Leong-Teo discovers that her husband Michael, who comes from a more humble background than the Youngs, has been having an affair. Rachel immediately senses that Eleanor dislikes her. Nick then introduces Rachel to his grandmother, Shang Su Yi, the Young family matriarch. Su Yi takes an immediate liking to Rachel, and offers to teach her how to make jiaozi dumplings.

At the bachelorette party for Araminta, the bride, Rachel meets Amanda Ling, who reveals she is Nick's former girlfriend and confirms that Rachel may face rejection by the Youngs due to her modest background. Rachel finds her hotel room vandalized by the other women, who deem her a gold-digger, but is comforted by Astrid. In parallel, Nick attends Colin's bachelor party and reveals to Colin his plan to propose to Rachel. Colin expresses his concern about the potential conflicts this could cause: in addition to their class difference, Nick is expected to stay in Singapore and run his family's corporation, whereas Rachel loves her job in New York.

After the parties, Nick apologizes to Rachel for not telling her who he really was. Eleanor recounts the sacrifices she made to become a part of the Young family and makes jabs at Rachel for her American background, specifically highlighting the American unwillingness to place family over self, even after Rachel compliments Eleanor's emerald engagement ring. Su Yi arrives and then criticizes Eleanor’s dumplings, making everyone present visibly uncomfortable. Later, Eleanor privately recounts how Nick's father had to obtain her ring because Su Yi disapproved of Eleanor and refused to give him the ring, and she tells Rachel that she will never be enough for Nick or his family. Peik Lin convinces Rachel to stand up to Eleanor and earn her respect.

On the day of the wedding, Peik Lin, with the help of Oliver T’sien (Nick’s second cousin) gives Rachel a glamorous and elegant makeover that visibly stuns everyone in attendance, especially Nick. Meanwhile, en route to the wedding, Astrid confronts Michael about his affair only to learn that he blames his unhappiness and his infidelity on the financial disparity between them. During the wedding reception, Eleanor and Su Yi privately confront Rachel and Nick. Using the findings of a private investigator, Eleanor reveals that Rachel's father is alive, and Rachel was conceived through an extramarital affair, after which her mother, Kerry, left her husband and fled to the United States. They demand that Nick stop seeing Rachel for fear of being linked to such a scandal. This shocks Rachel, as her mother had told her that her father was dead. Heartbroken, she flees to Peik Lin's home, remaining in a depressed stupor for days.

Kerry later arrives, explaining that her husband was abusive and that the comfort of an old classmate turned into love, and a surprise pregnancy. She fled with baby Rachel in fear that her husband would kill them. Kerry then reveals that Nick was the one who called her to Singapore, and urges Rachel to talk to him before they go home. When they meet, Nick sincerely apologizes for all that he and his family have put her through. He then proposes to Rachel, promising that he is willing to abandon his family, position, and wealth to be with her.

Rachel arranges to meet Eleanor at a mahjong parlor. As they play, she reveals that she declined Nick's proposal. She points out that Eleanor has placed the three of them in an unwinnable position: Nick can forsake Rachel and remain dutiful but resentful of  his family, or he can forsake his family for love. She then clarifies that she declined his proposal so that he wouldn't have to make a lose-lose decision. Making use of her expertise in game theory, she hands Eleanor the mahjong tile that lets the older woman win, before revealing that she could have kept the tile for herself and claimed victory.  Having thus demonstrated her willingness to place family over self, she leaves with Kerry. Meanwhile, Astrid takes her son Cassian and moves out.

Eleanor meets with Nick, emotionally affected by her exchange with Rachel. Meanwhile, at Changi Airport, Rachel and Kerry are boarding a flight back to New York. They are suddenly interrupted by Nick, who proposes again—this time with Eleanor's ring, symbolizing her blessing. In tears, Rachel accepts and they stay in Singapore for an engagement party, where Eleanor nods to Rachel in acknowledgment, Rachel having finally earned her respect. In a mid-credits scene, Astrid and her ex-boyfriend Charlie Wu spot each other at the party; she discreetly smiles.

####Crocodile Dundee####
Sue Charlton is a feature writer for her father's newspaper "Newsday", and is dating the editor Richard Mason. She travels to Walkabout Creek, a small township in the Northern Territory of Australia, to meet Michael J. "Crocodile" Dundee, a bushman reported to have lost half a leg to a saltwater crocodile before crawling hundreds of miles to safety. On arrival in Walkabout Creek, she cannot locate Dundee, but she is entertained at the local pub by Dundee's business partner Walter "Wally" Reilly. When Dundee arrives that night, Sue finds his leg is not missing, but he has a large scar which he refers to as a "love bite". While Sue dances with Dundee, a group of city kangaroo shooters make fun of Dundee's status as a crocodile hunter, causing him to knock the leader out with one punch.

At first, Sue finds Dundee less "legendary" than she had been led to believe, unimpressed by his pleasant-mannered but uncouth behaviour and clumsy advances towards her. She is later amazed, when in the outback, she witnesses "Mick" (as Dundee is called) subduing a water buffalo, taking part in an Aboriginal (Pitjantjatjara) tribal dance ceremony, killing a snake with his bare hands, and scaring away the kangaroo shooters from the pub from their cruel sport by tricking them into thinking one of the kangaroos is shooting back.

The next morning, offended by Mick's assertion that as a "sheila" she is incapable of surviving the Outback alone, Sue goes out alone to prove him wrong but takes his rifle with her at his request. Mick follows her to make sure she is okay, but when she stops at a billabong to collect water, she is attacked by a large crocodile and is rescued by Mick. Overcome with gratitude, Sue finds herself becoming attracted to him.

Sue invites Mick to return with her to New York City on the pretext of continuing the feature story. At first Wally scoffs at her suggestion, but he changes his mind when she tells him the newspaper would cover all expenses. Once in New York, Mick is perplexed by local behaviour and customs but overcomes problematic situations including two encounters with a pimp and two attempted robberies. After this Sue realises her true feelings for him, and they kiss.

At a society dinner at her father's home in honour of Sue's safe return and of Mick's visit, Richard proposes marriage to Sue, and in a haze of confused emotions, she initially accepts in spite of Richard having recently revealed his self-centered and insensitive "true colours" during a period of intoxication.

Mick, disheartened at Sue's engagement, decides to go "walkabout" around the United States, but Sue has a change of heart and, deciding not to marry Richard, follows Mick to a subway station. There, she cannot reach him through the crowd on the platform, but has members of the crowd relay her message to him, whereupon he climbs up to the rafters and walks to Sue on the heads and raised hands of the onlookers and kisses her, to the delight of the crowd, where they receive a round of applause.

####Cross My Heart####
Bruce Gaynor (Paul Reiser) advises David Morgan (Short) while Nancy (Joanna Kerns) advises Kathy (O'Toole) on how to go about their third and most intimate date.

Although they have dated twice, they have not revealed their biggest secrets. This third date challenges their relationship as the truths surface.  Both parties find that honesty really is the best policy.

####Cross-Country Romance####
High-profile heiress Diane North (Wendy Barrie) stows away in the trailer of a bacteriologist Dr. Lawrence "Larry" Smith (Gene Raymond) to escape from her own wedding. Larry has to drive cross country to San Francisco to catch a ship to China, where he will work with an eminent expert on a cure for a serious disease. When he discovers his stowaway, Diane tells him she is poverty-stricken Maggie "Jonesy" Jones, making her way to a slightly less poor uncle. Larry tries to get rid of his passenger at every opportunity, but she falls in love and uses every wile to stay with him.

Meanwhile, her wealthy, ditsy mother (Hedda Hopper) offers a reward for her safe return, fearing she has been kidnapped, but her fiance Walter Corbett remains remarkably blase about the whole thing.

At a lunch counter, two grifters recognize Diane, and sneak aboard the trailer, but not before conning Orestes (Billy Gilbert), the diner's cook, into giving them two $10 bills for $5. Orestes finally figures out he has been conned and telephones for the police. All four are taken to the Omaha police station. Police Captain G. G. Burke finally sorts things out and lets Larry and Diane go.

They get married. Then, at one stop, Diane secretly calls her mother and asks her to do something to stop Larry from going to China (which he insists on doing alone). Larry hears on the radio that the famous doctor has found a cure, so he no longer has a reason to go.

He also discovers Diane's true identity, and promptly dumps her. On his way back through Omaha, he is arrested. Captain Burke is sure he kidnapped and possibly murdered Diane, and is frustrated when the alleged victim shows up looking for her husband.

Diane confesses to Larry that the news story was faked by her mother. He leaves once more for San Francisco, by air as time is running short. On board the ship, Larry is delighted to be invited to dine with the captain, until he discovers that the guest of honor is one of the owners of the shipping line: Diane. He storms out, but she persuades him to take her back.

####Crossing Delancey####
Isabelle Grossman works for a New York bookstore which supports authors through public readings. When Dutch-American author Anton Maes comes to the bookstore to give a reading, he shows an interest in Isabelle, who is enamored with the intellectual world that is very different from her Orthodox Jewish upbringing.

Isabelle pays frequent visits to her Yiddish-speaking "Bubbe" (grandmother), Ida, who lives on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Anxious for her granddaughter to settle down, Ida turns to the local marriage broker. Although shocked and annoyed, Isabelle allows the matchmaker to introduce her in Bubbe’s kitchen to Sam Posner, who owns the nearby pickle shop.

At first Isabelle is not interested in Sam, believing that he is too working-class for her. Instead, she sets her sights on Anton and the New York intelligentsia. But she also feels guilty for how rude she was to Sam, so she tries to make it up to him by setting him up with her girlfriend Marilyn. In the process, she learns that he did not hire a matchmaker out of desperation and in fact has admired Isabelle from afar for several years. She is deeply touched and begins to like him, but it seems Sam has given up on her and starts dating Marilyn.

One day at a store book reading, Sam shows up, as does Anton. Isabelle leaves with Sam, and later agrees to meet him the next day at her Bubbe’s apartment.

After work the next day, however, she is sidelined by Anton and, believing that he is romantically interested in her, goes to his apartment. She discovers instead that Anton wants the convenience of an assistant, not a true partner. Finally seeing through him, the disgusted Isabelle races to her grandmother's apartment late, finding it empty with Ida sleeping on the couch. Heartbroken, she believes she has ruined her chances with the honest and caring Sam. As she cries, Sam enters from the balcony. The two finally are united and Ida, who feigned senility to keep Sam from leaving, is gleeful that her plan has succeeded.

####Crown for Christmas####
Alison "Allie" Evans (Danica McKellar) is an American hotel maid who was fired for not getting an important guest's room ready in time. Overhearing this, a hotel patron's servant, Fergus (Pavel Douglas), hires her to be a governess for his employer's daughter in the country of Winshire. When Allie accepts and arrives in the country, she finds that Fergus' employer is widower King Maximillian (Rupert Penry-Jones) and that his daughter is Princess Theodora (Ellie Botterill) who has become mischievous since her mother's death. But, she meets her match in Allie, as Allie single-handedly raised her younger brother and sister following their parents' deaths.

When not busy looking after the princess, Allie befriends the other staff members. All while King Maximillian is being pressured by Chancellor Riggs (Colin McFarlane) to become engaged to Lady Celia (Alexandra Evans). Theodora has some objections to this as she thinks Allie would be a better match. When the party arrives, Allie is invited, much to the jealousy and irritation of Lady Celia and to hers and Max’s dismay, the wedding ring has gone missing.

####Cruise####
Set during the summer of 1987, "Cruise" focuses on Gio Fortunato, a blue-collar Italian-American who is preoccupied with car racing and chasing women. Life starts to change for Fortunato when he meets Jessica Weinberg, a "nice Jewish girl" from Long Island who ventures into Gio's neighborhood looking for some action.

####Cry-Baby####
In 1954 Baltimore, Wade "Cry-Baby" Walker leads a gang of "drapes", which includes his sister Pepper, a teenage mother; facially-disfigured Mona "Hatchet Face" Malnorowski; Wanda Woodward, whose post-World War II normal parents constantly embarrass her; and Milton Hackett, Hatchet Face's devoted boyfriend. Walker's ability to shed a single tear excites all the girls. One day after school, Allison Vernon-Williams, a beautiful girl tired of being a "square", approaches him, and the two fall in love.  at the charm school run by Allison's grandmother, and introduces himself to her, who doubts his motives. Cry-Baby invites Allison to a party at Turkey Point, a local hangout spot for the drapes.

Despite her grandmother's skepticism, Allison accompanies Cry-Baby to Turkey Point, where she is given a "drape" makeover by Hatchet Face, Pepper and Wanda, and sings a duet onstage with Cry-Baby

When Lenora Frigid, a girl with an unrequited crush on Cry-Baby, claims to be pregnant with his child, Allison feels betrayed and returns to Baldwin and the squares, though her grandmother warns her against rushing into a decision.  Meanwhile, in the penitentiary, Cry-Baby gets a teardrop tattoo from fellow drape Dupree (Robert Tyree), telling him, "I've been hurt all my life, but real tears wash away. This one's for Allison, and I want it to last forever!"

Eventually, after performing with Baldwin and the Whiffles Cry-Baby wins, as Baldwin chickens out, and is reunited with Allison. During the race, Pepper gives birth to a baby in the backseat, and her boyfriend proposes by holding up a sign.

The film ends with all watching the chicken race crying a single tear, except for Allison and Cry-Baby, who has finally let go of the past, enabling him to cry from both eyes.

####The Crystal Ball####
A maid, in cahoots with Madame Zenobia (Gladys George), a fake psychic, fools Jo Ainsly (Virginia Field) into believing Zenobia to be a gifted fortune teller.

Madame Zenobia helps a young beauty queen, Toni Gerard (Paulette Goddard), find a job with Pop Tibbots (Cecil Kellaway) in an arcade. Toni ends up conspiring with Madame Zenobia to fool Jo's handsome attorney, Brad Cavanaugh (Ray Milland), into buying a piece of land.

The plan backfires when the land purchase gets Brad in trouble with the government. Toni, who has fallen for Brad, tries to persuade Zenobia to reveal her deceit, but Zenobia locks her in a closet and flees. Toni has to convince Brad that her love for him is real.

####Curly Top####
A bachelor wants to adopt an orphan, but she refuses to leave behind her older sister, so he adopts them both. The man eventually falls in love with the latter.

####Curtain Call####
Stevenson Lowe (James Spader) has a publishing business that's in trouble and a girlfriend (Polly Walker), who is also being pursued by a U.S. Senator (Sam Shepard). Stevenson buys a townhouse, for himself, which disappoints her. A pair of quarrelsome ghosts, Max Gale (Michael Caine) and Lily Marlowe (Maggie Smith), who once worked in the theatre, now quarrel with each other while advising Stevenson why marriage is a bad idea.

####Cutthroat Island####
In 1668 Jamaica, Morgan Adams having escaped a sting operation to capture her with aid of her father's boatswain Mr. Glasspoole and Bowen, hunts down her uncle and fellow pirate Dawg Brown, who has captured her father, Black Harry. Black Harry has one of three pieces of a map to a huge stash of gold on the remote Cutthroat Island. Dawg has another piece, having stolen it from the corpse of a third brother, Richard, while a fourth brother, Mordechai, has the last piece. Harry refuses to give Dawg his piece and escapes with Morgan's help, but not before being mortally wounded by Snelgrave, Dawg's one armed and one eyed first mate. A dying Harry reveals to his daughter the location of the map piece: on his scalp. At the same time in Port Royal, during a ball hosted by its corrupt Governor Ainslee, thief William Shaw is captured by Captain Trotter, having fleeced several guests of their valuables.

Morgan, now captain of the "Morning Star", sets out for the treasure. Unable to translate the map, they go to Port Royal to find a translator. Learning that Shaw, up for slave auction, is fluent in Latin, Morgan wins the auction. When she is recognized from her wanted poster and barely escapes with Shaw, Ainslee vows to find her, either to arrest her or form a partnership for half her profits. He enlists the help of chronicler John Reed, who often follows pirates to write his books.

The crew finds Mordechai in Spittlefield Harbor. Before they can learn where the second piece is, Dawg appears; a fight ensues, during which Mordechai is mortally wounded, Morgan is shot, and Shaw secretly finds the map piece and keeps it to himself. Escaping on the "Morning Star", Morgan collapses from her wound, but is saved by Shaw, a self-proclaimed doctor. The two start a romance. Morgan figures out that the words on the two map pieces, when read backwards, spell out half the coordinates to the island.

Dawg pursues the "Morning Star" in his own ship, the "Reaper". Morgan directs hers toward a coral reef and a gale. Shaw manages to determine the location of Cutthroat Island with his and Morgan's map pieces, but is caught and thrown in the brig. During the storm, Reed sends a carrier pigeon revealing their location to Ainslee. Scully leads a mutiny, marooning Morgan and those loyal to her in a boat. The tide takes them straight to Cutthroat Island.

As Morgan goes after the treasure, Shaw escapes and steals the last piece from Dawg. Shaw falls into quicksand and Morgan, realizing he has the piece, frees him. Together, they find the treasure, only for it to be stolen by Dawg, forcing them to jump off a cliff into the sea.

After regaining consciousness, Shaw finds Reed, who leads him into a trap set by Dawg, Ainslee and Scully, who have joined forces and intend to split the treasure, with Ainslee intending to pardon the pirates by re-classifying them as privateers. As Shaw is captured and they make their way out to sea with the gold, Morgan sneaks aboard the "Morning Star" and retakes it from Scully and the mutineers, throwing them overboard to swim back to Cutthroat Island, while overpowering Captain Trottersndwho has become disappointed by Ainslee's actions.

Dawg deduces that Morgan has retaken control of "Morning Star". He convinces Ainslee to hang Shaw from the yardarm of "Reaper", causing the "Morning Star" crew to act prematurely. A sea fight ensues, during which Shaw escapes and Ainslee, his men, and Reed are killed by cannon fire. Realizing his future in the army is over, Captain Trotter saves Mr. Blair by killing a fellow soldier before turning on the rest of his remaining comrades, while Mr. Glasspoole tricks Snelgrave into entangling himself in the anchor then dropping it to the depths. Morgan boards the "Reaper" and blows out the ship's bottom to get to the treasure. She then kills Dawg in a duel and saves Shaw from the sinking "Reaper".

Morgan had attached a marker barrel to the treasure beforehand, allowing them to retrieve it, and the newly rich crew sets sail for Madagascar.

####Daddies####
As described in a review in a film magazine, at a reunion of a bachelors’ club the five remaining members are shocked at the defection of one of their number, who pays his forfeit to get married. Another receives a letter that his chum, about to die, has left him his little girl, and the other three are persuaded to also adopt war orphans. Robert Audrey (Myers) finds his in an eighteen-year-old girl, Ruth (Marsh); old James Crockett (Gillingwater), who grudgingly accepts a boy, really gets a little girl, while Allen (Louis) finds three boys, triplets, have been awarded to him. These kiddies gradually work themselves into the affections of their foster parents until each one marries to provide a "mother" for the children. Finally Robert finds that he loves his "orphan," Ruth, and marries her, and the club goes to smash.

####Dames####
Eccentric multimillionaire Ezra Ounce (Hugh Herbert), whose main purpose in life is raising American morals through a nationwide campaign, wants to be assured that his fortune will be inherited by upstanding relatives.  He visits his cousin Matilda Hemingway (ZaSu Pitts) in New York City, in Horace's view the center of immorality in America. What Ounce finds most offensive are musical comedy shows and the people who put them on, and it just so happens that Matilda's daughter Barbara (Ruby Keeler) is a dancer and singer in love with a struggling singer and songwriter, her 13th cousin, Jimmy Higgens (Dick Powell). On Ezra's instructions, Jimmy the "black sheep" has been ostracized by the family, on pain of not receiving their inheritance.

Matilda's husband Horace (Guy Kibbee) meets a showgirl named Mabel (Joan Blondell), who's been stranded in Troy when her show folds, and connives her way into sleeping in Horace's train compartment as a way to get back home.  Terrified of scandal, he leaves her some money and his business card, along with a note telling her to not mention their meeting to anyone; but when Mabel discovers that Horace is Barbara's father, she blackmails him into backing Jimmy's show.

####The Dancin' Fool####
As described in a film publication, Sylvester Tibble (Reid), a country yokel, comes to New York City to work at his uncle Enoch Jones's (Hatton) jug business for $6 per week and earns extra money dancing at a jazz cabaret. He becomes the dance partner of Junie Budd (Daniels). They soon find romance while performing Apache dance routines. Sylvester also makes a success of his uncle's business by introducing modern business methods.

####Dancing Co-Ed####
When a dancer's partner becomes pregnant, a nationwide search is instituted to find a replacement from among college women. A perfect choice is found, but she is not in school, resulting in various hijinks.

####Dancing in the Dark####
This musical comedy stars William Powell as Emery Slade, an unlikeable actor who was once a major film star, but who has not worked in ten years. Slade tries to convince studio chief Melville Crossman (Adolphe Menjou) to give the female lead in the film version of a Broadway musical to an unknown, rather than the actress he was sent to New York to sign.

####Dancing Lady####
Janie Barlow is a young dancer who is reduced to stripping in a burlesque show. Arrested for indecent exposure, she is bailed out by millionaire playboy Tod Newton who was attracted to her while slumming at the theatre with his society pals. When she tries to get a part in a Broadway musical, Tod intercedes with director Patch Gallagher to get her the job: he will put his money into the show, if Janie is given a part in the chorus. Even though he needs the money, Patch is resistant, until he sees Janie dance and realizes her talent.

When, after hard work and perseverance, Janie is elevated to the star's part &ndash; replacing Vivian Warner &ndash; Tod is afraid he will lose any chance of gaining her affection if she becomes a star, so he closes the show, and Janie, out of work, goes away with him. Patch starts rehearsals up again using his own money, and when Janie returns and finds out that Tod has deceived her and manipulated things behind the scenes, she dumps him and joins up with her new sweetheart, Patch, to put on the show, which is a smash hit.

####Dancing Sweeties####
Grant Withers is a conceited dancer who spends all his free time dancing. He leaves his partner Edna Murphy, after seeing Sue Carol in the dance hall. He enters the waltz contest with Carol and ends up winning the first prize. Soon after they are convinced to marry by Sid Silvers (the dance hall manager), who needs a new couple to marry in a live ceremony in the dance-hall after another couple cancelled. He convinces them when he offers them a free furnished apartment which the other couple forfeited by not showing up. Withers' and Carol's parents are shocked by news of the marriage. Withers soon gets bored of home-life and the in-laws and yearns for dancing again. He convinces Carol to join him in a dance contest, but when she is unable to perform the dance steps of a new fox-trot, they fight. The fighting continues until they split up. After a while, Grant realizes what he has lost but thinks it may be too late to patch things up.

####Danger – Love at Work####
Henry MacMorrow, a junior partner in the law firm of Parsons, Hilton, Trent and MacMorrow, is assigned the task of obtaining the signatures of various members of the Pemberton family so that a piece of property they own can be sold. While en route by train to the Pemberton home in Aiken, South Carolina, he meets Junior Pemberton, an obnoxious ten-year-old prodigy whose behavior prompts Henry to kick him in the pants when they arrive at the station, much to the dismay of the boy's sister Toni.

Henry arrives at the Pemberton home before Toni and Junior, and the rest of the family mistakes him for her fiancé Howard Rogers. She quickly corrects the misunderstanding and soon finds herself liking the amiable lawyer, despite their unpleasant first meeting. Mistakenly believing the millionaire Henry is impoverished and the sole support of his widowed mother, Toni promises to help him financially, but Howard convinces the family Henry is a fraud. The attorney returns to New York City, where he promptly is fired.

Anxious to find Henry, Toni convinces the Pembertons their town is being quarantined, and the entire family travels to New York. When Toni learns Henry has lost his job, she vows to help him get it back. She urges her family to sign the documents allowing their land to be sold, and then she and Henry go to the country to obtain the signatures of her Aunts Pitty and Patty and Uncle Goliath.

Howard, still certain Henry is a con artist, decides to assess the Pemberton's property and discovers oil, unaware it has leaked from his own car. Believing the land is worth a fortune, he persuades the family to sell it to him for $125,000 and convinces them Henry was trying to scam them. Thinking Henry was deceiving her, Toni ends their relationship.

Howard discovers the oil was from his car and tries to get his money back, only to discover the Pembertons already have spent it. When he decides to sell the land to Henry, Toni tries to warn him, but he refuses to speak to her, until Pitty and Patty reveal Toni and Henry spent the night in their barn, and Toni pretends he took advantage of her. Her family storms Henry's apartment and demands he make an honest woman of her, and he willingly agrees to marry Toni.

####The Darwin Awards####
The film opens with a car with a JATO rocket strapped to it. The movie then shifts to Michael Burrows, a criminal profiler for the San Francisco Police Department. Shot in documentary style, the film is ostensibly a dissertation by a film school grad that follows Michael throughout the story. Fired from the police force after his hematophobia allows a serial killer to get away, Michael wallows in a deep depression for several weeks before coming up with a way to combine his Darwin Awards obsession with his talent for profiling. He will help insurance companies detect people more likely to accidentally end their own lives, so they are not sold insurance policies. After impressing an insurance company manager with his profiling talent, Michael is paired up with Siri, a specialist in strange insurance cases.

Siri and Michael travel the country on behalf of the company, investigating several legendary examples of stupidity, such as the JATO rocket car. A pair of men attempting to ice fish become  frustrated and use a stick of dynamite to blast a hole in the ice. The problem is their dog plays fetch with the lit dynamite and runs it back to their brand-new SUV. As they investigate the cases, Michael tries to pinpoint a common factor for these people. The only explanation is a confused monologue by Siri about insurance companies always denying claims and driving people insane.

Michael narrowly avoids becoming a Darwin Award winner throughout the movie. He and Siri are stranded in the middle of nowhere on a cold night. Desperate for warmth, he attempts to start a fire with gasoline, causing his car to explode. Siri later confronts Michael, accusing him of being obsessed with the Darwin Awards.

A twist of fate leads to Michael discovering where the murder suspect he originally allowed to escape now lives, as he videotapes the man in his home by rappelling down the side of the building. The film school student is seen for the first time as he, too, is hanging on the side of the building. The problem is his rope is the other end of the same one Michael is dangling by. The stone vase on the roof that the pair is anchored to starts inching closer to the edge. At the same time the serial killer taunts them while slicing open the captive Siri's hand, hoping to trigger Michael's hematophobia. But Michael is able to overcome his fear and defeats the serial killer.

####Date and Switch####
Best friends Matty and Michael break up with their high-school girlfriends, Em and Ava, while making a pact to have a sexual relationship with an older woman. Matty also comes out as gay to Em. Matty and Michael make a pot brownie as a motivational prize for having sex before prom, but Michael feels betrayed when Matty comes out to him. He avoids Matty until Em explains that his friend needs his support, and they go to a gay club where they unexpectedly meet two of their teachers. Outside the club, a young man named Greg hits Michael's car and they get into a fight.

Michael tries auditioning as a vocalist for Matty's band. At night, the friends go to another gay club where they take drugs and dance. Matty stops by Em's house and they have sex. Later, Matty meets Greg and they have fun together. Michael fails to get back together with Ava, and Em drives him to the garage and helps him talk with his mechanic. Later, after giving up on the band, Michael is told by Em that Ava had been cheating on him. They hang out at a construction site and Michael begins to proposition Em when they see Matty making out with Greg, and all four feel awkward.

Matty and Michael mend their friendship the next day at a go-kart track. Michael tries to proposition Em again but she tells him about the night she and Matty had sex, and he leaves her. Michael gets drunk and outs Matty to his parents, and Matty sends him a hate message. Em criticizes Michael the next day at school. Ostracized, Michael returns to the first gay bar and meets Greg, and they learn that Matty won't talk to either of them.

At prom, Michael brings Greg as his date while Matty brings Em. Michael gets on stage and sings a song from his and Matty's fourth-grade play, when they became best friends. Michael is accused of being gay and he responds that Greg is a cool guy and that he doesn't care if people call him gay. Michael and Matty apologize to Em and Greg, and go out to the parking lot. Michael was going to get rid of the pot brownie but Matty says that it's beautiful and artistic. They reconcile and, joined by Em and Greg, eat the brownie together. Too high to go back into the prom, they go out to a gay club and dance together, on what Matty declares to be the best day of his life.

####Date Movie####
Obese Julia Jones dreams of marrying Napoleon Dynamite, but even in her dreams, she is rejected. Writing in her diary, she thinks she will never find her true love. Julia goes outside and dances to impress men on the streets, but is unsuccessful.

At Julia's father Frank's Greek diner, where she meets and is instantly attracted to Grant Funkyerdoder. Frank barks an order at her and when she turns to respond she accidentally hits Grant over the head with a coffee pot, knocking him to the floor. She turns around, finding his table suddenly empty and figures he ran away.

Julia seeks help from the love therapist Hitch, who initially rejects her but finally agrees, taking her to a garage where she gets "pimped out" and made slimmer. She earns a spot on a reality television dating show called "The Extreme Bachelor: Desperate Edition", the bachelor turns out to be Grant. Host Ty Andrews introduces him, who greets all the women and is asked to eliminate the losers, which he does by shooting them one by one.

As the last woman standing, Julia is rewarded with dinner for two at "A Restaurant". After their meal, Julia and Grant venture to her apartment, where they have sex. Julia takes Grant to meet her parents.

Later, Grant takes Julia to Tiffany & Co., where the salespeople reveal that she may pick whatever she wants. He then declares he loves her and proposes, and she happily accepts. The couple then meets with Grant's parents, Bernie and Roz, who recommend a wedding planner, after which Roz reveals that Grant lost his virginity to the housekeeper, Eduardo.

Julia stresses that she wants a traditional wedding to the wedding planner Jell-O. She suggests Taco Butt, but when they decline, she gets upset, telling them it's the best she can do on short notice. Grant tries to ease the awkward situation by saying he has a best man they will meet up with later, which relaxes Jell-O.

Jell-O uses her massive butt to knock over her desk, then aggressively rips off her clothes to reveal a gold spandex bra and tights, shocking them and revealing that she is the wedding entertainment. She shows off her dance moves until she backs up to them. They scream in fear as she joyfully crushes & smothers them with her butt, getting even for their declining of her earlier offer.

Grant introduces Julia to his ex-fiancée, Andy, who seemingly harbors no resentment towards Julia for marrying Grant, even helping Julia shop for her wedding dress. At the bridal shop, Julia hits her head on a power box and suddenly can read people's thoughts. Reading Andy's mind, she realises Andy wants to get back together with Grant and plans to split them up. The women fight each other, "Kill Bill"-style.

On the wedding day Julia arrives late, then witnesses Grant and Andy sharing a kiss (but Julia is unaware that Grant tried to reject her), leaving Julia heartbroken. Unable to forgive Grant, she agrees to marry Nicky.

Once at the altar with Nicky, Julia is regretting it, having flashbacks about her and Grant. Frank objects to the union, realizing he was wrong about Grant who liked her even before the makeover. He persuades her to go after Grant who is revealed to have waited for months. Julia hurries to meet him as he is leaving, while shoving aside Andy who was pursuing him too.

Julia arrives too late and sees Grant on the streets before she falls off the roof, though Grant conveniently catches her. They get back together and get married, with Hitch officiating and now dating Jell-O. Andy and Nicky meet at the wedding and fall in love. Meanwhile, Grant and Julia leave in a horse and carriage. Roz gifts her a vaginal thermometer which apparently has been in their family for generations and is regarded as good luck when kept unwashed.

On their honeymoon, Grant and Julia go to Skull Island and film a woman, Anne, tied between two poles. After King Kong rips off her dress and gropes her, she says "I like hairy boys", so King Kong flattens her.

####Date Night####
Phil and Claire Foster are a married couple from New Jersey with two children, Ollie and Charlotte, and whose domestic life has become boring and routine. Their sex life is perfunctory and demystified. Phil is a tax lawyer while Claire is a realtor. They are motivated to reignite their romance after learning that their best friends, Brad and Haley, are planning to divorce to escape the married-life routine and to have more excitement in their lives.

To avoid the routine that had become their weekly "date night", Phil decides that he will take Claire to a trendy Manhattan restaurant, but they cannot get a table. Phil steals a reservation from a no-show couple, the Tripplehorns, despite Claire's misgivings. While eating, they are approached by two men, Collins and Armstrong, who question them about a flash drive they believe Phil and Claire stole from mobster boss Joe Miletto. Phil and Claire explain that they are not the Tripplehorns, but the men do not believe them and threaten them at gunpoint. Not seeing any other way out, Phil lies and tells them it is in a boathouse in Central Park.

At the boathouse, Claire pretends to search and while Collins and Armstrong's backs are turned, Phil hits them with a paddle and escapes with Claire in a boat. At a police station, Phil and Claire talk with Detective Arroyo, but discover Collins and Armstrong are also detectives, presumably on Miletto's payroll. Realizing they cannot trust the police, they decide to find the real Tripplehorns. They return to the restaurant and find the cellphone number of the Tripplehorns.

Claire remembers a former client, Holbrooke Grant, a security expert and James Bond-like action hero. At his apartment, Grant traces the cellphone signal to an apartment owned by Thomas Felton. Collins and Armstrong arrive, but Phil and Claire escape in Grant's Audi R8.

They arrive at Felton's apartment and break in. They question Felton, nicknamed "Taste", and his wife "Whippit" about the flash drive and Joe Miletto. It turns out that they went to the restaurant, but left when they spotted Collins. Realizing they are in danger, the couple give the flash drive to Phil and flee. When Phil and Claire get back in the Audi, Armstrong and Collins shoot at them. Phil and Claire crash the Audi into a Ford Crown Victoria taxicab, resulting in the cars being attached at the bumpers. Phil and the cab driver decide to drive off to get away. Phil climbs into the Ford to navigate while Claire navigates the Audi. Phil inserts the flash drive into the driver's Amazon Kindle and finds pictures of district attorney Frank Crenshaw with prostitutes. After evading Collins and Armstrong, they are eventually hit and are separated by an SUV. The cab falls into the river; Phil and the driver escape, but without the flash drive.

On the subway, Phil determines that Felton obtained the flash drive to blackmail Crenshaw. They return to Grant's apartment, and Grant is reluctant to help after becoming exhausted by their incompetence, but Phil begs and he agrees. Phil and Claire go to an illegal strip club that Crenshaw frequents, with Claire under the guise of a new prostitute and Phil as her pimp. After performing a pole dance for Crenshaw, they confront him and tell him they are the Tripplehorns. Collins and Armstrong come in and hold them at gunpoint and take them up to the roof with Crenshaw. Miletto arrives with henchmen and it is revealed that Crenshaw has been paid by Miletto to keep him out of jail. When Phil mentions the photos, an argument escalates between the mobsters and Crenshaw, Collins and Armstrong talk. Phil asks Claire to count to three (her typical method of calming their children). When she does, a helicopter appears and Arroyo and the SWAT team arrest Miletto, Crenshaw, and everyone else, as well as Collins and Armstrong. Arroyo reveals to Claire that she was notified by Grant, who supplied Phil with a wire.

After being declared heroes, Phil and Claire enjoy breakfast at a diner, where Phil admits he would marry Claire and have their kids all over again if given the chance. When they return home, they engage in enthusiastic kissing on their front lawn before lying on their backs and watching the sky.

####Dawg####
Douglas "Dawg" Munford (Denis Leary) is the ultimate womanizer: he is selfish, rude and totally uncaring about what a woman thinks after they have sex. He arrives too late for his grandmother's funeral, but finds that she has left him a million dollars, subject to one condition.

As explained by estate executor Anna Lockhart (Elizabeth Hurley), Douglas must contact at least a dozen of the scores of women he has seduced and left during his lifetime and beg for their forgiveness. Reluctantly, Dawg sets out on his odyssey which takes him, and the lawyer, to venues throughout California. Later, he falls for Anna.

####Deal of a Lifetime####
The film centers on the main character Henry Spooner (played by Goorjian), the school nerd who has a crush on Laurie, the prettiest, most popular girl in his high school. After a conversation with his friend, he mutters under his breath that he would sell his soul to the Devil to go out with Laurie. From that point on, he gets his wish to date Laurie, but things don't go according to plan.

####Dear Heart####
Evie Jackson (Geraldine Page) is a middle-aged, single postmaster from small-town Ohio who is attending a postmasters' convention at a New York City hotel. Outgoing, honest, and somewhat tactless, she has many friends but pines for a romantic relationship, one that will be more meaningful than the flings she has had with married conventioneers in previous years. She uses various means to make herself feel less lonely and more important, such as sending herself a welcome message and having herself paged in the hotel lobby.

Harry Mork (Glenn Ford) is a middle-aged, womanizing, former traveling salesman for a greeting card company, who now wishes to settle down. Harry has accepted a promotion to an office job in New York City, and has gotten engaged to Phyllis (Angela Lansbury), a middle-aged, widowed housewife from Altoona, Pennsylvania. Harry is staying alone in the same hotel as Evie while he starts his new job and finds an apartment, where Phyllis, who is still back in Altoona, will later join him. While Harry is checking in, Phyllis's son Patrick (Michael Anderson Jr.) suddenly arrives, seeking to bond with his new father. Harry is surprised to find that Patrick is not the young boy he had expected based on a photograph, but instead is an 18-year-old bohemian with a beard (which, it is later revealed, got him expelled from boarding school). Harry is mildly annoyed by Patrick's unexpected arrival and embarrassed by his casual attitude toward women, sex, and nudity, particularly after Patrick moves into Harry's hotel room with his purportedly platonic female friend Émile Zola Bernkrand (Joanna Crawford).

Evie first meets Harry when they are forced to share a dinner table in the crowded hotel restaurant, but Harry is more interested in buxom blonde June Loveland (Barbara Nichols), a clerk in the hotel gift shop, than he is in the overly friendly Evie, and he quickly makes an excuse to leave for a tryst with June. Returning to the hotel, Harry meets Evie again in the lobby, where she is upset after escaping from the unwanted sexual advances of a strange man outside her room. Harry escorts her back to her room, and they make plans to go to the Statue of Liberty the next morning. However, the next morning, Patrick shows up again wanting to spend the day with Harry, so Harry breaks his date with Evie to look at apartments with Patrick and Zola. A disappointed Evie spends the day (after attending a postmaster seminar and party) with a trio of older spinster postmasters, but cheers up when Harry returns, proves that he left a message for her (at the front desk) about the change of plans, and offers to take her to dinner and show her the apartment he rented in Greenwich Village.

Evie optimistically thinks Harry is planning to reveal that the apartment is intended for the two of them to occupy, and she is crushed when she realizes that Harry is planning to live there with his soon-to-be wife Phyllis. Harry takes Evie back to the hotel and impulsively kisses her, but Phyllis unexpectedly arrives from Altoona. So Harry goes to stay with her in the hotel across the street while Evie sadly arranges to return to Ohio the next day. Harry soon discovers that Phyllis does not want to live a happy, domestic life with him in the future in the old-fashioned apartment he rented. Instead, she wants to live in modern hotels with room service, where she won't have to cook or clean, and she wants to sleep in separate beds. She also wants Harry to be a father figure to Patrick so she won't have to deal with him and his teenage problems. Harry realizes that he truly loves Evie and that Patrick and Phyllis need to spend more time with each other rather than with him. He breaks his engagement and happily reunites with Evie at the busy train station just before she would have returned home.

####Dear Ruth####
Teenager Miriam Wilkins is an energetic activist during World War II. She blithely involves her family by enlisting them for causes without first gaining their consent. Her father Judge Wilkins and mother Edie are puzzled when Lieutenant William Seacroft, a complete stranger, appears at their home asking for their 22-year-old daughter Ruth. Bill has just returned from Italy, where he flew 25 missions over Germany as the bombardier of a B-26 bomber, but he has only two days of leave. He explains that he has been corresponding with their daughter and has fallen in love with her. He makes a favorable impression and promises to return later to meet her for the first time in person.

Ruth comes home and tells her parents that she is engaged to be married. They assume that she had encountered Bill, but she is engaged to her boyfriend Albert. They soon discover that Miriam had written Bill 60 letters but with her sister's name and photograph. Ruth wants to tell Bill the truth immediately, but when he arrives, she cannot bring herself to do so. When Albert arrives for a date with Ruth, she slips away with Bill so that she can tell him privately.

Bill takes Ruth to a play, dinner and dancing late into the night. Later, Ruth tells Albert that after Bill leaves for the Pacific, she will write to him and gently break off their relationship. She then reads the letters from Miriam.

The next morning, Ruth insists on taking Bill's young sister Martha out with them in order to keep Bill's amorous behavior in check, so Bill invites Albert along as well. Bill takes every opportunity to kiss Ruth, infuriating Albert. After Albert becomes separated from the group at a subway station, he is arrested when trying to enter another station without paying.

Martha arrives at the Wilkins residence with Bill's friend Sergeant Chuck Vincent. Martha had very recently broken off her relationship with Chuck, making for an awkward lunch. Bill and Ruth then appear and announce that they are engaged. When Bill leaves the room, Ruth reassures Albert that the ruse must only persist for a few more hours. However, Bill receives a telephone call informing him that he and Chuck will be instructors in Florida. Chuck and Martha reconcile and decide to be married, and Judge Wilkins conducts the ceremony.

Ruth tells Bill that she had only agreed to marry him because he was returning to combat. Miriam inadvertently reveals the whole truth to Bill, who accepts the situation, but after Martha and Chuck are married, Ruth has a change of heart. She and Bill are also married by her father before leaving for Florida. A sailor then appears, asking for Ruth, and a startled Miriam blurts out his name.

####Designing Woman####
In Beverly Hills, California, covering a golf tournament, New York sports reporter Mike Hagen correctly chooses the winning golfer in the reporters' betting pool. With the $1,200 he won, Mike begins buying drinks. The next morning he awakes with no memory of the night before. Hung over and believing that he failed to file his story, Mike sits beside the hotel pool drinking coffee. When an unfamiliar woman, Marilla Brown, approaches him. Mike, through a series of misunderstandings, assumes she is a prostitute. As Marilla heatedly begins to correct him, he receives a call from his editor telling him he had received Mike's story, but that a corrupt boxing promoter was threatening Mike. Ending the call, Mike returns to Marilla who explains that she had helped him write his story. This begins a whirlwind eight-day romance which ends with marriage. Only on the flight back to New York does Mike begin to discover that Marilla had hidden the details of her job, wealth and family connections in order to land Mike. This quickly causes friction.

Mike is a sportswriter and poker enthusiast with working-class friends. Marilla designs clothes for a wide array of artistic personalities. Their friends clash memorably one Wednesday night when his Poker Club and her Drama Society both convene at Marilla's apartment.

Marilla becomes suspicious of Mike after she finds a photograph of Lori Shannon, Mike's former girlfriend. Mike tries to hide his former relationship, but fails miserably. Complicating matters even further is Mike's continuing series of exposés of the activities of crooked boxing promoter Martin Daylor. Mike's life is in danger, but he hides that from his wife as well. What results is a series of misunderstandings and mishaps.

####Desk Set####
Bunny Watson is in charge of the reference library at the Federal Broadcasting Network in Midtown Manhattan. The reference librarians are responsible for researching facts and answering questions for the general public on all manner of topics, great and small. Bunny has been romantically involved for seven years with rising network executive Mike Cutler, but with no marriage in sight.

Methods Engineer and efficiency expert Richard Sumner is the inventor of EMERAC ('E"'lectromagnetic "'ME"'mory and "'R"'esearch "'A"'rithmetical "'C"'alculator"), nicknamed "Emmy," a powerful early generation computer (referred to then as an "electronic brain").  He is brought in to see how the library functions, and size it up for installation of one of his massive machines.

Despite Bunny's initial intransigence, he is surprised and intrigued to discover how stunningly capable and engaging she is.

When her staff finds out the computer is coming, they jump to the conclusion they are being replaced. Their fears seem to be confirmed when everyone on the staff receives a pink "layoff" slip printed out by a similar new EMERAC already installed in payroll. It turns out to have been a mistake - the machine fired everybody in the company, including the president!

After an innocuous but seemingly salacious situation that Cutler walks in on at Bunny's apartment, he recognizes the older Sumner has emerged as a romantic rival, and begins to want to commit to Bunny.

Meanwhile, it is revealed that the network is secretly negotiating a merger with another company. The network has kept everything hush-hush to avoid tipping off competitors. Rather than replace the research staff, "Emmy" was installed to help the employees cope with the extra work that will result from the combined businesses.

With the threat of displacement  out of the way, Sumner reveals his romantic interest to Watson, but she believes that EMERAC will always be his first love. He denies it, but then Watson puts him to the test, pressing the machine beyond its limits. Sumner resists the urge to fix it as long as possible, but finally gives in and forces an emergency shutdown. Watson then accepts his marriage proposal.

####Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo####
Deuce Bigalow, an insecure fishtank cleaner, is fired for cleaning the tank at a public aquarium while naked. Deuce is unsuccessful in attracting women, so he attempts to keep himself busy at work. On a house call, he meets the Argentinian male prostitute Antoine Laconte. Antoine is going on a business trip, and so asks Deuce to care for his sick lionfish and protect his home while he is away. Deuce accidentally sets Antoine's kitchen on fire when trying to make a grilled cheese sandwich in the toaster, and breaks an expensive fish tank, causing a lot of water damage.

Fearing Antoine will kill him (Antoine even tells him he will if he messes the place up), Deuce is forced to find a way to pay $6,000 for the damage. Low-rent pimp T.J. Hicks offers to help Deuce make enough money to buy a new fish tank, and convinces Deuce to take over the absent Antoine's role as a gigolo. Deuce decides to make the clients feel better about themselves since he only desires to have sex with beautiful women.

Deuce meets unusual clients but he still manages to get along with them, despite there being no sex involved, by helping them with certain issues in their lives. The clients include Carol, a woman who is severely narcoleptic; Ruth, who has Tourette syndrome with coprolalia, and therefore is afraid of socializing; Fluisa, a mannish obese woman weighing close to 750 pounds; and Tina, a woman that has a pituitary gland disorder and is extremely tall. Deuce's list of clients gradually increases, with each client being satisfied by much more fulfilling measures due to his personal attention and friendship. However, Deuce falls in love with one of his clients, Kate, who has a prosthetic leg. She later breaks up with Deuce when she finds out that he was a prostitute hired by her friends.

Meanwhile, Deuce is being stalked by Detective Chuck Fowler, who demands Antoine's "black book" of clients and threatens to take Deuce to jail if he does not comply. Deuce eventually helps Fowler please his wife by stripping and erotically dancing for her, and the two make amends. Deuce is still taken into custody on prostitution charges, as Fowler needs someone to bring in and Deuce refuses to betray his friend T.J. At the hearing, it is revealed that Deuce never slept with any of the clients except for Kate. Since Deuce gave back the money to Kate and was not paid for sex with her, he is cleared of all charges.

Using the money he made, Deuce restores Antoine's fish tank, although due to time constraints, he is warned that the glass may not be installed properly. Unfortunately, Kate's blind roommate accidentally kills the prize fish in Antoine's aquarium when she starts the mixer in which the fish was being kept. Deuce buys a replacement fish and returns to Antoine's house just before he returns. Antoine taps the new aquarium and the glass shatters. Deuce then reveals his prostituting adventures to the furious Antoine. Enraged, Antoine tries to kill Deuce and at one point shoots a crossbow bolt at him. Fluisa shows up, comes between the two men, and saves Deuce's life (she is not killed because the bolt hits her breasts, between which she has hidden a roast chicken). Antoine is then arrested by Detective Fowler and Deuce marries Kate.

The end sequences then follow. Deuce's father becomes a male prostitute. Fluisa underwent extensive liposuction and became a model in Victoria's Secret known as Naomi. Ruth opens up an all-girls school for people with Tourette's. Carol manages to fulfill her dream trip to France and dies falling off the Eiffel Tower. T.J. starts his own reality show dedicated to his experiences as a male prostitute. An incarcerated Antoine marries Tina.

####The Devil and Miss Jones####
Cantankerous tycoon John P. Merrick goes undercover as a shoe clerk at "Neely's", one of his New York department stores, to identify agitators trying to form a union, after seeing a newspaper picture of his employees hanging him in effigy.

In the store he takes on a new persona, Thomas Higgins. After almost failing the minimum intelligence test he is sent to join the shoe department. There he befriends fellow clerk Mary Jones and her recently fired boyfriend Joe O'Brien, a labor union organizer. As time goes on, his experiences cause him to grow more sympathetic to his workers. He also starts to fall in love with sweet-natured clerk Elizabeth Ellis.

During a beach day at Coney Island with his coworkers, John begins to see a different side of Joe after he helps him avoid an arrest at a local police station by reciting the Bill of Rights and the Declaration of Independence. Afterwards John joins Joe, Elizabeth, and Mary on the beach, where he and Elizabeth nap until dark. Believing the two to be fully asleep, Joe and Mary discuss the union attempts and the future of their relationship. Unbeknownst to them, John listens in and after Joe leaves he pretends to awake, taking the opportunity to grab a list Joe dropped of employees willing to strike.

The remaining trio then travel home via subway, where John drops a card showing that his undercover persona was working for Merrick. This, along with other factors, causes Mary to come to the conclusion that John is a spy, and she tells Joe. Desperate to regain the list, Joe and Mary try unsuccessfully and they, along with John, end up in the store manager's office. Disgusted with the treatment of the employees, John berates the store manager, who is unaware of John's true identity. Emboldened by John, Mary declares that they have a list of 400 employees who will strike. The manager tricks the group into giving him the list. When they realize the manager's deceit, John and Mary take back the list and destroy it by eating it, after which Mary uses the intercom system to successfully encourage the entire store to strike.

In the following days, all of the employees picket Merrick's home. John decides to finally reveal his identity and has Mary, Elizabeth, and Joe meet him and his staff to discuss terms. They are initially unaware of his identity, but upon discovery, Joe faints, Mary screams, and Elizabeth stares up at John in disbelief as John asks her if she would be willing to go back on a statement she made about not wanting to marry a rich man. The film then cuts to a wedding party on a cruise liner, showing that there has been a joint wedding: John has married Elizabeth and Mary has married Joe. The party is made up of all of the store employees and it is shown that John has paid for all of them to take a Hawaiian vacation.

####Did You Hear About the Morgans?####
A successful Manhattan couple, lawyer Paul Morgan (Hugh Grant) and estate agent Meryl Morgan (Sarah Jessica Parker) are separated due to Paul's infidelity. After dinner one night, Meryl and Paul witness the murder of one of Meryl's real estate clients. As a result, they become targets of contract killer Vincent (Michael Kelly) and must enter the Witness Protection Program.

Paul and Meryl are relocated to the small town of Ray, Wyoming, and placed temporarily under the protection of husband and wife/sheriff and deputy Clay and Emma Wheeler (Sam Elliott and Mary Steenburgen). For their own safety, they are permitted no outside contact by telephone or e-mail. They have trouble adjusting to small-town life, but after a perilous encounter with a bear and awkward attempts at shooting rifles, chopping wood, and horseback riding, they eventually adjust and begin assisting the local citizens professionally. Meanwhile, neither of their assistants back in New York City know their whereabouts. Meryl secretly calls the adoption agency she's been trying to adopt through to let them know she won't be able to go through with the adoption. Vincent plants a bug at Meryl's office and in her assistant Jackie's (Elisabeth Moss) purse, hoping to gain information, which is eventually successful when Jackie hears from the adoption agency that Meryl called and what number she used.

Jackie attempts to call Meryl but Paul's assistant Adam (Jesse Liebman) stops her by kissing her, which she responds to by tasering him and then apologizing, and suggesting that he take her on a date the next day. Paul and Meryl go on a "date" in town and begin to reconcile, discussing the stress of infertility that led to their relationship deteriorating and Paul's subsequent infidelity. They get back together, but then Paul is heartbroken when he learns that Meryl had a one-night stand with one of their acquaintances during their separation. The next day, with Vincent in town unbeknownst to them, the Morgans anticipate leaving Ray for a permanent hiding place. The Wheelers invite them to a rodeo, but the Morgans are at loggerheads, so they decline. Leaving the Morgans without any form of security, the Wheelers leave for the rodeo. Vincent tries to attack the house but is accosted by a bear, which gives the Morgans time to escape. They flee on horseback to the rodeo to seek help. Vincent follows them to the rodeo where they spot him and hide in a bull suit. However, they end up in the ring with a bull, which then charges them, injuring Meryl. Meryl, unable to walk, stays hidden from Vincent while Paul impulsively confronts him with a canister of bear repellent spray. Paul accidentally sprays himself in the face, alerting Vincent who then holds Paul at gun-point. The Morgans are rescued by the Wheelers and their new friends from the town.

Six months later, Jackie and Adam are in a committed relationship while Paul and Meryl have repaired their marriage. They have an adopted baby girl from China, named Rae in honor of the Wyoming town, and Meryl is pregnant with their biological child living happily together in New York City.

####Dirty Love####
Struggling photographer Rebecca Sommers finds her model boyfriend Richard in bed with another woman. Her life falls apart, and she alternates between desire for revenge upon him, sexual promiscuity, and abandonment of all hope of love. Her best friends, Michelle and Carrie, try to set her up on dates. These include one with a freakish magician and another with a man who gives her ecstasy and has a fetish for fish. She attempts to make Richard jealous by taking a director, who is reminiscent of Woody Allen, to a runway show, but he ends up vomiting on her breasts in front of everyone.

Ultimately, Rebecca realizes she should focus her energy on being with someone who truly loves her, and that turns out to be John, her nerdy but caring best male friend who has been supportive of her through the entire ordeal.

####Disenchanted####
Giselle, Robert, and Morgan Philip are living happily togetherEfn|The events are set five years after "Enchanted" (2007) with their baby Sofia. However, life in Manhattan is starting to drag on them, so Giselle plans to move the family to Monroeville, a suburban town. The moving brings poor first experiences for them: their new house needs to be renovated, Robert has to commute to continue his job, and Morgan feels like an outcast at her new school.

King Edward and Queen Nancy visit from Andalasia to present them with a wish-granting wand. Giselle meets Malvina Monroe, the arrogant head of the town council, and learns that she is hosting a fairytale-themed ball, where Malvina's son Tyson is the ball's elected prince. To help Morgan to fit in, Giselle tries to get her elected as the ball's princess but ends up unwittingly embarrassing Morgan, resulting in a falling out between the two and Robert.

After consulting with her chipmunk friend Pip, Giselle decides to use the wand and wishes her family's life to be a "perfect fairy tale". By the next day, the town has transformed into a fantasy kingdom called Monrolasia. Morgan is happy with their new life, and Robert believes himself to be a brave adventurer. Malvina is now the town's evil queen with magical powers. Giselle also discovers uncharacteristically haughty behavior and finds pleasure in mistreating Morgan. Realizing that she is slowly turning into a wicked stepmother, Giselle asks for help from the magic wand's instruction scroll. The scroll reveals that Giselle's wish is using up Andalasia's magic to change the real world into a fairy tale and that it will become permanent after midnight.

Malvina learns about the magic wand and enlists her two servants, Rosaleen and Ruby, to steal it; however, the scroll tells her that the wand can only be used by a "true Andalasian". Giselle realizes that without the wand, she will lose herself to her wicked side, so she convinces Morgan to save them before sending her to Andalasia. There, Morgan learns that the kingdom's magic is transported to Monrolasia through a vortex, and once the spell becomes permanent, Andalasia will be gone forever. Nancy and Edward suggest that Morgan use the magic of the memories to remind Giselle of her true self. Morgan recreates a childhood drawing of their family tree with pictures of their shared memories, then heads back to the real world with Nancy.

Giselle, now under the influence of her evil personality, challenges Malvina for the royal title of Monrolasia. Giselle sends Pip, who has been turned into a tabby cat, to steal back the wand while also sending Robert on an assumed futile search for Morgan. At the ball, Giselle and Malvina engage in a magic duel, with the former easily overpowering the latter. Morgan and Nancy meet up with Robert and Tyson before rushing into the town hall to stop the duel. Morgan tosses her drawing to Giselle, who rips it, but the magic within brings the memories to life, restoring Giselle to normal.

Not wanting the spell to be broken, Malvina takes Morgan hostage and demands the wand in exchange. Giselle surrenders the wand, and Malvina breaks it in two. As midnight approaches, everything from Andalasia begins to disappear, including Giselle herself. While Robert and Tyson head to the top of the clock tower to delay the final chime, Giselle tells Morgan that by being her daughter, she is a true Andalasian, therefore capable of using the wand. Morgan wishes she were home with her mother just as Malvina attempts to make the clock tower chime before it was destroyed.

Morgan awakens in their house and finds everything normal again. Only she and Giselle are aware of the events, while everyone else believes it to be a dream. Giselle apologizes to Malvina for stepping over her plans, with Malvina allowing Giselle to join her town council. Some time later, Robert has moved his practice to Monroeville, Morgan and Tyson have started dating, and Nancy and Edward arrive for another visit to the Philips in their now happy life.

####Do Not Disturb####
American couple Mike and Janet Harper move to England for Mike's work with a company that deals in textiles and fashions. Mike wants to live in a flat in the heart of London, but Janet instead finds a rural estate 30 miles outside London in Kent, and Mike must to commute into the city by train. For convenience, Mike often stays in a company's flat in London rather than returning to Kent, but his absence causes Janet to feel lonely and neglected.

Janet believes that Mike may be having an affair with his assistant Claire Hackett, and the Harpers' busybody landlady Vanessa Courtwright encourages Janet to play Mike's game by entering into an affair of her own, even if it is fake. However, the affair may become a reality when the suave Italian antiques dealer Paul Bellari arrives to decorate the house. Bellari whisks Janet off to Paris, where she manages to deflect his advances despite her inebriation after drinking champagne. Eventually, Paul and Janet learn that their suspicions were false and they reconcile with each other.

####Doc Hollywood####
Having completed his medical residency in a Washington, D.C. hospital, Dr. Benjamin "Ben" Stone begins driving to Beverly Hills for a job interview with noted plastic surgeon Dr. Halberstrom. While passing through the small town of Grady, South Carolina, Ben crashes into a fence whilst trying to avoid hitting a cow. Unfortunately, the fence belongs to Judge Evans, who then sentences him to 32 hours of community service at the town's medical clinic.

Mayor Nick Nicholson and the town's reception committee meet Ben, hoping to hire him to replace Dr. Aurelius Hogue, who is planning to retire. While his 1956 Porsche Speedster is being repaired, Ben tends to patients and flirts with ambulance driver Vialula (better known as "Lou"), a single mother of a four-year-old daughter. Local insurance agent Hank Gordon also courts Lou, while Nancy Lee, the mayor's daughter, pursues Ben.

The town's residents begin to warm to Ben, and he in turn starts to enjoy small-town life. Hogue, initially dismissive of Ben as being too young and too inexperienced, changes his mind when he has a heart attack and Ben saves his life. Grateful, Hogue privately calls Halberstrom explaining Ben's delay due to his enforced community service (which he explains as being "volunteer work"), while Judge Evans releases Ben from his remaining sentence.

On the eve of Ben's departure, he shares an intimate evening with Lou. Unwilling to exploit the situation or incite Hank's jealousy, Ben secretly leaves town at night. Near the town's reservoir, Ben happens upon a local man whose wife is in labor inside their car. After a short hesitation, he stops to help. During the delivery, Ben's Porsche is once again damaged when a fatigued carnival truck driver knocks into it.

Ben prepares to leave the next day. The community has chipped in and bought him a plane ticket to Los Angeles. Lou, not wanting Ben to waste his talents in a small town, hides her feelings for him, and says she is marrying Hank.

Dr. Halberstrom hires Ben based on Hogue's recommendation. Beverly Hills' superficiality soon leaves Ben, who grew up in a small town, feeling depressed and isolated. A few weeks later, Hank and Nancy Lee arrive in Los Angeles, bringing Ben's repaired car with them. After Hank tells Ben that he and Lou broke off their engagement, Ben returns to Grady and reconciles with her.

####Dr. T & the Women####
Dr. Sullivan 'Sully'  Travis (aka "Dr. T.") is a wealthy Dallas gynecologist for some of the wealthiest ladies in Texas who finds his life beginning to fall apart starting when his wife, Kate, suffers from 'Hestia Complex', a rare type of stigmatization syndrome of wealthy women, receding into a strange state and, after she disrobes in a shopping mall fountain while shopping for their daughter's wedding registry at Tiffany's, is committed to the state mental hospital. When Dr. T visits  Kate, she rebuffs his kisses as improper and he sees her old psychic cannot be brought back to now by his affection. Dr. T's daughter, Dee Dee, a student at Southern Methodist University and alternate for the Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders, is planning to go through with her approaching wedding despite the secret that she is romantically involved with Marilyn, her former college friend in Houston and the maid of honor. Dr. T's daughter, Connie, is a conspiracy theorist and eventually reveals to her father that Dee Dee and Marilyn are lovers.

While Marilyn is on his examining table for the first time, she surmises her condition is caused by the stress of being the maid of honor for her friend Dee Dee. Dr. T realizes she is Dee Dee's lover and becomes embarrassed mid-examination, asking the nurse to finish.

Dr. T's loyal secretary Carolyn has romantic feelings for him, which are not mutual: in a farcical scene at the workday end, she locks the office door and gives him a shoulder-massage from behind his chair, secretly disrobing while emphasizing his need for a loving wife. Refreshed but unaware of her intentions, he goes to the coat closet, turns and finds she has vanished. From under the desk, she says he never empties his trash baskets. Approaching the desk he glimpses her state of undress and quickly leaves.

Meanwhile, Dr. T's alcoholic sister-in-law, Peggy, unintentionally meddles in every situation she stumbles into. She is currently divorced and has moved into his house with her three daughters.

At his golf club, Bree, a golf pro, gets accidentally soaked by the automatic sprinklers and he offers a towel and his dry golf cart and they decide to play the round together.  Accepting his offer for dinner, she says she knows a better place than his suggested restaurant, next they're taking grocery bags into her condo. She moves quickly and gracefully turning on the stereo music by Lyle Lovett, the grill on the balcony, putting steak on, going upstairs, into one room, then walking nude across the balcony to the shower. After dinner, she takes a bottle of wine upstairs, briefly hesitating he follows her and they become lovers. She provides friendship and comfort in his difficult office and personal life.

As Dee Dee's wedding begins the skies are darkening and thunder increasing. As the procession is blown by increasing wind, Dee Dee bypasses her groom, embraces and kisses Marilyn and the skies open up sending all the guests for shelter.  Inspired, Dr. T drives his open top convertible to Bree's house where he asks her to marry and run away with him. He offers to fulfill her every need and she asks why she would want that (this is what caused Kate's syndrome according to her psychologist). She says she has made other plans. Dr. T. asks if she is with Harlan, one of his golfing/hunting buddies, She replies: “I’m not with anybody.” Distraught, Dr. T. drives off into the storm and into a tornado as it crosses his path and is lifted into the air, tumbles in debris; the scene fades to the morning after. The camera view pans to reveal distant mountains surrounding a vast desert flat land.  His nearby car is found by three Spanish people. A little girl in a white dress with a veil sees the doctor badge on the front grill of the car Exclaiming “Dr!”. They find & lead him, still dazed, to a circle of seven tiny houses where a girl is in labor. Galvanized by the sight, he immediately washes his hands, drops his wedding ring into the basin, takes charge and delivers the baby, holding it and rejoices “it’s a boy!”

####Doctor, You've Got to Be Kidding!####
Heather Halloran, pursued by three men who want to marry her, is about to give birth. The events that led to her pregnancy are recalled. Her mother wants Heather to be a singing star but she works as a secretary for the rich Harlan Wycliff. She falls in love with Wycliff, but he wants her to abandon her budding career as a singer.

####Dog Park####
Andy writes the local newspaper classified advertisements and has been going from relationship to relationship since eighth grade. He loses custody of his dog when his girlfriend, Cheryl, breaks up with him for another man—a punk rocker named Trevor.

Andy then meets Lorna, a children's TV show host, but she is too obsessed with her own dog. She's also still emotionally fragile because her boyfriend was Trevor, who left her for Andy's ex, Cheryl. Andy meets her in a bar and takes her home as she seems interested. They begin making out, but it stops there as she throws up.

Knowing Lorna works for the TV station, Andy sends her roses and a note requesting a relationship and even calls, but she decides not to pursue. He moves on by putting himself in a dating auction. Lorna spends some time alone and finally goes out on a date with the clerk from the video store, Callum. It's not much of date, but he helps her out in a big way with the message he leaves on her machine.

Andy gets involved with the woman who won him in the auction, Kieran, a vegan nutritionist, who believes a lot of sex is beneficial. Meanwhile, Cheryl and Andy take their dog to a psychiatrist, who tells them that her having rough sex near the dog is traumatizing it.

While both Andy and Cheryl do their best to share custody, problems arise as Cheryl and Trevor break up and she unsuccessfully tries to win Andy back. On a double date, Keiran figures out Jeri's boyfriend Jeff is having an affair observing his body language on the phone.

When Rachel goes to the obedience school graduation to see Jeff's dogs get their diplomas, one of the dogs runs to Rachel and Jeri deduces the affair. They break up. Andy goes to her side to console her.

Both Andy and Lorna have feelings for each other, but aren't sure how to follow through with it. Andy dating Kieran and Lorna having a date with Callum help them come to a very important conclusion. They meet up at the bar where they first met 100 days later... and start a relationship.

####The Dog Problem####
Solo Harrington is a down-on-his-luck writer who has published an unsuccessful novel and accrued heavy debt on drugs and therapy. After being encouraged by his psychiatrist Dr. Nourmand to get a dog, Solo gets himself a scrawny little terrier, but the dog irritates him to the point that Solo doesn't give it a name. Casper, Solo's womanizing best friend, suggests that Solo sell the dog to Jules, a wealthy dog-lover, in order to pay off Benny, a loan shark who regular threatens Solo.

At a dog park, Solo meets Lola and becomes romantically interested in her. When Lola's pit bull injures Solo's unnamed dog, Solo must take him to the vet, borrowing money from Lola in the process.
Solo and Lola's friendship blossoms into the potential for romance, but a series of problems stands in the way of the couple. Solo also starts to form a bond with his dog, which complicates his situation when Jules decides she wants the dog for herself.

####Don't Bet on Women####
On a whim, Herbert Blake proposes a wager with Roger Fallon that he won't be able to get a kiss during the coming 48 hours from the next woman who happens to walk into the room. Fallon takes the bet, whereupon the woman who turns up is Herbert's wife.

####Don't Go Near the Water####
Lieutenant (j.g.) Max Siegel (Glenn Ford) and other US Navy personnel are stuck in a public relations unit far from the fighting. Lieutenant Commander Clinton T. Nash (Fred Clark), their commanding officer and a stockbroker in civilian life, refuses to allow anyone to transfer out. Much of Siegel's time is spent showing war correspondents (like obnoxious Gordon Ripwell (Keenan Wynn)) and visiting Congressmen around the island.

One day, Siegel spots beautiful local schoolteacher Melora Alba (Gia Scala). Despite some formidable obstacles, he eventually wins her love. However, they break up when he wants to live in New York City to further his career, while she feels she is needed on the island.

Meanwhile, Siegel's yeoman, Adam Garrett (Earl Holliman), falls in love with Navy nurse Alice Tomlen (Anne Francis), which constitutes a serious breach of Navy regulations, as Tomlen is an officer while Garrett is only an enlisted man. However, Siegel pretends to be dating her himself in order to give Garrett the opportunity to spend time with her. This couple also fall in love. When Nash finds out, Siegel suggests a fitting punishment would be a transfer to a fighting unit (something Garrett very much wants).

With the Army hogging the news headlines, Nash comes up with the idea to take an ordinary sailor and send him on a morale-boosting tour, all highly publicized. He chooses Farragut Jones (Mickey Shaughnessy) (a fine naval name). Unfortunately, Jones turns out to be foul-mouthed and heavily tattooed, not exactly what Nash had hoped for. He assigns Siegel to smooth out Jones's rough edges, with limited success.

Later, Siegel has to escort another war correspondent, the shapely and blonde Deborah Aldrich (Eva Gabor), when she finagles her way aboard a heavy cruiser on its way to a combat operation, much to Admiral Junius Boatwright's (Howard Smith) disapproval.

With the end of the war, Siegel realizes that he cannot live without Melora, and decides to remain on the island.

####Don't Tell Her It's Me####
Gus Kubicek (played by Guttenberg) is a depressed and overweight cartoonist who recently won a battle against Hodgkin's disease. His caring sister Lizzie Potts (Long), a nosy romance novelist, responds to his sadness by trying to set him up with a suitable woman. Yet to do so she must make him seem more dynamic and attractive. When Gus falls in love with Emily Pear (Gertz), he adopts the persona of Lobo Marunga, a leather-clad biker from New Zealand.

Emily ends up falling for Lobo but Gus tries to tell Emily the truth as he ends up in bed with her. The next day Lobo tells Emily that he's Gus and she gets furious with him and tells him to get out. Gus, hurt, supposedly goes away to New York when in fact he is going to a friend's wedding. The movie ends with Emily tracking down Gus at the airport and they share a kiss as Lizzie watches through binoculars.

####Double Dynamite####
Meek California Fidelity Trust teller Johnny Dalton asks his boss J. L. McKissack for a raise so he can marry fellow teller Mildred "Mibs" Goodhue. Though Johnny is turned down, Mibs wants to get married anyway. Emile J. Keck, a friend and waiter at an Italian restaurant they frequent, also urges Johnny to take a chance, even facetiously suggesting he rob the bank where he works. When he insists on waiting, Mibs storms out.

While returning to work, Johnny intervenes when he spots two men beating up a third in an alley. The victim, "Hot Horse" Harris, turns out to be a bookie. To show his gratitude, Harris gives a stunned Johnny $1000, but Johnny refuses to accept it. To make it easier, Harris changes it to a "loan", then promptly bets the entire amount on a sure thing in a fixed race, making sure to place the bet at the bookie joint run by his competitor (the one who had him beaten up). From the winnings, Harris takes back the loan, and Johnny is left with $5000. Harris then makes two more bets for Johnny, both winners. Johnny now has won $60,000. Harris has only $40,000 on hand, so he tells Johnny he will send him the rest later. Johnny rushes off to share the good news with Emile, but Emile believes he took his advice about bank robbery.

As it turns out, the bank's auditors have discovered there is $75,000 missing. Fearing he will be suspected of the crime, Johnny enlists Emile's help in hiding the money. When he tells Mibs about his windfall, she does not believe his story either. She finds $20,000, the remainder of what Harris owes Johnny, and goes to see Bob Pulsifer, Jr., the lazy, lecherous son of the bank's founder. She offers it to him on condition that he not inform the police about Johnny, but he telephones them anyway.

Mibs insists on driving Johnny to Mexico, but they are caught. Much to the couple's surprise, the police know that Johnny won the money; instead, they arrest Mibs, as the auditors tracked the $75,000 to her. However, Johnny discovers by accident that Mibs's adding machine is malfunctioning: according to it, 2+2=5 and 3+3=7. Afterward, Mibs tells a man she thinks is a "reporter" about all the expensive gifts Johnny has given her, only to learn that the man actually works for the IRS.

####Double Exposure####
In New York City, James R. Tarlock (Richard Gaines), a fitness fanatic and publisher of the picture magazine "Flick", tells his editor, Larry Burke (Chester Morris), to hire Pat Marvin (Nancy Kelly), a small town Iowa photographer, based on a great photograph of a crashing airplane. After Tarlock leaves, Larry fires a photographer for faking a picture. It turns out that Pat's boyfriend, Ben Scribner (Phillip Terry), faked her airplane picture. Pat is very excited about the job offer. Ben is less enthused about her leaving for the big city, but supports her decision to take the job.

Larry is pleased to discover that his new employee is an attractive woman and takes her out to dinner. Pat seizes an opportunity by taking photographs of Dolores Tucker (Jane Farrar), the wife of much-married millionaire Sonny Tucker (Charles Arnt), laying on the floor of the restaurant's ladies' room after a suicide attempt. For a follow-up, Pat disguises herself as a chorus girl to gain entrance to Sonny's apartment. Dolores walks in shortly afterward and becomes very jealous. Pat has to knock her out with a punch to get away, taking pictures of Dolores and Sonny before and after.

Pat invents a brother named Ben to fend off Larry's amorous advances. To Pat's surprise, the real Ben follows her to New York. When Larry walks in on them, Pat introduces her "brother". Ben reluctantly goes along with the deception. He decides to stay in New York, and talks Larry into giving him a job.

Meanwhile, Sonny asks Pat to marry him, after he divorces Dolores. Dolores makes a scene when she finds them together at a nightclub.

Larry finally finds out about Ben and does not believe Pat when she says she was going to tell him. In anger, he sends Ben on an assignment, one that (unbeknownst to him) puts him aboard a ship bound for Russia. Meanwhile, Tarlock assigns Pat to take a series of photographs of a fake murder for the magazine's readers to try to solve. However, the photo of Pat, as the "victim", looks just like a real police photo of the dead Dolores, slumped face down on a couch. Pat is indicted for murder. Larry tries to get Ben back to corroborate Pat's story, but learns that Ben was not among the survivors when his ship was torpedoed. Larry proves that Dolores was killed by Sonny. Afterward, Larry breaks up with Pat, guilt-ridden over Ben's death. Then Ben shows up and punches him. It turns out Ben spent 20 days on a raft with another woman and married her.

####Double Wedding####
Charles Lodge (William Powell), a free-spirited bohemian who lives in a cluttered car trailer, disrupts the well-ordered life of successful, hardworking businesswoman Margit Agnew (Myrna Loy) when he convinces her younger sister Irene (Florence Rice) that she should become an actress. However, Margit is determined that Irene marry the fiancé she (and her mother before) had personally picked out for her sister, the pliable, weak-willed cousin Waldo (John Beal).

Fed up with Waldo's lack of initiative during a four-year engagement, Irene becomes infatuated with Charles. He pretends to return her feelings so he can stay close to Margit. When Margit confronts him, he agrees to never see Irene again if Margit will let him paint her portrait. She reluctantly agrees to three weeks of sittings. As they spend time together, she begins to respond to his decidedly unconventional charms. Meanwhile, Charles tries to teach Waldo to stand up for himself so that he can regain Irene's regard, but with little luck.

When Irene shows up unexpectedly at his trailer, Charles gets her to leave, but she is spotted by Margit. Believing he lied about giving Irene up, she angrily smashes the painting over his head. Charles arranges for a wedding, ostensibly to marry Irene, but actually as a ploy to simultaneously reconcile Irene and Waldo and win Margit's hand. However, Waldo is nowhere to be seen when Charles is asked if he will take Irene for his wife. He is forced to answer no, and that he is really in love with Margit. She finally admits she loves him too. A drunk Waldo then shows up, punches Charles in the nose and carries a delighted Irene off.

####Down to Earth####
Terpsichore, one of the Nine Muses of Olympus, is annoyed that popular Broadway producer Danny Miller is putting on a play which portrays the Muses as man-crazy tarts fighting for the attention of a pair of Air Force pilots who crashed on Mount Parnassus. She asks permission from Mr. Jordan to go to Earth and fix the play. Jordan agrees and sends Messenger 7013 to keep an eye on her. Terpsichore uses the name Kitty Pendleton and quickly gets an agent, Max Corkle, and a part in the show. As the play is being rehearsed, Kitty convinces Danny that his depictions of the Muses is wrong. Danny, who has fallen madly in love with Kitty, soon agrees with her point of view and alters the play from a musical farce to a high-minded ballet in the style of Martha Graham, scored by Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco.

The revised play debuts on the road and is a complete flop. Danny, who is in debt to gangsters who will kill him unless the show is a success, is forced to go back to his original concept. He and Kitty quarrel over this, and Kitty plans to leave when Jordan shows up and explains the situation. Despite her argument with Danny, Kitty still loves him and decides to save him at the expense of her and her sisters' reputation. Overhearing the exchange, Corkle realizes that Jordan is the same heavenly messenger he had heard about some time ago when his friend Joe Pendleton had died and switched bodies. Corkle reveals that Joe, now living his life as K.O. Murdock, is happily married with two children.

Kitty returns to the musical and performs "Swingin' the Muses" in Danny's original vision. When the musical becomes a hit, Kitty learns her time on Earth is up and she must return to Heaven, despite her pleas to stay with Danny. She manages to convince Corkle to tell the police about the gangsters before finding herself becoming invisible to mortals. Though he cannot see her, Danny discovers her coat that she left behind and becomes devastated at her sudden departure. He recasts the Terpsichore role to chorus girl Georgia Evans, who hires Corkle as her new agent. In Heaven, Jordan assures Kitty that she will see Danny again and grants her a vision of their eventual reunion in the afterlife.

####Down to Earth####
Lance Barton is a struggling comedian who is quite funny and confident in his personality, but is unable to bring his talent across in front of an audience. After being booed off stage one night, he hears about an opportunity from his manager, Whitney Daniels at the Apollo Theater, which is having a farewell show due to its imminent closing. He is hoping to get a chance to prove himself in front of a real audience, when on his way home riding a bike, Lance is distracted by Sontee Jenkins. He is hit by a truck and is instantly killed.

Lance is brought up to Heaven, where he meets the angels, King and Keyes, who reveal that Lance has been taken before his time, and  though his body had been destroyed by the truck, they can help Lance return to Earth. After sorting through many bodies, they find Charles Wellington III, an extremely rich businessman freshly drowned in his tub by his wife and assistant, Winston Sklar. Lance is reluctant until he discovers that Sontee, the woman he saw before his death, is protesting Charles by handcuffing herself to a coffee table in his penthouse, demanding Charles' presence. Seeing this as a chance to get to know her, Lance makes a deal with King to temporarily lend Charles' body until a more suitable body is found. Soon after, Charles returns from death, but with the witty soul of Lance inside him. Everyone except for the angels and him sees him as the middle-aged, rich, white Charles.

Although Charles was unpopular in the past, the public and those closest to Charles start to notice a change in his personality. He transforms from a snobbish billionaire to a philanthropist, including giving the maid Wanda a raise. Despite recent events, Lance continues to follow his comedy dreams through Charles, contacting his old manager Whitney and convincing him that he is Lance reincarnated. Through many humorous moments and issues, he gets Sontee to fall in love with him.

All too soon, Charles is murdered by a hired assassin. Fulfilling the deal Lance and King set up earlier, King and Keyes then send Lance to return yet again to Earth as Joe Guy, a great comedian and more acceptable candidate, who will die in a car accident. Joe returns from this accident unscathed, now with Lance's soul.

After pulling off a successful performance at the Apollo and reconnecting with Whitney, King and Keyes inform Lance that after their current conversation, he will not remember them or his past lives, but his personality will remain. After they leave, he reconnects with Whitney again, and proceeds to get Sontee to fall in love with him again, after meeting her in the theater for the first time as Joe Guy.

####Down with Love####
In 1962, aspiring author Barbara Novak arrives in New York to submit her book, "Down with Love" to Banner House publishing. It is about freeing women from love, enjoying sex without commitment, and replacing the need for a man with things such as chocolate. Barbara believes her rules will help boost women in the workplace and the world in general.

When Banner House's male executives reject the book, Vikki Hiller, Barbara's editor, suggests Barbara meet with Catcher Block—a successful writer for "Know" magazine and a notorious ladies' man—to help promote the book. However, Catcher repeatedly avoids meeting Barbara until, fed up, she insults him. Catcher's boss and best friend, Peter MacMannus, and Vikki develop a mutual attraction, but neither is brave enough to express their feelings. Peter feels overshadowed by Catcher's strong personality, and Vikki wants to see strength in her lover, even assuming Peter must be gay.

Barbara and Vikki persuade Judy Garland to sing "Down with Love" on "The Ed Sullivan Show" to promote the book. Sales skyrocket, as women around the world rebel against their men; Catcher now wants to meet Barbara but "she" rejects "him". The breaking point comes as Barbara appears on a national TV show and discusses a chapter from her book—"The Worst Kind of Man"—and cites Catcher Block as the perfect example, causing the women he dates to reject him.

Catcher schemes to prove Barbara really wants love and marriage like every other woman. He poses as Major Zip Martin, a polite and attentive astronaut. Barbara is immediately infatuated with a man who seems unaware of her celebrity, in contrast to the men who now avoid her since her book was published. As "Zip" takes her to fashionable New York locations, he maintains sexual tension by feigning naivete and a desire to remain chaste until he is "ready" for a physical relationship. His plan becomes complicated after he starts falling for her.

When Barbara encounters Catcher/Zip at a party, which nearly exposes his true identity, he decides to take things to the next level. He tells her Catcher Block wants to interview him for an exposé on the NASA space program and asks her to be there. At his apartment, he sets everything up to record her saying she loves him. Just as they are about to have sex, one of his lovers, Gwendolyn, walks in. Not knowing who Barbara is, she exposes Catcher's identity, forcing him to confess to Barbara.

Barbara then reveals she is actually Nancy Brown, one of Catcher's many former secretaries, who'd fallen love with him whilst working at "Know". She had turned down a date with him, refusing to be another fling. She wanted to be different from the other women he knew, and make him fall in love with her. Catcher proclaims he wants to marry her, but Gwendolyn, having overheard Barbara Novak's name, thanks her for what she has done for womankind.

Barbara realizes she does not want love or Catcher, as she has become a real "down with love" girl. Vikki and Peter's relationship also changes when she insults him for helping Catcher. Peter says he is indeed like any other man, and takes Vikki to Catcher's apartment to have passionate sex with her.

Days later, Catcher is completely depressed and has failed to win back Barbara. Even his exposé, which he wrote on how falling in love with her made him a better man, is ruined now that Barbara has told her story in her own magazine, "Now". Catcher goes to "Now" on the pretense of a job interview. He tells Barbara how much she has changed him and wishes there could be a middle ground for them, somewhere between her confident blonde persona and her original brunette self. After he leaves her office, she surprises him on the elevator, showing him a bright red hair style. She has found the middle ground and wants to be with him. They elope to Las Vegas, inspiring Vikki and Peter to also get married.

The end credits show Barbara and Catcher's marriage has resulted in a new book aimed at ending the battle of the sexes. The pair sing "Here's to Love".

####Drinking Buddies####
Kate and Luke are co-workers at Chicago craft brewery Revolution Brewing, spending their days drinking and goofing off. Seemingly perfect for each other, they are both in relationships with other people. Kate is with Chris, and Luke with Jill. Jill is a nice, practical girl, and Chris an introvert. Jill wants to get married, which Luke promises to talk about soon.

One day, Luke and Kate are drinking with co-workers, and Jill and Chris also show up. Chris invites the other couple to join him and Kate on a trip to his cottage. On a hike on the trip, Jill and Chris kiss.

Luke and Kate spend the whole trip drinking and staying up late together, and have a bonfire. Kate dares Luke to go skinny dipping, stripping and running into the lake.

When the couples return home, Chris realizes his and Kate's differences and breaks up with her. Kate insists the whole brewery crew go out the next evening for drinks to celebrate her 'singleness'. That night she ends up sleeping with co-worker, Dave. When Luke hears, he is angry at them both, spending the whole day snapping at them, but later apologizes.

Jill decides to go away for a week with some college friends. During this trip, Luke and Kate go out for dinner and fall asleep together on the couch. He helps her pack up her old apartment and move the next day. At the end of the day, he falls asleep on the bed. Kate joins him.

The next morning, Luke and Kate keep moving, planning to have a celebratory dinner when they are done. He cuts his hand badly while helping move a couch, and she is squeamish about the blood and unhelpful. An impatient driver, blocked by the moving van, starts a fight with Luke. Kate calls Dave and another co-worker to help finish the move. Dave invites Kate out for drinks, and she agrees instead of dining with Luke. He is annoyed and they argue.

Returning home, Luke finds Jill has come home early, and she is crying. She sees his injuries and while cleaning him up, confesses to kissing Chris while at the cottage. She tells him how guilty she feels about it, and that she really loves him and wants to marry him. Luke forgives Jill and lets her know that he still loves her and wants to marry her too. The next day at work Kate and Luke awkwardly interact and then eventually sit together at lunch. They offer one another bits of their lunch, Kate refusing the banana and he tosses it, their way of saying they will remain friends. They smile and share a beer.

####Drive Me Crazy####
Nicole and Chase have lived next door to each other their whole lives and were childhood best friends, until junior high school when Nicole joined the popular crowd while Chase began to rebel and pull pranks around school, constantly landing him in detention. During their senior year, Nicole devotes much of her time and energy into planning their high school's centennial dance, which she expects to go to with a basketball player named Brad but he falls in love with a cheerleader from a rival school and asks her to the dance instead of Nicole.  Chase is dating Dulcie, though she ultimately leaves him for a socially conscious college student. One night, Nicole calls Chase and asks him to the dance, suggesting that they pretend to date to make Brad and Dulcie jealous, he agrees to her scheme and they both agree to have an easy out clause in the relationship, so it can end at any time with no hard feelings.

Nicole gives Chase a makeover so that he fits in better with her friend group and takes him to events where he becomes friends with the popular kids, all while insisting to his old friends, Dave and Ray, that the whole thing is just a scam and that he hasn't really changed, though it's clear to them that he has.  While Chase does all the activities Nicole asks him to with little resistance, he eventually points out that everything they've done is for her benefit.  Nicole agrees to do whatever he wants and they go to a club he used to frequent with Dulcie, where Nicole has a good time and begins bonding with his friends. Chase has a run in with Dulcie and her new boyfriend, Nicole comes to his aid and kisses him, which makes Dulcie jealous. Nicole and Chase begin to fall in love but don't admit their feelings, to each other or themselves, and continue their ruse.  Nicole's vindictive best friend, Alicia, seduces Chase at a party, making sure Nicole would see them together, leaving Nicole heartbroken. Chase calls Dave to pick him up, since he is too drunk to drive, and angers Dave when he says that "everyone" was at the party, which Dave says is not true because he and Ray were not there, reminding him they used to be his friends. Meanwhile, Brad and his girlfriend break up and Dulcie also ends things with her new boyfriend. Chase attempts to talk to Nicole about what happened with Alicia but she rebuffs him, reminding him of the easy out clause, she also ignores his calls. Chase eventually makes up with his friends and gets back together with Dulcie. Brad finally asks Nicole to the dance. Despite getting what they both wanted from the beginning, Chase is unhappy with Dulcie and Nicole rejects Brad.

The night of the dance, with no date, Nicole calls Ray, who had offered to take her earlier, and goes to the dance with him.  While Chase is out with Dulcie, she realizes he doesn't want to be there, or be with her.  Ray and Nicole have fun together at the dance, but he leaves when Chase arrives, knowing that despite their claims that their relationship was never real, Chase is the one she wants to be with.  Chase asks Nicole to dance, she asks who they're trying to make jealous now, he tells her everyone.

In the final scene, Chase and Nicole come home early the next morning and Nicole walks Chase to his door, they kiss then find her mother with his father.  Their parents tell them that they're also in a relationship and are going to move in together. Nicole suggests she and Chase discuss the new living arrangements in the treehouse they used to play in as children.  They hold hands as they walk into Nicole's backyard, then hug and kiss under the treehouse.

####The Duchess and the Dirtwater Fox####
In 1882 San Francisco, popular dance hall girl Amanda Quaid learns that Mormon millionaire Josiah Widdicombe is seeking a well-bred governess for his children. Looking for an easier life, Amanda needs $65 to buy clothes for the interview. She accepts an invitation from gambler Charlie "Dirtwater Fox" Malloy to join him in his hotel room, where she discovers he is carrying a satchel full of stolen money that he acquired by double-crossing the Bloodworth gang in a bank robbery. Drugging Charlie and stealing the satchel, she buys a new outfit and successfully interviews with Widdicombe as the "Duchess of Swansbury."

When Charlie finds the money gone, he heads east on his horse Blackjack and catches up to the stagecoach carrying Amanda to Salt Lake City, Utah. Charlie recognizes Amanda and makes her agree to give him a portion of her salary in exchange for keeping her real identity a secret. On their trip, they encounter snakes, rapids, horseback pursuits through towns, a Jewish wedding, and the Bloodworth gang who capture them and take back the money. The pair are tied down with stakes and left to die, but manage to escape when Amanda uses a pair of lorgnette spectacles to burn through the ropes.

The couple almost make it to Salt Lake City, but Charlie is not willing to give up the money and hatches a plan to get it back from the Bloodworth gang. He sets booby traps at the gang's ranch and starts a fire in the barn, retrieving the loot in the process. In the ensuing chase and gunfight, the gang members are killed but Charlie is wounded. Charlie believes he is dying, but Amanda calls him lazy, grabs the satchel and walks toward Salt Lake City; Charlie and Blackjack get to their feet and follow.

####Duchess of Idaho####
Christine Riverton Duncan (Esther Williams) attempts to play matchmaker for her lovelorn friend Ellen (Paula Raymond) by pursuing Douglas J. Morrissen, Jr. (John Lund), the man Ellen loves, all the way to Idaho. There, Christine decides to play a joke on Douglas. After boarding his train to Sun Valley, Christine wins the man's affections and then shocks him with hints that she expects a commitment. Once she's in Sun Valley, however, things become problematic when Christine falls in love with hotel bandleader Dick Layne (Van Johnson). During her time in Sun Valley, Christine wins the title of "Duchess of Idaho" in a dance contest.

####Duplicity####
Five years ago. Ray Koval, an MI6 agent, meets Claire Stenwick, a CIA officer, at a party in Dubai. He is unaware of her identity and attempts to seduce her. Claire drugs him and steals classified documents from him.

Three years later in Rome, Ray and Claire meet for the first time since Dubai and spend several days together at a posh hotel. They imagine leaving their government jobs for work in an intensely competitive area in the private sector. They contemplate using their skills in intelligence to enrich themselves. After exploring possibilities over several months, including companies vying for the market in double-crust pizza, they settle on cosmetics and personal hygiene. How they will turn their positions to their advantage is unclear even to them, but they will be ready when the opportunity presents itself.

Claire accepts a job in counter-intelligence at Burkett & Randle. After more than a year, Ray takes a position in intelligence at Equikrom, where he will act as the handler and Claire as one of his agents.

Aware that Ray's new employer will be spying on him to assess his loyalty, he and Claire first practise how they will pretend to be meeting in New York for the first time since Dubai, reprising much of the dialogue of their actual encounter in Rome. They are unaware that Claire's employers at Burkett & Randle are spying on her and overhear this rehearsal, which blows her cover. Burkett & Randle's CEO Howard Tully decides to keep Claire in her job, even though she is a mole, and to manipulate her in his rivalry with Equikrom.

Claire and Ray, working as mole and handler, reprise the dialogue yet again and, as they had anticipated, Ray's employer is listening in and is persuaded that Ray is loyal.

Throughout the weeks that follow, Claire and Ray remain wary of one another. Both are experienced in double-dealing and despite their romantic connection and plans to escape with new identities once this operation is complete, neither is entirely free of the other's suspicion.

Tully makes a speech to his intelligence team, including Claire, that paints his company as the innovator defending itself from duplicity and theft. He underscores how the unannounced new product makes vigilance even more urgent. He and others in his organization plant information that they know she and the intelligence team at Equikrom will steal as they try to understand what that "major development" might be.

Claire provides a copy of this speech to Equikrom CEO Dick Garsik, who plots to steal whatever Burkett & Randle has developed. His team, including Ray, devote themselves to stealing information from Burkett & Randle's offices, in the course of which Ray seduces one of their travel office employees and he and several others visit a casino in the Bahamas.

Thanks to information from Ray, Claire is able to appear a hero to her employers, catching Equikrom's spying activities after the fact or thwarting them in some measure in the Bahamas. Tully at Burkett & Randle pretends to be impressed, thanks Claire for successfully defending the company's new product, and he reveals to her that it is a cure for baldness. She informs Garsik at Equikrom, who leaves for a shareholders meeting in Las Vegas expecting she will obtain the chemical formula and he will announce the new development to his shareholders before Burkett & Randle goes public with the information.

Excitement builds as the Equikrom team, using Claire as their principal source inside their rival's offices, succeed in acquiring a copy of the formula. Claire and Ray meet at the Zürich Airport, each with a copy of the formula that they plan to sell to a Swiss company for $35 million. At the same time, Garsik tells his shareholders that they are in the final stages of testing a product that cures baldness. The formula, the Swiss announce to Ray and Claire, is not what they think, just a harmless lotion. They in turn are disappointed, but impressed by how completely they were manipulated. They have only each other now, and a thank you bottle of champagne from Tully.

####Eadie Was a Lady####
Eadie Allen is a student at Glen Moor College and the niece of a wealthy Boston socialite (Aunt Priscilla) in Back Bay. She has secretly taken a new job as a dancer in a seedy burlesque house where her talents are eventually recognized and she is given larger roles on the stage show by the manager, Tommy Foley. At the same time, Eadie is preparing a dance number for the college's annual Greek festival. All of these time conflicts cause her grades to slip, so she pressures Pamela Parker, a classmate, into doing her schoolwork for her.  A series of hijinks where Eadie's double life is almost discovered by the dean of the college (Dean Flint) leads her to hand Tommy her resignation from the burlesque bar.
Tommy convinces Eadie to perform one last time at a hotel. Catching wind of this, Eadie's jealous and jilted former co-dancer (Rose Allure) arranges for the police to raid the performance. The raid leads to both Eadie and Dean Flint being implicated in participation with the lewd event, and this almost has them expelled from their respective positions in the college. Rose confesses to Tommy that she set up the raid, and so Tommy disguises himself as the head of the Athens Art Theater, "Professor Nozoros." He uses this pretense to defend both the dean and Eadie to the board of director of Glen Moor, by saying that they were at the burlesque performance to perform research for the Greek festival. The ruse works, and Eadie and Dean Flint are exonerated.

####Earth Girls Are Easy####
In the San Fernando Valley, Valerie Gail works as a manicurist at the Curl Up & Dye salon. Dissatisfied with the lack of sexual interest from her fiancé, Dr. Ted Gallagher, she receives a makeover from her friend and the salon manager, Candy Pink. That night, Valerie sets out to seduce Ted, but instead, he arrives home with a nurse. Heartbroken and angry, Valerie kicks him out and destroys his belongings.

Meanwhile, three furry aliens—Mac, Zeebo, and Wiploc—from the planet Jhazalla are traveling in a spaceship. It has been a long time since they have had female companionship, and they receive a broadcast showing human females. They are titillated by these "hairless", shapely creatures. A fight between Zeebo and Wiploc causes the spaceship to plummet toward Earth, and they crash land into Valerie's swimming pool while she sunbathes. Valerie is frightened at first, but then she invites the aliens into her home. She calls her surf bum friend Woody to come over and drain the pool so the aliens can repair their ship. Despite a language barrier, the aliens prove to be quick learners and absorb American pop culture and language by watching television.

Ted tries to call Valerie and leaves a message informing her that he will return home later that night. Fearing Ted's reaction, Valerie takes Mac, Zeebo, and Wiploc to the salon. Although initially scared, Candy agrees to help the aliens blend into their surroundings. After having their fur shaved off, the aliens turn out to be human-looking and attractive. The group decides to go out and party at a local nightclub, where the aliens' looks, athleticism, and incredibly long tongues soon catch the eyes of every woman in the place. Valerie and Mac begin to fall for each other.

Ted arrives home and, finding Valerie missing, calls the police. She soon arrives with the aliens, claiming she won an MTV contest to spend the weekend with a rock band. Ted angrily demand that the aliens leave, but when two police officers arrive, Valerie tells them that Ted is attacking her guests. As the officers escort Ted away, he calls off the wedding. Despondent, Valerie retreats to her bedroom and Mac goes in to console her. They discover that they are anatomically compatible and have sex.

The next day, the pool is fully drained, and Zeebo and Wiploc are working on their ship when Woody stops by and offers to take them to the beach. They agree, and after accidentally holding up a convenience store, Zeebo and Wiploc are soon driving down a freeway the wrong way, in reverse, with the police in pursuit. Mac discovers his crew mates are in trouble and goes to help, but gets arrested along with Woody in a case of mistaken identity. Valerie smashes the police vehicle to get arrested, too, so she can go with Mac.

The police pursuit ends in a crash, and Zeebo and Wiploc are taken to the emergency room. There, they are examined by Ted, who discovers they have two hearts. While he is envisioning achieving fame and fortune from his discovery, Valerie and Mac elude the police and enter the emergency room disguised as a doctor and a nurse; they manage to convince Ted he is delusional. They then escape back to Valerie's house where work continues on the space ship. Meanwhile, Valerie and Ted reconcile and plan to elope to Las Vegas immediately.

Mac is heartbroken and prepares the ship for takeoff. Valerie goes to say goodbye to her alien friends, followed by Ted, who discovers the ship. While struggling to keep him from calling the authorities, Valerie comes to the realization that Mac is the one she truly loves. She boards the spaceship and they take off.

####East Side Story####
"East Side Story" is the story of Diego (René Alvarado), a young, closeted Latino, who helps his grandmother (Irene DeBari) run the family restaurant while carrying on a relationship with equally closeted Pablo (David Berón).

Diego has long felt trapped by the conservative culture of East LA and plans to move away and open an upscale restaurant, hopefully with his lover, but Pablo views their relationship very differently - a point driven home when he begins dating Diego's Aunt Bianca (Gladise Jimenez). At the same time, Wesley and his boyfriend move in, gentrifying the neighborhood. The attraction between Wesley and Diego is immediate and electric, forcing both men to reexamine their state of affairs.

####Easy####
Jamie Harris is a neurotic, bright 25 year-old with a career naming peculiar consumer products. Though she gives them their identities, she's rather confused about her own. After dating a string of jerks, she's bewildered about whom to trust or how to find true intimacy. When two seemingly honorable men orbit around her, Jamie must confront what she is most afraid of.

####Easy Living####
J.B. Ball, the third richest banker in America, has a fight with his son John Jr. over breakfast. It ends with the son leaving, determined to prove that he can make his own way. Ball becomes infuriated after learning that his wife Jenny bought a $58,000 sable fur coat, and he decides it has to be returned. After finding many fur coats in her closet, Ball grabs the coat, Jenny takes it from him, and a chase takes them to the roof of their New York City penthouse. He throws it over the edge.

It lands on Mary Smith while she is riding to work on a double-decker bus. When she tries to return it, he tells her to keep it, without telling her how costly it is. He also buys her an expensive new hat to replace the one damaged in the incident, causing Van Buren, the owner of the shop, to mistake her for Ball's mistress. Van Buren loses no time in spreading the word. When Mary shows up for work, her straitlaced boss suspects her of behaving improperly to get a coat she obviously cannot afford and fires her to protect the reputation of the "Boy's Constant Companion", the magazine he publishes.

Mary is nearly penniless, but she begins receiving offers from people eager to cash in on her notoriety. Hotel owner Mr. Louis Louis installs her in a luxury suite, hoping that this will deter Ball from foreclosing on his failing establishment. When Mary goes to an automat for a meal, she meets John Jr., who is working there anonymously. However, he is fired for giving Mary free food and starting a food fight. When Mary finds out he has no place to stay, she invites him to share her enormous suite while he looks for a new job. They quickly fall in love. Meanwhile, J.B.'s wife goes to Florida, he moves into the Hotel Louis, and reports of a nonexistent affair make their way into gossip columns. The hotel instantly becomes popular with the elite, and various luxury firms begin giving Mary jewelry, clothes, and a sixteen-cylinder car.

Mary's supposed connection to J.B. has disastrous consequences for the stock market. Stockbroker E.F. Hulgar asks her for inside information about steel from Mr. Ball. The only Ball the confused Mary knows is John Jr., so she consults him. He jokingly tells her it is going down, and she passes this along to Hulgar. As a result, everybody begins selling just as J.B. starts buying, causing his firm to teeter on the brink of bankruptcy. Jenny returns from Florida. When Mary, John, and J.B. finally get together and figure out what is going on, John comes up with a bright solution: Mary tells Hulgar that J.B. has cornered the market on steel. Prices shoot up, rescuing the beleaguered financier. The delighted J.B. gives his son a job, and John Jr. asks Mary to be his wife.

####Easy to Love####
When a woman finds out her husband is having an affair, she sets out to get even.

####Easy to Love####
Ray Lloyd runs a successful Cypress Gardens water show, but star attraction Julie Hallerton is overworked and unappreciated by Ray who doesn't know she is in love with him. She fibs about pretending to marry her aquatic partner Hank (John Bromfield) to try make Ray jealous but is persuaded by Ray to accompany him to New York instead.

Julie is hired to pose for a magazine lipstick ad, when handsome singer Barry Gordon takes the place of a male model and kisses her instead. Barry offers to introduce Julie to a promoter who agrees to hire her for a New York water show he produces. Moreover, he will pay her more and treat her better than does Ray.

When they return to Florida, a jealous Hank tells off Ray for not realizing how Julie truly feels about him. Her roommate Nancy whacks her accidentally with a water ski, knocking Julie cold. All three men in her life rush to her side.

By the end, Ray finally realizes he is in love with Julie and they embrace and kiss. Barry quickly turns his attention to another bathing beauty while Nancy reveals a romantic interest in Hank.

####Eating Out####
After getting dumped by his girlfriend Tiffani von der Sloot (Rebekah Kochan), University of Arizona student Caleb Peterson (Scott Lunsford) commiserates with his roommate Kyle (Jim Verraros), who notes that while he has trouble getting the men he wants, he could get any woman because he is gay. Later at a party, Gwen Anderson (Emily Stiles) dumps her boyfriend after he comes out to her. Caleb sees her and becomes infatuated and meets Marc Everhard (Ryan Carnes), with whom Kyle is infatuated. Marc, meanwhile, sees Caleb and is instantly attracted. Kyle comes up with a crazy scheme. He tells Gwen that Caleb is gay so she'll set him up with Marc. Kyle figures that Caleb can use Marc to get to Gwen, while Kyle uses Caleb to get to Marc. Also, Tiffani lives next door to Gwen and Marc so seeing Caleb date Marc would make her crazy.

Caleb and Marc go out on a date then go back to Marc's place to watch a movie. Marc tries to put the moves on Caleb, who is unresponsive. Suddenly Gwen, who is stuck at a friend's house and bored, calls. She talks to Caleb, relaxing and seducing him verbally while Marc takes advantage by performing oral sex on him. Gwen hangs up to come home and Marc masturbates next to Caleb. Caleb, feeling confused and insecure, leaves. He passes Gwen on her way home and she seduces him again, this time physically. They have sex in his convertible. Caleb goes home and goes to bed.

The next morning, Marc calls Caleb and leaves a message. Kyle overhears it and realizes that Marc and Caleb had sex. As Kyle storms into his room, Marc calls back. After the call Caleb goes to Kyle and tells him he has invited Gwen and Marc to dinner to clear everything up. He also says that he knows Kyle has feelings for him and that if he were gay he would love him back, and the two share a small kiss. Gwen and Marc come over for dinner and Caleb is chagrined to see that Kyle has invited Caleb's family as well. Kyle convinces Gwen to "pretend" to be Caleb's date and Marc to "pretend" to be his. Dinner is going well, if a little awkwardly, until Tiffani inexplicably crashes the party. Gwen takes it upon herself to out Caleb to his parents (Murph Michaels and Mattie van der Voort). His parents take it quite well and everyone ends up in a bizarre group hug.

After Caleb's family and Tiffani leave, Gwen verbally attacks Kyle, thinking he is trying to steal Marc from Caleb. She makes it clear that "someone like Marc" would never go out with "someone like him." Caleb convinces Marc to talk to Kyle and Gwen figures out the entire scheme, which she thinks is the sweetest thing anyone has ever done for her in light of the lengths to which Caleb went to sleep with her. Marc goes to talk to Kyle and tells Kyle that he was into him all along, having feigned disinterest this whole time. They finally kiss.

In a post-credits scene, Marc and Kyle are shown shirtless, making out in his bed; it is implied they are about to have sex.

####Eating Out 2: Sloppy Seconds####
Kyle (Jim Verraros) breaks up with Marc (Brett Chukerman), his love interest from the first movie, accusing him of flirting with hotter men. Kyle, Tiffani (Rebekah Kochan) and Gwen, friends from the first film, all become attracted to Troy (Marco Dapper), a chiseled farm boy from Troy, Illinois, who poses nude for their art class. Troy befriends and confides in them that he has slept with both women and men, but is reluctant to embrace any gay feelings. Kyle and the girls devise a scheme in which Kyle pretends to be an ex-gay who is dating Tiffani, to overcome Troy's inhibitions and get him to sleep with the both of them.

While Kyle and Troy start attending meetings with the campus ex-gay ministry, Marc notices Kyle becoming close with Troy and decides to try to seduce Troy himself. Troy eventually succumbs to Marc's advances during Gwen's homoerotic photo shoot, and the two fool around, but Marc cannot go through with it because he still has feelings for Kyle. Troy then overhears Gwen and Marc talking about the entire scheme.

Wanting to get back at the schemers, Troy visits Tiffani and Kyle because supposedly they have an "arrangement" that lets Kyle sleep with men. They attempt a threesome, but Troy gets his revenge by goading them into performing an uncomfortable act of cunnilingus first. Gwen and Marc storm into Kyle's house after witnessing the debacle, and Troy scolds the group for being so sex-crazed. Troy ultimately concludes that he is bisexual (to which everyone shouts out, "There's no such thing!", although they later accept it) and Kyle admits he was wrong to leave Marc.

The five then start scheming to out Jacob (Scott Vickaryous), the closeted leader of the ex-gay ministry, to his mother by tricking him to have sex with Octavio, another member of the ministry, in a portable toilet on wheels. Jacob finally comes out to his mother (after he inadvertently ejaculates on her coat as his sexuality is revealed), and flees with Octavio. Troy takes a liking to Tiffani and they start a relationship.

In the end, Marc and Kyle get back together after confessing their feelings to each other and start kissing. Gwen starts to date a girl experimentally.

####Eating Out: All You Can Eat####
After the funeral of Marc and Kyle (who had been giving one another oral sex in the car until Celine Dion's tour bus collided with theirs while going the wrong way), Kyle's mom Helen (Mink Stole) takes in her nephew, geeky but cute Casey (Daniel Skelton), and gives his number to Tiffani von der Sloot (Rebekah Kochan), Kyle's infamous slutty fag hag friend, who hires him at her salon Nail Me. They venture to the local LGBT center so Casey can volunteer for an upcoming event, and Casey meets Zack (Chris Salvatore), a gorgeous frequent visitor. So Tiffani and Casey set up a phony online profile using the image of Tiffani's buff ex, Ryan... which works fine until the real Ryan (Michael E.R. Walker) shows up. Ryan pretends to be gay to aggravate Tiffani, so he accepts Zack's date, but later bails. Zack finds Casey to talk to, but then finds out that Casey and Ryan had both lied to him. Ryan and Tiffani both wanted to help get Casey and Zack together, so they shut the door and lock them in a room together to talk through it. But the problem was not getting solved, so Ryan, although he is straight, decides to strip and get into a threesome to get Casey and Zack together. Only through some fancy footwork, advice from Aunt Helen and mentor Harry (Leslie Jordan), and a daring sexual escapade can Casey figure out how to set things right and perhaps even find the love he's been seeking.

####Eating Out: Drama Camp####
Filmmaker Jason (Garikayi Mutambirwa) is shooting a film featuring Zack (Chris Salvatore). Upon learning of a drama camp owned by Dick Dickey (Drew Droege), the pair apply along with Zack's boyfriend Casey (Daniel Skelton). Their applications are all successful and the group travel to the drama camp. At camp they meet Benji (Aaron Milo), an attractive camper who insists that he is not gay; Penny (Lilach Mendelovich), a sweet camp help who is an aspiring actress; Lily (Harmony Santana), a headstrong trans woman; and Genieveve (Marikah Cunningham), a rich and untalented actress who likes Benji. At orientation Dick enforces a no-sex rule at the camp—much due to Dick himself not having had sex for seven and a half years.

Jason confronts Benji about his sexuality who admits he is gay, but is lying due to his attraction to Zack despite him being in a relationship with Casey. Benji and Zack continue to bond, including Zack choosing to be partners with Benji instead of Casey during a class taught by Tiffani (Rebekah Kochan), resulting in Zack and Casey beginning to drift from one another. Casey becomes suspicious of Benji's sexuality when he refuses to kiss Genevieve in a class, and so enlists the help of Penny to help. The pair stumble upon Conor (Steven Daigle) about to engage in sex with another camper and blackmail him into a trap to find if Benji is gay, but this fails.

Meanwhile, Jason begins to produce a rendition of "The Taming of the Shrew". He casts Zack and Benji in the leading roles, in which they share a kiss, and Lilly in the lead female role. Lilly, initially happy, gets mixed messages about Jason's personal feelings for her. As rehearsals begin, Casey becomes increasingly dissatisfied with his relationship with Zack, leading to Penny secretly rubbing Zack with poison oak so he can not rehearse. Casey stands in for Zack, and is shocked to find Benji becomes sexually aroused during their kiss. At first worried, Casey decides he and Zack are not meant to be together and the pair agree to break up, with Casey encouraging Zack to ask out Benji. However, Benji reveals to Zack he had been lying about his sexuality from the beginning, upsetting Zack.

As the night of the show arrives, the group do their final rehearsals. Lilly becomes enraged with Jason for not telling her if he likes her and angrily leaves. Jason chases after her before Zack and Benji rehearse their kissing scene. This quickly leads to the pair undressing one another with the encouragement of Casey who is attempting to get the right chemistry between the actors for the show. Dick discovers Zack and Benji and mistakes them for having sex and expels them from the camp. Realizing it is his fault, Casey asks Penny for help. They enlist the help of Conor once more who has sex with Dick in his office, loud enough for the whole camp to hear. After this Dick accepts sex in the camp and allows Zack and Benji to perform.

During the debut performance, Lilly breaks character and forces Jason to tell her if she likes him. He eventually admits he does and the pair make out on stage. Zack and Benji make up and start a relationship before beginning to make out too. Off stage Casey is happy to see Zack and Benji together, before he bumps into fellow camper Beau (Ronnie Kroell) who offers to be Casey's rebound. Casey agrees and all three pairs stumble on stage together before the curtain closes on the show. Dick awards the group with the best show and the prize of a vacation. Shortly after the new couples leave the drama camp.

####Eating Out: The Open Weekend####
Zack (Chris Salvatore) and his new boyfriend Benji (Aaron Milo) are setting off to vacation at an all-male resort in Palm Springs, California, with their friend Lily (Harmony Santana). In light of the veritable smorgasbord of available men that are sure to be awaiting their arrival, Benji has proposed that he and Zack open up their relationship, just for the weekend. He is not ready to limit himself sexually and explains that this will be a good way for them to explore together. Zack is less than thrilled with the idea, but he's eager to keep Benji happy and, after all, he likes sex too. At the same time, Zack's ex, Casey (Daniel Skelton), is making his way to the same resort with his hag-in-training, Penny (Lilach Mendelovich). Knowing that Zack will be there with his new boyfriend, Casey immediately goes into panic mode, recruiting his new friend, Peter (Michael Vara), to be his pretend boyfriend for the weekend, proving to Zack that he has had no trouble moving on from their relationship. However, it is not long before all plans go awry, and Benji starts making eyes at Peter, while Zack realizes he might not be as over Casey as he'd thought. With the gay boys otherwise engaged, Lily and Penny are soon locked in combat for the attention of Luis, the resort's sexy bartender, who also happens to be the sole straight man in sight.

####ECupid####
Marshall Thomas (Houston Rhines), an advertising designer, and his partner of seven years, cafe owner Gabe Horton (Noah Schuffman), who live in Los Angeles, California, are in a rut. Gabe seems too busy for intimacy and Marshall is feeling the pressure of a frustrating dead-end job. Marshall discovers a smart phone application called eCupid and agrees to install it without reading the terms of agreement (despite multiple warnings.) The application (voiced by Morgan Fairchild) proceeds to take over Marshall's phone and computer, and by proxy his life. Gabe finds out and the two split. eCupid begins arranging various encounters and situations designed to help Marshall find the things he thinks he wants: the recapturing of his youth via fun, romance and freedom.

####The Egg and I####
The film tells the story of a young married couple who become chicken farmers. Betty follows her husband Bob to the countryside where his dream is to be a successful chicken farmer. The problem is, their home is old and needs to be repaired and the baby chicks need constant care. When a rich single woman with a new house and new farm equipment flirts with Bob, Betty questions their decision to move to the farm in the first place. In the end, she finds out that Bob was trying to buy the new house for Betty as a surprise.

####Eight Days a Week####
Peter (Joshua Schaefer) is infatuated with his childhood friend and next-door neighbor Erica (Keri Russell). Based on advice from his grandfather, Peter decides to camp on Erica's lawn until she realizes that she loves him. During his summer-long wait, he frequently comments on their neighborhood.

####Ella Enchanted####
In the kingdom of Lamia, misguided fairy godmother Lucinda Perriweather bestows the “gift” of obedience on newborn Ella of Frell, causing her to instantly obey any command she is given. Some years later, on her deathbed, Ella's mother warns her daughter not to tell anyone about the gift, for fear that someone might use it to exploit Ella.

Years later, Ella's father Sir Peter marries wealthy socialite, Dame Olga, who dislikes Ella and treats her poorly. Ella meets Prince "Char" Charmont, who invites her to his coronation ball. Jealous, Olga’s daughters Hattie and Olive find out about Ella’s obedience and use it to humiliate her. Ella resolves to find Lucinda to undo her gift. Mandy, the household fairy, lends Ella her boyfriend, Benny, whom she accidentally transformed into a magic book. Ella learns that Lucinda is in Giantville and leaves to find her.

On her journey, Ella rescues Slannen, an elf who wants to be a lawyer rather than be forced to be an entertainer. They are captured by ogres but are rescued by Char. He joins them, intending to avenge the death of his father, and Ella opens his eyes to the cruelty of the laws oppressing elves and giants enacted by Char’s paternal uncle, the Regent Sir Edgar.

Ella and Char begin to fall in love. Edgar learns of Ella's gift from her stepsisters. Knowing his nephew is in love with her, Edgar orders Ella to murder Char at midnight and to keep this plan secret. Edgar reveals that he murdered Char's father, and the prince’s death will make Edgar king. Ella writes Char a letter, saying she must leave but cannot explain why. She has Slannen chain her to a tree, hoping to wait out Edgar's command, while Slannen recruits more elves and giants to protect Char.

Lucinda appears and Ella begs her to take back her gift. Offended, Lucinda insists that Ella remove the gift herself and unchains her. Forced back to the castle, Ella stumbles into the ball. Char whisks her away to a secret hall of mirrors, where he proposes. As Ella is about to stab Char, she sees her reflection and commands herself to no longer be obedient, permanently freeing herself from the gift. Char notices the dagger, and Edgar has Ella arrested before she can explain herself.

Benny reveals Ella is in the dungeon, and Slannen sneaks into the castle along with a band of elves, giants, and ogres, and frees her. Benny shows that Edgar has poisoned Char's crown, intending to kill him at the coronation. Ella and the others crash the ceremony and a brawl ensues. In the scuffle, Mandy manages to turn Benny human again. As Char and Ella fight off the guards, she confesses her love for him and reveals Edgar's plot. Edgar's talking snake, Heston, almost fatally bites Char, which Char takes as evidence of his uncle's guilt. Edgar attempts to proclaim himself king, but foolishly puts on the poisoned crown and collapses.

Soon after, Char and Ella are married, with Areida as Ella's maid of honor. Char toasts to a new era of equality among all citizens of the kingdom. Edgar is revealed to still be alive, but disabled. The cast performs a final dance number of "Don't Go Breaking My Heart" before the newlyweds ride off on their honeymoon.

####Emma####
In early 19th-century England, Emma Woodhouse is a congenial yet naïve young woman. After her governess Miss Taylor marries Mr. Weston, Emma proudly takes credit for bringing the couple together and now considers herself a matchmaker within her small community. Her father and an old family friend, George Knightley, whose brother is married to Emma's sister, dispute her claim and discourage any further matchmaking attempts. Ignoring their warnings, she schemes to match Mr. Elton, the village minister, with her friend, Harriet Smith, a rather unsophisticated young woman on the verges of society.

Robert Martin, a respectable local farmer, proposes to Harriet, who is inclined to accept, though Emma, believing Harriet can have better prospects, urges her to refuse him. Meanwhile, Mr. Elton has shown a desire for Emma by excessively admiring a portrait she drew of Harriet and otherwise engaging with her to secure Emma's favor. Emma misinterprets his actions as an attraction to Harriet. However, when Mr. Elton and Emma are alone, he fervently declares his love for Emma, who strongly rejects his attention. Soon after, he marries another woman, a vain socialite who competes with Emma for status in the community.

Over the next few months, various gatherings show who loves whom among Emma's friends. Emma is briefly attracted to the charming and gallant Frank Churchill, Mr. Weston's son, who is visiting from London, though Emma soon decides to match him with Harriet. However, Frank is secretly engaged to Jane Fairfax. His aunt, who later dies, would have disapproved of the match and disinherited Frank. He feigned interest in Emma as a deflection. Harriet states she has no interest in Frank, preferring Mr. Knightley, who kindly danced with her at a ball after Mr. Elton snubbed her. Mr Knightley has started to fall in love with Emma.

During a picnic in the countryside, Emma ridicules Miss Bates, deeply hurting her. After, Mr. Knightley angrily scolds Emma for humiliating someone living in lesser social circumstances. Emma later works to make amends with Miss Bates. Mr. Knightley leaves town to visit his brother, and Emma finds herself frequently thinking about him during his absence. She does not realize she loves him until Harriet expresses her feelings for him. When Mr Knightley returns, he and Emma meet and have a conversation that begins awkwardly but ends with him proposing and her gladly accepting. Their engagement upsets Harriet, who avoids Emma, but returns a few weeks later, happily engaged to Mr. Martin, whom she always loved. The film ends with Emma and Mr Knightley's wedding.

####Employee of the Month####
For years, Zack Bradley has been working at the local "Super Club" as a box boy. He lives with his grandmother and spends his free time with co-workers Lon Neilson, Iqbal Raji, and Russell Porpis-Gunders.

Despite his slacker-like ways, Zack is kind-hearted, popular, and supportive. His rival co-worker, Vince Downey, earns Employee of the Month for the 17th time in a row. Vince comes off as charming, but is egotistical and rude towards his co-workers, including his box boy Jorge Mecico, whom he berates constantly in spite of Jorge always showing him loyalty and admiration.

When new cashier Amy Renfro is hired, Zack and Vince fall for her and compete for her affection. Zack learns from Russell that she slept with the Employee of the Month at her last job, so he decides to win the title. Amy has dinner with Vince but is repulsed when he puts the move on her. Oblivious to how Amy feels, he thinks it went well and continues pursuing her. Zack steps up his act and begins going to work on time and working harder, giving Vince competition for the title. He also goes on a date with Amy, which takes place entirely inside Super Club.

Within a few days, with Vince still winning the daily star, Zack realizes getting Employee of the Month is not so easy. With Iqbal's encouragement, Zack finds his groove and, to Vince's horror, wins the star the next day. A war of attrition begins, as Vince tries everything he can to derail Zack's string of stars, even breaking into his house one night to reset the clocks; the sabotage causes him to arrive a minute late the following day, but with Iqbal's help, Zack's attendance card indicates he arrived on time, causing the plan to fail.

Zack takes Iqbal's shift on the day of a softball game against rival chain Maxi-Mart. However, he leaves to play in the game, and Iqbal is fired. Frustrated at Zack's new attitude, his friends tell him he is turning into Vince and feel his attempt at getting the title is a result of trying to have sex with Amy. She overhears and is disgusted at Zack for his true intentions, prompting her to compare him to her last boyfriend, also an Employee of the Month with whom she indeed had sex but could not stand his attitude, which was why she requested a transfer.

At month's end, Zack and Vince are tied. On the day of the tie-breaking competition, Zack quits, gets Iqbal his job back, and tells him he took responsibility for what happened, making a heartfelt apology to Lon, Iqbal, and Russell. Zack tells them he plans to win the competition, not for recognition or to make an impression, but for pride.

When the store manager is about to announce Zack's resignation, Zack, Lon, Iqbal, and Russell show up saying Zack never filed the resignation papers. (Russell bribed the human resources manager with a Butterfinger.) Zack tries to reconcile with Amy, giving a heartfelt apology and telling her that no matter what, he is a better man thanks to her. Despite Vince's protests, the competition for the fastest checkout is held. The Employee of the Month Award will be granted to whoever finishes the task first.

Vince beats Zack only by a few seconds but, during the award ceremony, Semi, the security guard, brings a surveillance video of the competition that shows Vince throwing store products behind his back and onto the conveyor belt without scanning them. The store's assistant manager gets the receipts for the scanned items in the competition, and Vince's is not only way shorter in length, but the total cost is also less than it should be. Semi adds that videos show that Vince has been failing to ring up items all year, which has cost the store thousands of dollars. Vince is fired and Zack ends up winning the competition and rekindling his relationship with Amy.

Six weeks after being fired from Super Club, Vince is on probation, working at Maxi-Mart. Jorge now treats Vince the same as he treated him. However, while they are both sitting in Jorge's new car, when Vince asks for a ride to the bus stop, Jorge agrees. He agrees to drive Vince to the bus stop, but he deliberately moves outside the range of Vince's court-ordered ankle monitor, causing the device to shock him.

####Enchanted####
In the animated fairy tale kingdom of Andalasia, the corrupt and ruthless Queen Narissa plots to protect her claim to the throne, which she will lose once her stepson, Prince Edward, finds his true love and marries. She enlists her loyal servant Nathaniel to keep Edward distracted by hunting trolls. Giselle, a young woman, dreams of meeting a prince and experiencing a "happily ever after". She, her chipmunk friend Pip, and animals from the forest work together to make a homemade statue of her true love. Edward hears Giselle singing and sets off to find her. Nathaniel frees a captured troll to kill Giselle, but Edward rescues her. She and Edward are instantly attracted to each other and plan to be married the following day.

Disguised as an old hag, Narissa intercepts Giselle on her way to the wedding and pushes her into a well, where Giselle is transformed into a live-action version of herself and transported to New York City's Times Square in the real world. A frightened Giselle quickly becomes lost. Meanwhile, Robert, a divorce lawyer, plans to propose to his girlfriend Nancy. Robert and his young daughter Morgan encounter Giselle on their way home, and Robert reluctantly allows Giselle to stay in their apartment at the insistence of Morgan, who believes Giselle is a princess.

Pip and Edward embark on a rescue mission to the real world, where they too are turned into live-action versions of themselves. Pip, now a real chipmunk, is no longer able to speak, and only communicates through squeaks. Narissa sends Nathaniel to follow and impede Edward. Narissa gives Nathaniel three poisoned apples that will put whoever eats one to sleep until the clock strikes twelve, after which they will die. Meanwhile, after Giselle summons insects and vermin to clean Robert's apartment, Nancy arrives to take Morgan to school. She meets Giselle and leaves, assuming Robert was unfaithful. Robert is initially upset, but he spends the day with Giselle, knowing she is vulnerable in the city. Giselle questions Robert about his relationship with Nancy, and helps the pair reconcile by sending Nancy flowers and an invitation to a costume ball at the Woolworth Building.

Edward locates Giselle at Robert's apartment. While Edward is eager to take Giselle home to Andalasia and marry her, she suggests that they should first go on a date and get to know each other better. Giselle promises to return to Andalasia after the ball that night, which Robert and Nancy also attend. Narissa decides to come to the real world and kill Giselle herself after Nathaniel fails twice to poison her. At the ball, Robert and Giselle dance romantically with each other. Giselle and Edward then prepare to depart, but Giselle feels depressed at leaving Robert behind. Narissa appears as the old hag and offers the last poisoned apple to Giselle, promising that it will wipe her memories. Giselle takes a bite and is plunged into a sleep with mere minutes to live.

Narissa tries escaping with Giselle's body but is thwarted by Edward. Nathaniel, seeing that Narissa never cared about him, reveals her plot and apologizes for his previous actions. Robert realizes that true love's kiss is the only force powerful enough to break the apple's curse. Edward's kiss fails to wake Giselle, and so he and Nancy prompt Robert to kiss her instead. When Robert kisses her, she awakens. Infuriated, Narissa transforms into a dragon and takes Robert hostage. Giselle takes Edward's sword and pursues Narissa to the top of the building to rescue Robert. Pip comes to support Giselle and defeats Narissa by causing her to fall to her death on the streets below and explode into dust. Robert almost falls as well, but Giselle catches him, and they share another kiss on the roof.

A happy new life unfolds for everyone, showing Edward and Nancy falling in love and marrying in Andalasia while Nathaniel, who stays in New York, and Pip, who returns to Andalasia, each write autobiographies based on their experiences in the real world. Giselle starts a very popular fashion design business and forms a happy family with Robert and Morgan in New York.

####Enchantment####
Inspired by a staging of William Shakespeare's "Taming of the Shrew", Marion Davies plays Ethel, the spoiled-brat daughter of millionaire Mr. Hoyt (Tom Lewis). Mr. Hoyt decides that a rough-and-tumble he-man might be able to straighten out his daughter. To that end, the millionaire hires Ernest Eddison (Forrest Stanley), the actor playing Petruchio in "Shrew". Ernest talks Ethel into auditioning for an amateur production of Sleeping Beauty, then runs her roughshod during rehearsals. Ethel is on the verge of exploding when Ernest finally wins her over with a lulu of a third-act kiss.

####The Englishman who Went up a Hill but Came down a Mountain####
In 1917, during World War I, two English cartographers, the pompous George Garrad and his junior, Reginald Anson arrive at the fictional Welsh village of Ffynnon Garw to measure its "mountain" &ndash; only to cause outrage when they conclude that it is only a hill because it is slightly short of the required height of Convert|1000|ft|m|0.

The villagers, aided and abetted by wily local,
Morgan the Goat,r|Note01|g=Note|r=This and some other names in the film follow a Welsh naming convention: "Welsh villages used to have so many Joneses that they would commonly distinguish them by adding an occupation to the name:
Jones the Shop, Jones the Steam, Jones the Post etc."r|Cite01|r=Cite web |title=Did Ewe Know? |url=https://ewegottalove.com/did-ewe-know/ |access-date=2023-04-15 |website=ewegottalove wales |language=en-GB The occupation names typically take the form of a one-word shortening.
and the Reverend Mr. Jones, who, after initially opposing the scheme, grasps its symbolism in restoring the community's war-damaged self-esteem, conspire to delay the cartographers' departure while they build an earth mound on top of the hill and make it high enough to be considered a mountain.
The scene is set with Anson and Garrad the cartographers (who are to measure the mountain) arriving at the village, but everyone in town is at church (it being a Sunday). The only exception is Morgan the Goat who manages the local inn and is the only redhead in the village. Most of the men of the town are away at war and the film implies that the women are visiting the inn and having redheaded children. On the first day Anson and Garrad reach the top and do some preliminary measurements and come up with a height of 930 feet. Anson returns and reassures them that they have more accurate measurements to make the next day.

The next day, when they go to the mountain the entire village is milling around the mountain and eagerly anticipating the results. The cartographers after the measurements announce that the more accurate measurements indicate a height of 984 feet which is just 16 feet short of the 1,000 feet needed to qualify the "hill" as a mountain. The townsfolk are crestfallen and the town's minister announces a town hall meeting. In the meeting Morgan the Goat proposes that they raise the mountain by 20 feet and one of the leadership agrees saying that they have seen mountains with permanent structures atop them like tombs.

Morgan, the constable and the village elder return to the cartographers to persuade them to stay while they build a structure on the mountain but Anson the cartographer disagrees and says they have a tight schedule and they will be leaving in the morning.

The next morning, everyone rallies and starts digging earth from their backyards and transporting it to hill to add 20 or so feet to it. The first day they make a mound that is approximately 14 feet high. Meanwhile in town someone has sabotaged the car belonging to the cartographer and the minister, just to be sure, also punctures a tyre. The cartographers have to push the car to the mechanic who does not know anything about the car but deliberately fumbles around and breaks a part and then informs the cartographers that the part will be needed to be brought in from Cardiff.

When the cartographers try to catch a train from the local station, they are misinformed that the trains only carry coal by the station master who is colluding with the townspeople to keep them in the town. Morgan also enlists a local lady to entertain the two Englishmen.

At this point, it starts raining and the mud on the hill starts washing off down from 14 to 10 feet. Morgan declares an emergency and asks the mechanic to remove the tarpaulin covering the car belonging to the cartographers and to take it to the mountain to cover the works under construction. Meanwhile, in town, the two cartographers are entertained by the local lady.

The rain continues all night and all day from Thursday to Sunday. On Sunday, the minister of the church encourages the villagers to finish the work they started. Upon the suggestion of the Englishman Anson, they also cover the mound with sod before the last light. The minister then dies and is buried on the mountain.

After the burial, the townspeople convince Anson to stay the night at the top of the mountain and measure it at the break of dawn because their train leaves at around 8 a.m. Anson stays on the mountain with Betty who offers to keep him company, and they kiss.

When Anson descends from the mountain, he informs the people that the mountain is 1,002 feet high and announces his engagement to Betty. The end of the movie describes the mountain settling down to 997 feet and turning back into a hill from a mountain. The spirit of the Reverend buried on the mountain exhales "a hill" in a groan and all the people rally, in modern day Wales, with buckets and earth to raise the mountain again.

####Enough Said####
Eva, a massage therapist and the divorced mother of a teenage girl, attends a party in Pacific Palisades with her friends, married couple Will and Sarah. There she meets a poet, Marianne, and Will introduces Eva to one of his friends, Albert. After the party, Albert asks Will for Eva's number and, although hesitant since she is not physically attracted to him, Eva agrees to go on a date with Albert, which goes well. Marianne contacts Eva for a massage, and after taking an immediate liking to one another they become friends.

Eva finds herself growing fonder of Albert and they have lunch with his teenage daughter, Tess, who, like Eva's daughter Ellen, is graduating from high school and moving away to attend college. A few days later, Eva goes to her massage appointment with Marianne and realizes that Albert is Marianne's ex-husband after Marianne tells a story about how he manages to pick out onions when scooping salsa — the same story Albert had told Eva, but about guacamole. Tess then arrives at the house and Eva's suspicions are confirmed. Marianne tries to introduce Eva to Tess, but Eva hides behind a tree to avoid the meeting. Eva continues seeing Albert, keeping her friendship with Marianne a secret; likewise, she does not tell Marianne that she is seeing him.

Eva encourages Marianne to voice her complaints about Albert so she can identify potential problems in her relationship with him. At the encouragement of Eva, Sarah and Will invite her and Albert to a dinner party, which ends badly after Eva nitpicks over Albert's faults, which upsets him. At another appointment with Marianne, Eva is exposed when Albert arrives to drop Tess off. He is angry that Eva kept her friendship with Marianne a secret, and breaks up with her.

Eva and her ex-husband take Ellen to the airport for her flight to college. A few months later, on Thanksgiving Day, Eva drives by Albert's home and stops in front of the house on her way to pick up Ellen from the airport. He sees her and she awkwardly waves. He eventually comes outside, to Eva's surprise, and sits with her on the porch while they begin to renew their relationship.

####Escapade####
Set somewhere in Vienna in the 1900s, the film opens with a successful surgeon (Morgan), feeingclarify|date=July 2013 for the affection of his wife (Bruce). As does his brother, a concert conductor (Owen), for his flirtatious girl (Christians). Both women have something in common: they are in love with a philandering painter (Powell). The surgeon's wife contacts the artist and allows herself to be painted while only dressed in furs, with her face covered by a mask. The painting headlines the newspapers, and the entire city wonders who the mysterious masked lady is. The surgeon recognizes his brother's fiancee's  furs in the painting, and is troubled. He is unaware that his own wife has borrowed the fur, though, and feels terribly sorry for his brother.

Together, the brothers decide to confront the artist, but he denies having met either of the men's wife. When the brothers challenge him to a duel if he does not tell them the name of the woman who posed for him, the artist randomly picks the name "Major". In the phone book, it turns out that one lady in Vienna is named Major: Leopoldine (Rainer). She is the companion of a socially prominent countess, and is startled by the claim that she was the model. The painter falls in love with her, but the prior affair with a married woman causes complications.

####Eve's Leaves####
Captain Corbin (Edeson), who operates the tramp cargo ship "Garden of Eden", has raised his daughter Eve (Joy) as a boy. After learning about men after reading some romance novels belonging to the cook Cookie (Harris), she goes ashore in a Chinese port to find her true love and spies American Bob Britton (Boyd), whom she then has kidnapped to augment the ship's crew. Pirate Chang Fang (Long) and his pirates capture the ship seeking passage to his stronghold. With Cookie's help, Eve remakes herself using an outfit made from a curtain and some beads, which draws the interest of both Chang and Bob. In the end, Eve saves the day and she and Bob are married on board by a missionary (Hoyt).

####Eve's Secret####
As described in a film magazine review, the Duke of Poltava meets Eve, the daughter of a cobbler, and, wishing to marry her, sends her to Paris to be educated. She becomes the object of attention and the Duke fights many duels because of his jealousy concerning her. When she meets Pierre, a childhood chum, she dines with him, which incurs the wrath of the Duke. During the duel, the Duke, believing that she loves Pierre, permits himself to be struck. The wound is slight. Eve finds that she loves the Duke greatly, culminating in their marriage.

####Ever Since Eve####
Marge Winton (Marion Davies) is fed up with having to quit job after job to avoid the advances of lecherous bosses. When she goes to the employment agency, she is surprised to discover that she is too beautiful for one position. So she gives herself a makeover, hiding her blond curls under a dark, severe wig, putting on glasses, and wearing a drab, unflattering dress.

The disguise works. Book publisher Abigail Belldon (Louise Fazenda) hires her as a secretary for lazy writer Freddy Matthews (Robert Montgomery). Freddy would rather go out and party with his girlfriend Camille Lansing than start on his novel. Abigail has already sold the film rights, and the deadline for delivering the book to the film studio is fast approaching. She figures a plain secretary will be one less distraction.

Despite his initial displeasure at Marge's appearance, Freddy gives in and accepts her. However, Camille keeps taking up too much of Freddy's time and attention, and Marge begins to fall for him as well. Thus, Marge has plenty of reason to try to sabotage their relationship. When this is discovered, she quits.

A complication arises when Freddy decides to rehire her. He shows up at her apartment unexpectedly and sees her without her disguise, so she has to pretend to be her roommate Sadie (Patsy Kelly). They spend the entire evening and part of the morning getting acquainted.

With the deadline only days away, however, Marge pretends to go out of town for a couple of weeks. The plan backfires. Instead of writing, Freddie goes after her. Camille finds out and follows as well. Marge has no choice but to show up at the hotel, registering first as the plain secretary, then as Sadie, juggling her two personas to keep Freddie in the dark. She finally gets an outline from him for the last few chapters, which she uses to finish the novel on her own.

Since he gave the outline to "Sadie", and she had no opportunity to give it to Marge, Freddie finally realizes that they are one and the same. He decides to marry her anyway.

####Every Man Needs One####
RV park architect David Chase is looking to hire another architect to assist him. Also working for him is sexy secretary Nancy, who he’s sleeping with, and draftsman Walt, who can’t pass the architect licensing exam because he’s extremely insecure. David's mother is badgering him to get married, mentioning Louise, his fiancée from 12 years earlier. The first interview is with highly qualified candidate E.L. Walden, and David is surprised when it turns out to be attractive blonde Elizabeth Lee “Beth” Walden. He brushes her off and she files a complaint with a fair employment commission. When told that the penalty for a judgment against him would be a court order that he hire her for 30 days, he laughingly agrees to hire her for that term.

Beth shows up early the next morning in her truck camper and begins to move her drawing board and supplies into the office. David is outraged by her self-confidence and her outdoorsy attire. Beth gives advice to Nancy that causes her to cut off David’s advances, as well as advice to Walt that settles his nervousness. When Beth criticizes David’s latest design, he’s even more outraged.

David goes drinking with his friend Marty, who advises him that Beth just needs David to “make a real woman out of her.” He drunkenly goes to Beth’s apartment, where she rebuffs him and he finally passes out. After an argument the next day where Beth says he’s insecure, David angrily rides his motorcycle to the job site, but crashes on a back road. He wakes to see that Beth had tracked him down. Driving him back in her camper, she swerves to avoid a sudden obstacle and the truck gets stuck in a ditch. Beth suggests spending the night then walking back to town the next day to call for a tow truck. David doesn’t want to wait and begins walking back himself. He returns 90 minutes later, having gotten lost and walking around until he saw the camper’s light. They get drunk on a bottle of champagne in the camper and sleep together. David is upset when Beth dismisses the night as being without any emotional involvement, using the same speech that David always told Nancy. He feels objectified.

Realizing that he is falling for her, he suggests that they get better acquainted. Over the next weeks, they do fall in love. After they sleep together again, David’s mother calls and says Louise is in town and wants to meet him. Beth insists that David and Louise should get together and even sleep together so they can resolve any feelings between them. When David objects, they argue and Beth says she’s going to Mammoth Mountain with Bob Rasmussen, a “very tall and Nordic” ski instructor.

Louise arrives and she is a marijuana-smoking divorcée. She tells David that she married somebody else because he didn’t pursue her strongly enough. David realizes his foolishness and speeds to Mammoth to get Beth. Checking various hotels, he finds the room Bob is in and finds a wimpy man. He manhandles Bob, who says Beth never went to the room and just went to Mammoth to make “some idiot” jealous, but when David didn’t show up, she became depressed, so Bob put her on a bus back to Los Angeles. David gets back in his Porsche and pursues the bus. Beth is thrilled when he pulls alongside. The bus driver refuses to stop, citing all sorts of crazy threats like hijacking, but eventually relents. Beth gets off and they embrace. Beth laments that she left her luggage on the bus, but David suggests they drive two hours to Nevada and get married instead. Beth accepts.

####Everybody Sing####
Young Judy Bellaire (Judy Garland) has trouble fitting in at school, causing trouble by introducing her jazzy style into music class and being expelled as a result.  Returning home to her dysfunctional and financially challenged family, where her frustrated playwright-father (Reginald Owen),  ditzy actress-mother (Billie Burke), and beautiful elder sister, Sylvia (Lynne Carver) compete for attention along with the funny Russian maid, Olga (Fanny Brice) and the hunky singing cook, Ricky (Allan Jones), who is not-so-secretly in love with Sylvia. Judy foils her father's attempt to ship her off to Europe by escaping from the ship and then trying out for a musical show as a blackface singer, taking advantage of her love of jazz to enchant the show's producer, who hires her and makes her a star of his new show.  Meanwhile, Ricky cuts a record, musically expressing his love for Sylvia.  Nevertheless, Sylvia is forced into engagement with another man.

When the distraught parents discover their younger daughter is appearing in a musical show, Sylvia rejoins her love, who is also appearing in the show.  Finally, all the cast members are reunited, including Olga, who finds her lost love, Boris.  The film's happy ending includes an extravagant stage piece with gorgeously attired chorus girls, happily reunited parents and child, and the happy kiss between Sylvia and Ricky, who is now the producer of a successful musical show.

####Everybody Wants to Be Italian####
Jake Bianski is the owner of a fish market in the North End of Boston, Massachusetts. For the past eight years he actively has pursued his former girlfriend Isabella, despite the fact she is married and has three children.

Anxious to put an end to their boss' obsession with his one-time love, Steve Bottino and Gianluca Tempesti arrange for him to meet veterinarian Marisa Costa at a dance for singles at the local Italian club. On their first date, a deluded Jake confesses he is involved with another woman and suggests he and Marisa become friends rather than lovers.

After years of rejecting Jake's advances, Isabella finally leaves her husband, and she and her children move into Jake's small apartment above his fish store. Before long, her husband has convinced her to return home, and Jake finally admits he and Isabella have no future together. He follows Marisa to Italy, where he discovers she is involved with another man, but once again Jake refuses to accept reality and, determined to win her back, he begins to woo Marisa.

####Everyone Says I Love You####
The emotions of an extended upper-class family in Manhattan are followed in songs at New York, Paris and Venice. Various characters act, interact and sing in each cities. They include young lovers Holden and Skylar, her parents Bob and Steffi, her ex-husband Joe, Joe and Steffi's daughter Djuna, Von, a lady whom Joe meets, and a recently released prison inmate, Charles Ferry, who is inserted between them, leading to their breakup.

####Everything You Want####
Abby Morrison has lived a sheltered life. She has had an imaginary boyfriend named Sy since she was five; it was all because she never had her parents and real friends with her. However, she is an artist with a passion to paint and usually make paintings of Sy and visions what he looks like. Abby agrees to tutor her roommate's cynical cousin Quinn and finds herself attracted to him. Quinn becomes jealous that she has a boyfriend; because he doesn't know about the reality. However, Abby ignores the attraction, in order to focus on Sy. Abby's parents invite Quinn for thanksgiving day where her mother mentions Abby's imaginary friend, which makes Quinn think that she made all of it up as an obstacle for their relationship. He stopped talking and meeting with her, but he gradually became miserable. Abby also realized that she should get rid of Sy and face reality. She asks Sy to leave for good and for the very first time she joins her parents in their weird work (decorating the tombstones they made for themselves). Quinn, after seeking advice from his roommate and cousin, searches for Abby and while looking for her in a club he once took her to, he finds a portrait of himself painted by Abby and notices an image in the background of Abby at the rink. He finds her there and kisses her.

####Everything's Rosie####
Dr. J. Dockweiler Droop (Robert Woolsey) is a carnival charlatan, scamming local shills out of their hard earned money. He adopted Rosie (Anita Louise) when she was three, and has raised her to become a pretty young woman, who is just as good an operator as her adoptive father is. As they pass through a small town, Rosie falls in love with Billy Lowe (John Darrow), and pleads with Dockweiler to leave the carnival life and settle down. Dockweiler agrees, and the two leave the carnival.

To support them, Dockweiler becomes partners with a jewelry store owner, Al Oberdorf (Alfred James), who is on the verge of bankruptcy. Due to Dockweiler's sales skills, he saves the store from failure. He has also been spending his time convincing the gullible townspeople that he is actually a European noblemen. While Rosie is in love with Billy, she finds out that he is engaged to a snobbish socialite, Madeline Van Dorn (Lita Chevret). Heartbroken, when Billy invites her to his birthday, she agrees to go, along with Dockweiler. While at the party, Dockweiler decides to get back at the townspeople who have heartbroken his daughter, and runs a crooked shell game, bilking the locals of large amounts of cash. When Rosie discovers that Billy has true feelings for her, and intends to marry her, she asks Dockweiler to lose back the money he has won. He agrees, but before the evening is out, the Sheriff (Clifford Dempsey) arrives and asks him to leave town for running a dishonest game.

Before they can leave, however, the jewelry store is robbed, and suspicion falls on Dockweiler who is arrested for the theft. He escapes from the jail, and is leaving town with Rosie, when the Sheriff and Billy track them down to let them know that the real jewel thieves have been apprehended. Dockweiler understands that he will never fit in with the local gentry, so, now assured of Rosie's happiness with Billy, bids them adieu and departs.

####Ex-Lady####
Helen Bauer (Bette Davis) is a glamorous, successful, headstrong, and very liberated New York graphic artist with modern ideas about romance. She is involved with Don Peterson (Gene Raymond) but is not prepared to sacrifice her independence by entering into matrimony. The two agree to wed only to pacify Helen's conventional immigrant father Adolphe (Alphonse Ethier), whose Old World views spur him to condemn their affair. They form a business partnership, but financial problems at their advertising agency put a strain on the marriage and Don begins seeing Peggy Smith (Kay Strozzi), one of his married clients. Convinced it was marriage that disrupted their relationship, Helen suggests they live apart but remain lovers. When Don discovers Helen is dating his business rival, playboy Nick Malvyn (Monroe Owsley), he returns to Peggy, but in reality his heart belongs to his wife. Agreeing their love will help their marriage survive its problems, the two reconcile and settle into domestic bliss.

The plot is unusual for its time in that Helen is not denigrated for her beliefs about marriage and Don is not depicted as being a cad.

####The Ex-Mrs. Bradford####
Wealthy murder mystery writer Paula Bradford (Jean Arthur) returns from her worldwide travels to see her former husband, surgeon Dr. Lawrence "Brad" Bradford (William Powell). He had divorced her because she was always involving him in real-life murder cases, but she wants him back. When a jockey riding the favorite dies while leading a race, she is convinced it was murder. She and Mike North (Frank M. Thomas), the horse's trainer, persuade the reluctant doctor to investigate. Brad is puzzled when he finds traces of gelatin on the corpse.

Then he receives an envelope at home addressed to North. North telephones a little later to say he sent it and will come pick it up. Someone claiming to be North calls shortly afterward and instructs Brad to meet him somewhere else, but without the money. Curious, Brad opens the envelope to find a great deal of money and replaces it with some torn up magazine pieces. Suspicious, Brad takes a taxi, but gets out a short distance away and returns to his suite. As he anticipated, a burglar is inside looking for the envelope. When the two men start fighting, Paula tries to help using a skull she picks up, but ends up knocking out Brad instead, allowing the intruder to get away.

Soon after, the doorbell rings. When Brad opens the door, North's body falls in. Police Inspector Corrigan (James Gleason) names Brad as the main suspect in the second death. Now Brad has to solve both murders to clear himself.

All sorts of suspects present themselves: Nick Martel (Robert Armstrong), a bookie who owed North $125,000 for a winning bet; Leroy Hutchins (Ralph Morgan), the owner of the winning horse; John Summers (Grant Mitchell), the favorite's owner; Mrs. Summers, who is seeing Martel behind her husband's back; and Summer's lawyer, Henry Strand (an uncredited Frank Reicher).

Even Brad's receptionist, Miss Prentiss (Lila Lee), had been spotted with Martel. Brad discovers that North made the bet through someone else and Martel was instructed to send the money to an address he was given, but decided to confront North in person instead over what he considered to be deceit; though North claimed he did not place the bet, Martel did not believe him and gave him the money.

Going to the address provided, Brad finds Paula already there. They then discover the body of Lou Pender (Paul Fix), the would-be burglar who had masqueraded as North, in a Murphy bed after he kills a spider. As Brad is examining the corpse, an unseen person shoots at him from the window. He is not seriously wounded.

Brad eventually figures out how the murders were committed. The killer put a deadly black widow spider inside a gelatin capsule, secretly attached it to the victim's body, and waited for the gelatin to melt from body heat, releasing the spider.

Since the police have the $125,000, Brad assumes the killer will try the same trick again. The same two horses are scheduled to race against each other the next day, so Brad has film cameras set up around the racetrack. The murderer does strike again, but Brad had taken the precaution of inoculating the jockey beforehand.

Brad invites all of the suspects to his suite, hoping the culprit will stay away. When that fails, he screens the film footage he had taken. It shows Mr. Summers slipping a capsule down the jockey's back.
Pulling out a gun, Summers admits his motive was revenge against his unfaithful wife and Martel.

Brad subdues him before he can shoot the lovers. During the struggle, however, Paula accidentally knocks out her ex-husband with a vase. Despite this, the couple remarry.

####Excess Baggage####
Emily Hope (Alicia Silverstone) stages her own kidnapping to get the attention of her wealthy, corrupt father. She puts herself in the trunk of her BMW 850i with taped legs and mouth, and handcuffs. After calling the police to come "rescue" her, a car thief named Vincent Roche (Benicio del Toro) unknowingly steals the car with her in it. Christopher Walken shows up as Emily's Uncle Ray, Jack Thompson as Emily's father and Harry Connick, Jr., as Greg, Vincent's car-stealing partner.

####The Exciters####
As described in a film magazine review, Ronnie Rand, a young woman who loves excitement of all kinds and whose watchword is speed, is obliged to marry by a certain day or lose a rich inheritance. Through dramatic circumstances, she meets Pierre Martel, a member of a band of crooks. Thinking that he is a man's man, Ronnie marries him. Martel's confederates seek to blackmail Ronnie and when she refuses to sign a check, they attempt to kill Martel, but he is saved by the police. It then develops that Martel is no crook at all, but is a United States Secret Service agent who was obtaining evidence against the crooks. Ronnie, somewhat disappointed that her husband is no burglar, makes the best of it and both husband and wife are happy.

####Exit Strategy####
James moves in with Kim, his girlfriend of three months, and quickly discovers they are not compatible.  With advice from his childhood best friends and second-hand goods store co-workers Carville and Leona, he tries to make the relationship work, but Kim's domineering nature makes this impossible. James then tries to get her to break up with him but still let him sleep on the couch.  Eventually, James tells Kim the painful truth, making her realize he wasn't what she wanted after all.

####The Fabulous Suzanne####
The young and beautiful Suzanne O'Neill (Barbara Britton) works as a waitress in her fiancé William "Bill" Harris's (William Henry) diner. Suzanne's problem is that Bill doesn't want to decide on a wedding date. He claims that he doesn't have enough money to get married; he wants to be able to support her on his own first, so that she doesn't have to work at all. But Suzanne gets tired of Bill's pride getting in the way of her dreams for the future. Suzanne starts betting on horse races, using her "lucky pin" to pick the right ones for the infamous and not always apt gambler Jonathan Tuttle (Frank Darien). When Tuttle passes away shortly after their enterprise has taken off, Suzanne finds out that he has left her seven thousand dollars through his will. She is more than surprised, since he wasn't that successful in his gambling. Suzanne takes the money to Bill, offering him to use them to scale up his business, but once again his pride comes in the way. She decides to leave Bill, returns the engagement ring, and leaves for New York to try her own wings of fortune.

Her lucky pin continues to prove itself useful when she manages to pick a very profitable stock at one of the city's reputable investment corporations: Hendrick Courtney, Sr. and Sons. The firms manager, Hendrick 'Hank' Courtney Jr. is baffled by her performance, and lets her go on picking several more stocks to see where she lands. It runs out she is more than lucky and she makes the firm a neat load of cash in a very short span of time.

Both the gloomy Hank and his more outgoing, easier younger brother Rex fall in love with Suzanne. She is overwhelmed by the attention and starts dating both brothers, even if she can't forget her previous fiancé Bill. She arranges, with the help of one of the brothers, that some of her money is sent to Bill, disguised as an inheritance from an aunt. Without struggling with his pride, Bill invests the money in a new and bigger diner, and he is ready to try to win back his lost love Suzanne. Another waitress of his has taken an interest in him and tries to convince him to give up waiting for Suzanne, and choose her instead.

Suzanne finds herself now being courted also by the two brothers' father, who has fallen for the charming former waitress head over heels. Despite this she manages to sneak away and come to the opening of Bill's new diner. She is hoping to talk her way back into Bill's life, but the rivaling waitress spills vicious lies into her ears, saying that she and Bill are now engaged to be married. Devastated by these news just leaves Bill a note and leaves the opening without meeting him. When Bill reads the note he immediately goes to New York to reconcile with his love and tell her the truth.

Bill finds his love in New York and they have a long talk during a Central Park coach ride, and it seems the couple will be able to let bygones be bygones. Upon the return to her apartment though, they bump into all three of the love-struck Courtneys. Bill is outraged and leaves Suzanne alone with the three men. After being abandoned by Bill, Suzanne decides to accept marrying one of the brother's, but without saying which one. On the wedding day, both brothers are left by the altar, and it turns out that Suzanne has been hijacked by their father. He has realised that Suzanne doesn't want to marry either of his sons, and takes her on a trip to look for Bill, in an effort to join them once and for all. When they arrive back to the small town they find that Bill has left the diner and all hope of reconciliation seems lost - until they discover that there is a re-opening of the old diner in progress, and Suzanne convince Bill to taker her back, with a little help from her lucky pin.

####Face in the Sky####
The film concerns two sign painters (Spencer Tracy and Stuart Erwin) who find themselves blackmailed by a beautiful woman (Marian Nixon) determined to force Tracy's character into marriage. The film was directed by Harry Lachman and released by Fox Film.

####The Facts of Life####
As the yearly vacation of six neighbors, the Gilberts, Masons and Weavers, approaches, Kitty Weaver and Larry Gilbert find themselves frustrated with the routine. When their spouses are kept away from the vacation, Kitty and Larry find themselves alone in Acapulco, with the Masons bedridden with illness. Forced together, Kitty and Larry fall in love. However, when the vacation is over, they face difficulties deciding whether to continue the romance. They can't bear seeing each other at their usual social activities, without being together. This leads to a rendezvous at the drive-in movie,  where they are recognized, followed by a botched visit to a local motel with humorous consequences. They arrange a weekend together in Monterey, and Kitty leaves behind a note for Jack telling him she is leaving him. The bungalow with a leaky roof rented by Larry becomes the backdrop for their gradual realization that leaving their families is much more complicated, and Larry and Kitty are much less compatible than they thought. The result is a madcap race back home to retrieve Kitty's breakup note before her husband Jack reads it.

####Fading Gigolo####
Dr. Parker (Sharon Stone), a wealthy dermatologist, mentions to her patient Murray (Woody Allen) that she and a woman friend, Selima (Sofia Vergara), wish to experience a "ménage à trois" and asks if he knows a willing man. Murray, whose used bookstore has failed as a business, convinces his friend and former employee Fioravante (John Turturro) to take the gig, as both are short of money. Soon, they build a thriving gigolo trade with Murray as the pimp. Murray lives with Othella (Tonya Pinkins) and her children, one of whom gets head lice. Murray takes the boy to Avigal (Vanessa Paradis), the attractive widow of a Hassidic rabbi, for treatment.

Murray tells Avigal about Fioravante, claiming he's a massage healer who can help her, before taking her to see him. Being too religiously observant to even shake hands with him, she nonetheless allows Fioravante to massage her back. That touch, the first in two years since the passing of her husband, brings her to tears. Meanwhile, Dovi (Liev Schreiber), who works for Shomrim, a Williamsburg, Brooklyn neighborhood patrol, becomes suspicious and follows Murray. Dovi is in love with Avigal, but she does not encourage him. Fioravante and Avigal meet several more times, culminating in a kiss in the park.

Fioravante is summoned to the long planned "ménage", but he's unable to finish it. The two women cheerfully realize the truth—he has fallen in love. Murray is kidnapped by a group of Hassids, taken to a Rabbinic Court and interrogated. Avigal interrupts the court and confesses to violating the laws of modesty, but nothing more, explaining she was lonely. Avigal now accepts Dovi, but has him drive her to Fioravante to say goodbye. Fioravante tells Murray he is leaving, though he reconsiders after a café encounter with another beautiful woman.

####Failure to Launch####
35-year-old Tripp still lives with his parents Al and Sue in Baltimore. His best friends Demo and Ace also still live in their parents' homes and seem proud of it. Tripp has many casual girlfriends. When he's tired of them, he invites them to “his place"—and when they realize he still lives at home, they promptly dump him.

Al and Sue are fascinated when their friends, whose adult son recently left home, reveal they hired an expert to get him to move out. The expert is Paula, who believes that men continue to live at home because they have low self-esteem. Her approach is to establish a relationship with the man to build his confidence, then transfer his attachment from his parents to her.

However, Tripp does not fit her previous profiles, as he has normal social skills, good self-esteem, and a good job he enjoys. After an awkward encounter with his parents, Paula thwarts Tripp's attempt to dump her and has sex with him, while developing real feelings. She and Tripp find themselves in unfamiliar waters and confide in their friends.

Paula's vocation exasperates her roommate Kit, who thinks Paula took the job because a man broke her heart who lived with his parents. She is shocked to learn why Tripp lives at home: His life collapsed when his fiancée suddenly died, and his family has been his solace ever since.

Ace discovers what is going on and blackmails Paula for a date with Kit. Although Kit is more attracted to Demo, she and Ace wind up falling in love. Ace then "outs"  Paula to Demo, who then tells all to Tripp. Tripp angrily confronts his parents and breaks up with Paula. Wracked with guilt, Paula refunds Al's and Sue's money. After an awkward confrontation, Tripp forgives his parents, but can't forgive Paula.

Tripp's parents and friends devise a plan to reconcile the two. They tie up and gag him, locking him and Paula together in a room. Paula pours her heart out, and he finally forgives her. The film ends with Al and Sue in their empty nest, happily singing "Hit the Road, Tripp". This fades into the closing credits over the Ray Charles song "Hit the Road, Jack", and we see Tripp and Paula sail away on his newly purchased boat.

####Fair Game####
Michael (Whaley) and Stacey (Torres) are co-workers who can barely get along at the office. When Michael is suddenly thrust out of his home, the two are unexpectedly forced to become roommates. Though neither is particularly happy about the situation, they eventually learn to like each other, to the point where an undeniable attraction forms. However, another man enters Stacey's life right around the same time, complicating things even more than they were before.

####Faithful in My Fashion####
Jeff (Tom Drake) arrives home to New York City after being away in the Army for several years. Unaware that his fiancée, Jean (Donna Reed), is now dating a man (Warner Anderson) at the department store where she works, Jeff assumes she is still intends to marry him. In order to save Jeff from heartache, several employees at Jean's store set up a ruse to keep Jeff unaware of Jean's new man until he is deployed again. Jean cooperates with the ruse, but it is not long before secrets are revealed.

####Falling for Christmas####
Hotel heiress Sierra Belmont has been newly appointed as "vice president of atmosphere" at the luxury ski resort in Aspen owned by her father, Beauregard, despite having no interest in the business. While her father is away on business, Sierra goes up a mountain top with her influencer boyfriend Tad for a photo shoot where he proposes to her. However, the harsh wind causes Sierra, who was wearing skis, to lose balance. Sierra falls from the top of the mountain, is separated from Tad and hits her head on a tree. Unconscious, Sierra is found by Jake Russell, who she bumped into earlier just after his failed business pitch to her father, and is taken to a hospital. Sierra loses her memory due to the accident and the hospital staff is unable to verify her identify.

Jake offers the amnesiac Sierra a place at his bed and breakfast hotel, the Northstar Lodge, until she can remember who she is or someone comes to claim her. After taking the name Sarah from a stuffed toy that belongs to Jake's daughter Avy, Sierra decides to help him and his family at the lodge in hopes of getting her memory back, but struggles. However, Sierra bonds with Jake and his family, especially Avy, as she finds out that she lost her mother a couple years ago and feels sympathy for her, due to losing her own when she was younger and starts to trigger memories. After improving in helping the lodge, Sierra adjusts to a normal life. As the hotel is struggling, Sierra comes up with a party to raise funds for the hotel.

Meanwhile, Tad is lost in the woods and finds shelter with recluse Ralph, who takes him to town on foot. At the Belmont, the hotel staff don't think to look for Sierra and Tad as they believe that they are away on a trip. After four days, Beauregard returns from his trip where he finds out that Sierra is missing and informs the Sheriff, who has just retrieved Tad and Ralph. At the party, the town comes together to support the Northstar Lodge, which is declared a historic site. Before Jake can thank Sierra, Tad and her father rush in to take her home, restoring her memory. On Christmas Day, Sierra does her own chores, much to the staff and Tad's surprise.

Sierra decides she will do things for herself going forward and resigns from the position her father created for her realizing the hotel business is not for her. Meanwhile, Avy reveals to Jake that her wish was for him to find love and convinces him to seek out Sierra. Realizing that she fell in love with Jake, Sierra breaks off her engagement with Tad and, shortly after, Jake confesses his love to her. Sierra also decides to go back and help Jake run the Northstar Lodge, especially when she finds out that it is sold out for the season after she publicly thanked them at a press conference. Beauregard believes he owes Jake a debt of gratitude for finding Sierra and so decides to invest in the Northstar Lodge. They end with a very happy Christmas all together.

####Falling in Love Again####
expand section|date=October 2015
Harry Lewis grew up in the Bronx, New York with grand ambitions. He married the most beautiful girl in school, Sue, and planned to become an architect.

Years later, Harry and Sue, unhappy now and nostalgic for their past, are living in Los Angeles and running a garment business. An invitation to their high school reunion persuades them to return to their roots, and their lives together are recalled in flashback on the cross-country drive to New York.

####Falling Inn Love####
Gabriela Diaz, who already feels underappreciated in her San Francisco design firm, suddenly finds herself out of a job when it folds. Simultaneously it's the week of her break-up with her non-committed boyfriend Dean, who after over two years together leaves nothing in her place.

Frustrated with weeks of work rejections, one evening after drinking copious amounts of wine, Gabriela enters an on-line contest to "Win an Inn" in the New Zealand countryside and actually wins it. Thousands of airline miles later, she discovers the remote and neglected Bellbird Valley Farm boasts a crumbling facade, a floorboard-treading goat, a local meddling neighbor and innkeeper who covets the space, and a 1960s Land Rover.

Charlotte, the owner of the town's only B&B, visits Gabriela and reveals that the previous owner's great-grandson entered the house in the "Win an Inn" contest to get rid of it. Her first day she finds she has a plumbing problem in the kitchen, so she drives into town.

Initially Gabriela asks Norm at the hardware store if he knows of any contractors, he mentions Jake. They had already butted heads twice, so she immediately rejects this idea. After studying the blueprints, Gabriela decides to do an eco-renovation to restore the Inn.

Charlotte invites Gabriela to her inn for tea, mostly to ask her about the restoration. She makes her an offer on the house, explaining that she hopes to have a monopoly on the inns in the town but was cheated out of it.

Gabriela soon finds she's been befriended by the café owners, Shelly at the garden center and Dr. Corey as well as Jake Taylor. They come en masse to help her when the rumor of her cold spreads amongst them. Gabriela slowly warms to Jake, and over several conversations finds out he's the nearby town's only restoration expert, bereaved since his long-term girlfriend's death three years ago and chief volunteer firefighter.

Gabriela and Jake work on the project as a 50-50 partnership, and in the process spend a day together that includes a kiss. However, in the evening she gets a call with a job offer. Jake leaves upset when Gabriela says she's considering it.

Once the final fixtures are hung, Gabriela's hesitant to leave. Her connections with Jake, the inn, and the inviting community that nurtured her creative side make her seriously reconsider moving on. Gabriela starts to talk to Jake about her doubts when Dean shows up unexpectedly.

Dean came all the way from the US after Charlotte invited him via text using Gabriela's phone. An attractive financial offer to buy the Inn is organized by him with a Melbourne, Australia investment company. This shocks Charlotte who planned to buy the Bellbird Valley Farm herself, thinking that Dean's sudden appearance would push Gabriela to sell the farm and return to her city life.

As Gabriela and Jake do a walk through with the interested buyers at the Open House, they explain the inn's eco-friendly details, both pointing out the other's contribution. It is deemed a labor of love. The Australian firm make them a high offer, which Dean pushes them to accept. Doing so, Jake leaves with Shelly following.

Shelly convinces Jake to talk to Gabriela about his feelings. However before he can, a fire at Charlotte's B&B deploys half the town as volunteer firefighters. Jake has a near-death experience saving a guest. Gabriela forsakes her San Francisco life to remain in the community to run the inn with Jake. The movie ends with a drone-shot sequence over the restored property.

####False Pretenses####
When Mary Beekman (Irene Ware) loses her waitress job after a fight with her loutish boyfriend, trucker Mike O’Reilly (Edward Gargan), she stands at a bridge on a windy night, loses her pay check to the wind and leans over the guardrail to catch it, but socialite Kenneth Alden (Sidney Blackmer) catches her. He’s lost everything that is not already mortgaged. Both down on their luck, they assume that the other is there to jump off the bridge.

Instead, Mary has an idea. If Ken sells shares to a syndicate of his wealthy friends, in a phoney beauty product, they’ll have enough money for some clothes to pass Mary off in society long enough to meet and marry a wealthy bachelor. Then, they can pay everyone back with interest. The con might work, except that Ken has too much integrity to marry Clarissa Stanhope (Betty Compson) for money, and Mary is beginning to see his point when she falls for Pat (Russell Hopton), who has secrets of his own.

The plot boils over when Mike shows up to blow the lid off. Pat's valet is a thief, who promised not to act foolishly, but escapes with a stolen tiara. Meanwhile, Mary plans to leave, so she shares a taxi to the station with Pat's valet. After a police chase, Mary is hauled off to the police station.

It looks like no one is going to end up with anything, but a bad reputation, but, what starts out dramatically ends comically, with everyone getting what he or she really wants out of life.

####5 to 7####
Brian Bloom (Anton Yelchin), a struggling 24-year-old writer in New York City, meets a 33-year-old French woman named Arielle Pierpont (Bérénice Marlohe). They feel powerfully attracted to one another.

After their second meeting, Arielle reveals that she is married to a much older diplomat, Valéry (Lambert Wilson), and they have two young children. Arielle and Valéry have an agreement that each is permitted to have extramarital affairs as long as they are limited to the time between 5 and 7 p.m. on weeknights. Brian is perplexed at this information and tells Arielle that he cannot continue to see her, believing it to be unethical. She says that, should he change his mind, she will continue to smoke on Fridays at the same place they met.

After three weeks Brian decides to meet again with Arielle. She gives him a hotel key and in the evening at the hotel room they consummate their relationship. They begin to meet regularly at the same hotel room in the evenings.

Valéry, who is aware of Brian's affair with Arielle, approaches him on the street and invites him to his house for dinner. There, Brian meets Arielle and Valéry's children and is introduced to Valéry's lover, 25-year-old editor Jane (Olivia Thirlby). Arielle later meets Brian's parents, Sam (Frank Langella) and Arlene (Glenn Close). Upon learning that she is an older, married mother of two, Sam tells Brian that he disapproves of the relationship, while Arlene accepts that they love each other despite the circumstances.

When Brian is invited to a "New Yorker" ceremony to receive an award for one of his short stories, he is joined by Arielle, Valéry, Jane, and his parents. Jane tells Brian that her boss Galassi (Eric Stoltz), a publisher, has read his story and wants him to write a novel.

Brian meets Arielle at the hotel and asks her to marry him, giving her a ring. He insists that he is truly in love with her, and Arielle accepts his proposal, telling him to meet her the next day at the hotel. Valéry shows up at Brian's apartment that night, slapping him and expressing anger at his betrayal of the rules and boundaries of an open marriage. He then gives Brian a check for $250,000 for Brian to give Arielle the life she deserves, and he leaves.

The next day, the hotel doorman gives Brian a letter from Arielle. In it she explains that, although she loves him deeply, she cannot leave her husband and children, and asks him not to contact her again.

Jane later ends her relationship with Valéry because it feels like a betrayal of her friendship with Brian, and Brian's first novel is published by Galassi. After some years, Brian is walking down the street with his wife, Kiva (Jocelyn DeBoer), and their two-year-old son. They run into Arielle, Valéry and their now-teenage children outside the Guggenheim. Valéry asks about Jane, and Brian tells him that she is married with a son. Arielle shows him subtly that she still wears the ring he gave to her before they part again.

####10 Years####
On the day of their 10-year high school reunion, Jake and his girlfriend Jess arrive at the home of his now-married high school friends Cully and Sam. Other friends begin to arrive including best friends Marty and AJ, famous musician Reeves, and the adventurous Scott with his wife, Suki. They depart for the reunion and reunite with their friend Garrity and meet his wife Olivia; and reconnect with Garrity's best friend Andre. Meanwhile, reclusive classmate Elise arrives at the reunion alone. She is ignored by the party planner, prom queen Anna.

Jake, Cully, Andre, and Reeves smoke a joint in Jake's car when he reveals an envelope with an engagement ring inside, stating that he has intended to ask Jess to marry him for quite some time but hasn't found the right moment to propose. However, Jake is conflicted when he sees his high school sweetheart Mary and her new husband Paul. Jake, Jess, Mary, and Paul share awkward introductions, and Jake and Mary reconnect for the first time in eight years. Reeves approaches Elise and the pair reminisce when he spots an old picture of Elise wearing bright yellow shoes.

As the night continues, Olivia unexpectedly discovers that Garrity has an affinity for hip hop, Cully drunkenly attempts and fails to appropriately apologize to some geeky classmates for being a bully in high school, and Marty and AJ attempt to flirt with Anna, causing tension between the duo. Jake and Mary discuss prom, which they were unable to attend due to Mary's father having a heart attack that night. As the reunion comes to a close, the group departs for a local karaoke bar. Reeves flirts with Elise but she turns him down.

Anna leaves the party early, resulting in Marty and AJ deciding to toilet paper her house. At the bar, Jess takes notice of Jake's behavior around Mary and decides to return to the hotel under the guise of being tired. Paul does the same. Scott and Suki sing karaoke and Olivia is impressed by Garrity's breakdancing abilities. Reeves is pressured by his friends to sing his hit song "Never Had". Elise, never having heard the song, realizes it was inspired by her. The two share a kiss and spend the remainder of the night together. Anna catches Marty and AJ vandalizing her home and becomes upset, revealing that she is now an unhappy single mother with two children. Marty reveals that he is not a successful New Yorker, but instead lives in a small apartment and is financially unstable, and AJ reveals that he is getting a divorce. The trio bond over their shared life issues.

As the night comes to a close, Cully becomes embarrassingly drunk and upsets Sam. Scott reveals to his friends that he intends on returning to Japan with Suki to continue their adventures together. Mary asks Jake for the dance they never had at prom, finally giving them an opportunity to properly end their relationship. Mary reveals that she's pregnant, the two agree that they are happy with where their lives have taken them. Jake returns to the hotel and finds Jess still awake. She reveals that she left to allow Jake to get his closure with Mary.

Jake and Jess soon join their friends at a local diner. Jake returns to his car and obtains the engagement ring from the envelope.

####About a Boy####
Will Freeman lives a carefree lifestyle without any responsibility or commitments, thanks to royalties left to him by his father's successful Christmas song. Will joins the Single Parents Alone Together (SPAT) community group under the pretense that he is the father to an imaginary child, but instead aims to meet single mothers. Will meets Suzie who he is attracted to but also meets Marcus, the socially awkward son of one of Suzie's friends unexpectedly on a planned play-date. When Will and Suzie take Marcus home, they find Marcus' mother Fiona (who suffers bouts of depression) has attempted suicide and rush to get her to the hospital in time.

Marcus soon discovers that Will's imaginary son does not exist, and uses it as leverage by blackmailing Will to go out with his mother as he wants to ensure Fiona doesn't get depressed again. Though Will shows no interest in Fiona, he begins to bond with Marcus and ultimately matures as an adult as a result. Will helps Marcus to establish confidence, but this plan soon backfires, and Marcus accidentally reveals that Will is not a parent. Fiona confronts Will and demands an explanation. Will retorts that he is only building confidence in the boy because he is routinely humiliated and bullied at school. Though Will promises to cease further contact with Marcus, Fiona recognizes that Will's genuine interest in her son is good for both of them.

Will joins Marcus and Fiona for Christmas, giving Marcus a Mystikal album as well as a portable CD player. During an exchange with Suzie who knows by now of Will's earlier deception, Marcus stands up for Will, and in turn, also stands up to Fiona's confrontational methods. Will defuses the situation, citing an earlier incident where Marcus accidentally killed a duck with his mother's cottage loaf. Marcus invites Will to Christmas dinner, and Will genuinely enjoys his day with Marcus' family. As Marcus develops his first crush at school (Ellie), Will also meets Rachel, who he hits it off with, and for the first time in his dating life, he begins to develop a serious interest in a woman. When Rachel begins to lose interest in Will as he describes his lifestyle, he brings up Marcus, and she responds as she is a single mother and believes Marcus is Will's son. Will fails to correct her, and asks Marcus to pose as his son for a while. Marcus eventually encourages Will to tell the truth, but when Will does so and admits the truth to Rachel, it does not have the effect Will had expected, and the relationship ends.

Fiona's depression returns, and Marcus goes to Will for help. Will, however, is still upset over his break-up and lashes out at Marcus. He soon finds his previous life of self-dependence unfulfilling, missing the company Marcus provided. Will decides to reconcile with Marcus and talks to Fiona about her depression, but then finds out from her that Marcus is due to perform at a school talent show that night, which would ultimately result in him being humiliated for the rest of his school life. As expected, Marcus' performance is greeted with brutal mockery, but Will joins in with a guitar, ultimately saving him from total humiliation.

By the next Christmas, Will and Rachel reconcile, with Will having abandoned his previous lifestyle permanently. Will invites one of his Amnesty International colleagues to set him up with Fiona, and Marcus and Ellie remain good friends.

####About Adam####
Adam is a young Dubliner who ingratiates himself into the Owens family after meeting Lucy at the restaurant where she waits tables and sings. While wooing her, he becomes involved with her more reserved older sister Laura, a romantic literary type who spends most of her time at the library, her oldest married sister Alice, a new mother who is unhappy with her boring husband Martin, and her brother David, who seeks Adam's advice on how to seduce his repressed girlfriend, only to find himself nearly succumbing to Adam's charms himself.

Revisits are made to several scenes, each seen from the point-of-view of a different character.

####About Last Night####
In Chicago, Dan Martin and Bernie Litko, two 20-something friends and colleagues, discuss their sexual escapades. Later on, Bernie and Dan's recreational softball team, sponsored by local bar "Mother's," plays against a local advertising agency and wins. Attending this game with her girlfriends is Debbie Sullivan, who works at the advertising company and is sleeping with her boss, Steve.

Debbie catches Dan's eye and they flirt at the beer keg. She and her friends, Joan and Pat, decide to attend the game's afterparty at Mother's, where Debbie again runs into Dan, with whom Pat flirts and Joan takes an immediate dislike to. They wind up back at Dan's apartment and sleep together, after which Debbie hastily leaves.

The next day, Dan calls Debbie at work "about last night," and asks her out on a second date, to which she accepts. Afterwards, they again wind up in bed together and spend the following day exploring the city, where Dan reveals to Debbie that his dream is to quit his job at a restaurant supply company and open his own restaurant. They begin dating more seriously and move in together, much to the chagrin of Joan and Bernie, who dislike each other as well.

As neither has ever been in a serious relationship before, they attempt to navigate cohabitation without much support from their friends. They experience much throughout their relationship: Dan being contacted by a former lover who is married with children, Debbie's boss Steve having difficulty accepting the end of their affair, Joan softening when she begins dating her new boyfriend Gary, a pregnancy scare, and Dan having difficulties with his boss, who wants him to stop providing supplies to the Swallow, an oldish diner owned by his client-turned-friend Gus.

Despite having told each other the “L Word,” Debbie and Dan's relationship becomes strained. It reaches a boiling point at a New Year's Eve party at Mother's, where Debbie witnesses a drunken Pat making advances towards Dan, and Joan discovers her boyfriend is married and returning to his wife. Joan tearfully asks Debbie to take her home, to which she agrees, despite Dan's drunken objections. Upon Debbie's return home, Dan says he's not happy, and ends their relationship. Debbie immediately moves out of their apartment and back in with Joan. Despite getting back on the dating scene quickly, Dan begins to regret his decision regarding Debbie.

After a few months he calls her and acts nonchalant; Debbie tells him to get lost and hangs up on him. He starts to lurk around Debbie's social outings, culminating in him telling her he made a mistake and misses her at the St. Patrick's Day celebration at Mother's. Debbie turns him down, saying, "You asked me to leave and I left" and that getting over him was the hardest thing she's ever had to do.

Hoping to move on with his life, Dan partners with Gus to revitalize the Swallow into an old-school diner, achieving his dream. That summer, at another softball game, Dan and Bernie see Debbie riding her bike through the park with Joan, who convinces her to go and talk to Dan. She approaches him and they both express regret at how their relationship turned out. As Debbie begins to turn away, Dan asks her out again and suggests they go to a great new place, but she suggests with a smile that they just go to "some old joint," signifying that she is aware of his new restaurant. As she rides away on her bike, Bernie convinces Dan to run after her, and the camera pans out to see Dan and Debbie passing through the park, hinting at their renewed relationship.

####Adam####
Adam Raki is a young man with Autism living alone in Manhattan after his father's recent death. He has a friend, Harlan Keyes, an old army friend of his father's, who is always there for him. Because of his condition, Adam has difficulty communicating and likes to escape into his love of space exploration. His fixation on detail, repetitive behaviors, and mind-blindness cost him his job at a toy manufacturing company and nearly got him arrested after he is mistaken for a pedophile. He does not want to leave the apartment he and his father had been living in, but the loss of his job leaves him with an uncertain future, including the problem of continuing to pay the mortgage. Although he likes to stick to his routine and avoid socializing, Adam is lonely and wishes things could be different.

Beth Buchwald, a school teacher and aspiring children's book writer, moves into the apartment above his and they strike up an awkward friendship. One night, Beth is shocked to find him trying to clean her apartment windows suspended from the roof of the building in a space suit. She takes a liking to Adam despite his oddities. Adam hopes for a relationship with Beth.  Although his first attempts are uneasy, he eventually breaks out of his beloved routines enough to be able to date Beth.

When Adam asks Beth if she was aroused as he was during an outing to Central Park, she is taken aback. Adam admits his Asperger's and explains his inability to interpret her emotions. Surprised by his innocence, the next day she asks a co-worker about Asperger's syndrome and is advised that Adam is not "dating material".  Nonetheless, she is drawn to him, and his eccentricities make him more attractive to her. Adam's innocence, honesty and unique ways endear him to her and she falls in love.

Things begin to go downhill when Beth's father, Marty, gets into legal trouble. In a naive effort to make small talk, Adam asks Marty about the details of his alleged crimes, which does not go over well with Beth.  After Adam discovers that Beth and her father engineered an "accidental" meeting (in an effort to protect Adam's feelings), Adam angrily accuses Beth of being a liar and she storms out.

Adam gets a call with a job offer in California working in satellite navigation. After Harlan counsels Adam that the world is full of liars and he simply needs to find the ones that are worthwhile for him. He goes to Beth, apologizes for his behavior, and asks her to go to California with him. Marty objects to this, and he and Beth argue. Beth asks Adam why he wants her to come with him. Not seeing the opportunity to express his feelings for Beth, Adam lists practical ways in which she helps him. Beth concludes that Adam is not in love with her, and she tells Adam she cannot go with him.

A year later, Adam is working at the observatory, where his keen interest in space telescopes and his eidetic memory have made him successful and fulfilled in his job. He has also seemingly learned to pick up on social cues and pushes himself to join social situations. He receives a package from Beth containing her first published children's book, inspired by Adam and Asperger's.  He reads the first page in which Beth has anthropomorphized raccoons, used to represent Adam and his family.  Adam looks deep in thought and, in a moment of realization, he understands why Beth wanted to anthropomorphize the raccoons. Even after a year apart, this moment of clarity seems to bring him closer to Beth and he smiles in happiness.

####Admission####
Straight-laced Princeton University Admissions Officer Portia Nathan is caught off guard while making a recruiting visit to an alternative high school overseen by a former college classmate, the free-wheeling John Pressman. With vast experience in the coaching, consoling, and criticism involving Princeton's admission, she pays a visit to the Quest School, where John teaches while raising an adopted son. After exposing Portia to outspoken Quest students' impressions of college, he takes her to meet the rather unconventional Jeremiah Balakian, a child prodigy.

Back on campus, Portia's longtime boyfriend Mark breaks up with her after impregnating a "Virginia Woolf scholar" named Helen. After an awkward romantic attraction to Pressman, she arranges for Jeremiah to visit Princeton, where she and a colleague, Corinne, are rivals to succeed the soon-to-retire Dean of Admissions.

Portia long ago had a secret pregnancy, putting the baby up for adoption, and is shown apparent proof by Pressman that Jeremiah is hers.  Although he is brilliant, Jeremiah's miserable transcript results in his being deemed unfit to attend the University. Portia, in an act that greatly endangers her position, schemes to gain Jeremiah entrance into the school, knowing that Princeton cannot reveal such a scandal.

Her resignation is demanded. Later, when revealing to Jeremiah that she is his biological mother, she finds out that there was a photocopy mistake on his birth certificate and that the boy has already located his actual biological mother. Portia appears at the Adoption Agency, trying to locate her son, where she describes her life with a different perspective. When asked how would she feel to meet her actual child, she replies that she would feel "nervous, but lucky."

In the end, now dating Pressman, she receives a letter about her son, which says he is not ready to meet her yet. Pressman points out to her that she is on the waitlist "... and that's not so bad."

####After Sex####
#Christopher and Leslie are a couple in their mid to late 20s who have no-strings-attached sex on a regular basis. After another get-together, they debate and argue over the meaning of their relationship and the nature of sex vs. love, with each of them claiming that the other is the only one developing feelings, before both finally say "I love you" to each other.
#Freddy and Jay are a pair of college guys who, after having sex, argue over Jay refusing to admit that he is gay until Freddy tells him about his teenaged years of hiding his homosexuality out of fear of being shunned, and tells Jay that he cannot be honest with others about his sexual orientation before he is honest with himself.
#Kristy and Sam are a teenaged couple, both of whom have just had sex for the first time in Kristy's bedroom, and after some small talk, Sam has to hide when Kristy's mother, Janet, shows up for a talk about sex with Kristy.
#Nikki and Kat are two college roommates who are in a casual sexual relationship where Nikki allows Kat to perform oral sex on her, but insists that she is not a lesbian and only likes the oral sex because Kat performs it better than a guy. During their visit to the campus library, Kat admits to Nikki that she really is a lesbian, but is comfortable with hiding the fact from her strict parents.
#Trudy and Gene are a middle-aged, interracial couple who have sex in a nature park, and during the walk back, talk about how they first met at an orgy during the "sexual revolution" of the 1970s and about their children who seem not to understand their active sexual lifestyle.
#Neil and Bob are a closeted 30-something gay couple who have sex in Neil's apartment. Afterwards, Neil drives Bob home to his house, where during the drive, they discuss their roles as gay men in a relationship and who is the "butch" and the "bitch", since they both have different backgrounds and careers. The next day, Neil is revealed as the lead singer in a hair rock band, and Bob is a high school football coach.
#David and Jordy are an ex-couple who have met at a cheap motel for sex where David defends his infidelity and womanizing as the person that he is, while Jordy is a troubled woman who cannot seem to let go of her ex, despite her knowledge of his unapologetic cheating.
#Marco and Alanna are two strangers who have sex after meeting at a nightclub; afterwards they arrive in Marco's loft, where they learn more about each other, but Marco is soon disturbed about the dull-witted Alanna's admission of being a high-priced escort and of her love for sex with strangers for money.

####Afterglow####
The lives of two unhappily married couples intertwine in Montreal, Canada. The marriage between Lucky Mann, a contractor and his beautiful British wife, former actress Phyllis Hart, has been in a poor state for years. Their relationship fell apart when Phyllis revealed to Lucky that their daughter Cassie was not his biological child. She had her with an actor while Lucky was in the Navy. Cassie ran away to Montreal and they have not spoken in years. The Manns moved from California to Montreal to find Cassie, but without success. Phyllis is depressed after learning that her daughter's father, actor Jack Dana, recently died. She begins to question her own mortality and goes to see a doctor for a checkup. She also spends her time watching her old films that she starred in with Dana. Phyllis knows Lucky cheats on her with his construction clients, and therefore they have a silent agreement that they will not have sex. Lucky is shown cheating on her with Gloria Marino.

Meanwhile, corporate executive Jeffrey Byron and his wife Marianne are also unhappily married. Marianne desires children and is starved of affection by Jeffrey, who seems only to be in love with himself. Jeffrey is depressed and seems to be contemplating his sexuality and, perhaps, suicide. One day after work, Marianne tries to get Jeffrey to have sex with her because she is ovulating, but he denies her. She decides to start preparing a room for a baby in their condo anyway and hires a contractor, who happens to be Lucky Mann, referred to her by her friend Isabel's mother Gloria. She is instantly attracted to him and they begin an affair. Jeffrey meets Phyllis in a bar where Phyllis had just witnessed Marianne and Lucky on a date. Jeffrey is instantly attracted to Phyllis, and seems to have a need to be with an older woman after having shown a sudden attraction to his older secretary, Helene. Marianne is attracted to the older and rugged Lucky. Jeffrey invites Phyllis away for a weekend at a resort. She initially says no and goes home to Lucky. Phyllis tries to sleep with Lucky and he brushes her off, so she tells him that she knows about Marianne. She ends up meeting Jeffrey and going away with him. Once they are at the resort, they meet up with Jeffrey's big cheese client, Bernard Ornay and his mistress Monica Bloom. Ornay also becomes attracted to Phyllis which causes a rift with Jeffrey. Jeffrey and Phyllis look likely to sleep together in her room, but Jeffrey terminates contact after Phyllis responds flirtatiously when Ornay knocks on her door. They leave the resort the next morning.

The two couples end up in the same hotel bar, and Jeffrey and Lucky have a physical fight. Marianne and Phyllis leave together and go back to the Byrons' apartment, where Marianne reveals she is pregnant with Lucky's baby. Marianne does not know yet that Phyllis is his wife. Phyllis becomes upset and leaves. Jeffrey and Marianne have sex and reconcile. Lucky finds Cassie and they reconcile. At the end of the story, the same thing that had happened to Phyllis has happened to Marianne. They will both have raised a child with another man that is not the father. Marianne tells her friend Isabel the baby's father is Jeffrey, which reveals she does not plan on telling Lucky that it is his, just as Phyllis had done with Jack Dana. The final scene shows Phyllis in bed crying, knowing that Marianne will have Lucky's baby, and emotional over Cassie coming home.

####Agnes Browne####
In 1967 in Dublin, the unexpected death of Agnes Browne's husband sends her family, consisting of seven children aged between two and fourteen, into emotional turmoil and financial crisis. She is forced to borrow money from a ruthless loan shark named Mr. Billy to make ends meet. Agnes faces her dismal existence by selling fruits and vegetables at an open-air market based in Dublin's Moore Street where she spends time with her best friend Marion, who proves to be a great source of encouragement in her difficulties.

Wishing to escape her troubles, if only for a short time, Agnes dreams of finding enough money to attend an upcoming Tom Jones concert. Agnes' dream is realized when Marion secretly buys two tickets and gives them to her. Agnes also accepts the offer of a date with a French baker named Pierre, and her children pool their money together and buy her a new dress to wear on the date. Meanwhile, Marion soon discovers an ominous lump in her breast, which proves to be malignant.

Eventually the family has to face the loan shark. Mr. Billy warns Agnes that she has until Christmas to pay him back or he will strip her house of her furniture. On Christmas Day, Agnes receives a letter stating she can collect the money from the hotel where her husband worked. She holds off Mr. Billy and sends her children to the hotel, where they meet Tom Jones and tell him their story. Tom then visits Agnes in her home, helps her pay off Mr. Billy, and takes her, her children and their dog to his concert, where Jones dedicates his song "She's a Lady" to Agnes.

####Alfie####
Alfie Elkins is a Cockney limo driver in Manhattan. A sex addict, he regularly beds women on one-night stands. In addition, he maintains a casual relationship with single mother Julie, his "semi-regular-quasi-sort-of-girlfriend thing", and unhappily married Dorie. Once Dorie wants more than casual sex, he stops calling.

Alfie and his coworker and best friend Marlon want to open a company together, but Marlon needs to get back with his ex, Lonette. When Alfie goes to put in a good word for him, he finds her at her bar. But after getting drunk, they have sex. Alfie meets Marlon the next day, terrified he knows about it, but is relieved when Marlon says he and Lonette got back together and are getting married.

When Alfie goes to Julie's for a booty call, she throws him out, confronting him as she had discovered Dorie's panties in her rubbish bin—he had discarded them after finding them in his pocket. Intending to reconcile with her at her son's birthday, Alfie sees Julie has returned to her estranged husband. He later discovers Lonette is pregnant with his child, and (without telling Marlon) they go to a clinic for an abortion. Soon afterward, Marlon and Lonette unexpectedly move upstate, without saying goodbye.

Following repeated failures to achieve an erection, Alfie sees a doctor, who tells him he is perfectly healthy, and his impotence is due to stress. However, he finds a lump on Alfie's penis. They immediately run a test at the clinic and he spends a few anxious days awaiting the results. On a trip to the hospital, Alfie meets Joe, a widower, in the bathroom. Joe gives life advice to the depressed Alfie: "Find somebody to love, and live every day like it's your last". Soon afterward, Alfie finds out he's cancer-free.

Believing he's been given a second chance, Alfie decides to "aim higher" in his love life. He meets Nikki, a beautiful but unstable woman, and they quickly embark on a passionate, turbulent relationship. Moving in together, Alfie finds it hard to put up with her mood swings, especially after she goes off her medication. Distancing himself, he focuses on an older woman, Liz. A sultry cosmetics mogul, she inspires him to "aim higher". He becomes infatuated, but she wants to keep it strictly sexual. Alfie then ends it with Nikki.

Running into Julie in a coffee shop, Alfie realizes he has feelings for her; however, she's now with someone else. On a trip upstate to visit Marlon and his now-wife, Lonette, she reveals she never had the abortion, and, Marlon knows Alfie is the father, but nonetheless decided to stay. Upon seeing Marlon with hurt in his eyes, Alfie visits Joe, who tells him to get his life together. Alfie turns to Liz for comfort but is crushed that she has an even younger man in her life.

Alfie has a chance meeting with Dorie late one night. As he tries to get back into her life, she wants no part of him. Apologizing for not calling, he admits he has trouble expressing himself, running from relationships when they become too serious. She wishes him luck. The film ends with Alfie talking about genuinely changing his ways.

####All the Days Before Tomorrow####
The film follows a non-linear convoluted journey through (4) different settings: One which represents today; one which represents protagonist Wes' dreamworld; and the remaining two representing the good times shared with Alison who is Wes' dearest and closest platonic friend. The movie has been made the same way as the memoirs it is trying to portray. Non-existence of time is one aspect of the protagonist that is loved by his friend. The film captures this time anomaly in their relationship with scenes of memories in a non-linear sequence. It gives you a sense of the loneliness and lack of deep connection Alison is going through while trying to maintain her relationship with her beau in Tokyo, all while making you aware that Wes is only carrying on with his life by holding onto the best memories between them. (This is depicted in the opening scene when Alison is watching the shining window drapes which represent the same kind of drapes at a hotel where she stayed with Wes during a road trip through the Utah deserts).

When looking back at the movie in linear fashion, it starts with an unexpected phone call from Alison to Wes on a winter evening. Alison is about to leave LA to join her beau in Tokyo. She resisted calling him during her stay in LA but on the last night she finally gave in. They mutually agreed to stay at Wes' apartment overnight not only to catch-up on each other's lives, but to also re-establish the deep, meaningful bond they had with each other years ago. The film depicts frequent incidents from their past as they spend the night talking, painting fingernails, visiting the local store to purchase watermelon and finally sharing the bed in a non-sexual way.

Scenes from the past show that Alison and Wes met two summers prior while Alison's current boyfriend Kai was away at a super-computing related conference. Wes and Alison immediately had a great connection that developed further as they shared various joys and laughter of their lives. They even ended up visiting a bar to enjoy a night of dancing. There are also scenes from the previous summer when they both took a road trip across the Utah desert and share a great time depicted in a quiet serene backdrop with no signs of mundane life and worries. With each truly enjoying the others company, they stay in a hotel in separate beds where Alison finally confesses to Wes that she is very happy and wants things to stay as they are so they do not lose what has developed. Understanding Wes's dilemma too, she apologizes for being unable to offer anything more than friendship due to her relationship with Kai. During this time she makes a call to Kai and re-confirms their committed love. Despite Wes and Alison understanding each other's position, they eventually end up kissing while getting more drunk and casual towards end of a game of strip poker. Before things go too far, Alison realizes her mistake and begins to fill with guilt. Wes feels awkward at the situation too. The next morning, despite Wes' insistence that they drive back together as planned, Alison tells Wes that she wants to go back alone.

Interspersed between these scenes of memories are monochromatic dream sequences featuring an ethereal, third character that appears to be Wes' guardian angel or physician. The conversations between Wes and his guardian angel further help Wes to understand himself, and to realize the deeper meanings of life and the cosmic connections between eternity with Alison. (There is one Christmas party scene shown in the movie that does not fit any of the above timelines or dream sequences.)

Finally with the recollection of good memories and an old platonic bond now re-established between Wes and Alison, it is the current day morning in Los Angeles. Alison wakes up only to find that it has started snowing in LA and flights are delayed. Now, Alison and Wes both get more time to share together.

####AmeriQua####
Charlie (Bobby Kennedy) is an American hard-partying slacker and recent college graduate whose wealthy parents (Alec Baldwin and Catherine Mary Stewart) cut him off with a cheque for $5000 and an ultimatum to get a job. Instead, eager to explore Europe, he buys a plane ticket to Italy. On the plane, he meets the self-proclaimed "King" of Bologna, Lele (Lele Gabellone), who tells him he is welcome to stay with him, also making a strong impression by joining the mile high club with the woman he just met, Alessia (Interlanguage link multi|Valentina Correani|it|lt=Valentina Correani).

Just out of the airport in Rome, Charlie is accosted and robbed by three Neapolitan mafia men: Vito (Vito Facciolla),  Jaroslav (Interlanguage link multi|Matteo Reza Azchirvani|it|lt=Matteo Azchirvani), and "Il Nero" (Interlanguage link multi|Edoardo Pesceas|it|lt=Edoardo Pesceas). Charlie manages to get away from them, fleeing in their pickup truck. Not knowing what else to do (he speaks no Italian and has nowhere to go), he heads to Bologna to take the "King" up on his offer.

Lele takes Charlie under his wing and introduces him to his eccentric group of friends, like Badoo (Interlanguage link multi|Gianlucca Bazzoli|it|lt=Gianlucca Bazzoli), a scraggly "gutter punk" ("punkabbestia"), and "Il Pisa" (Interlanguage link multi|Giuseppe Sanfelice di Monteforte|it|lt=Giuseppe Sanfelice), an insatiable whoremonger. Charlie moves in and picks up where he left off in the US, living each day as if it were his last. Lele teaches Charlie the subtle techniques of Italian seduction, throws all-night parties, and generally causes chaos. Charlie is a good student and meets and charms two lovely ladies, the dangerously beautiful Valentina (Alessandra Mastronardi) and all-American beauty Vicky (Eva Amurri).



Thanks to Charlie's swaggering immaturity and some cultural misunderstanding, he incurs the wrath of mafiosi Don Ferracane (Giancarlo Giannini), Valentina's father, and Don Farina (Ernesto Mahieux) the boss of the three men Charlie clashed with in Rome. It turns out the van Charlie escaped in had something important belonging to the ill-tempered Don Farina, who, exasperated with his underboss Vito, threatens to kill him unless he produces results. Vito threatens Jaroslav and Il Nero in turn and the trio finally track Charlie to Bologna...

####And God Created Woman####
Robin Shea (Rebecca De Mornay) is a convict in a New Mexico prison. She manages to escape, but mistakenly hitches a ride in the limo of James Tiernan (Frank Langella), a  politician who was visiting the prison as part of his campaign for governor. He returns her to the prison in secret. While changing back into prison clothes, Robin meets Billy Moran (Vincent Spano), a carpenter and handyman who is doing work in the compound under supervision that is supposed to keep him isolated from the female inmates. Billy helps Robin temporarily hide from the guards, and they have sex.

Robin learns who James Tiernan is from a political ad on television where he talks about his strong stance on prison issues. She manages to call him at his campaign headquarters, asking for help on her upcoming parole hearing. James gives her advice, one suggestion of which is that she get married. Robin approaches Billy, offering him five thousand dollars to marry her for a year so she can get out of prison. Billy accepts, they are married and Robin is released not long after.

Robin moves in with Billy, who also lives with his brother Peter (Donovan Leitch) and Billy's son Timmy (Jamie McEnnan). Initially there is a clash of personalities due to the contrast between Billy's serious demeanor and Robin's wild-child nature. Billy is interested in having a real relationship with Robin, who instead insists that it's just an arrangement, and that she wants to focus on her musical career. Robin starts up a band, which Peter joins, and also meets up again with James, who uses Robin as a poster child for successful prison reform on his campaign.

Robin spends more time with the family, getting close to Peter and Timmy, which upsets Billy. Robin suggests they see other people, which Billy accepts. Billy has sex with another woman, while Robin has sex with James, who is married. Afterward the pair confront each other jealously over their being with other people.

The next morning Robin reconciles with Billy, helping him out when his jeep breaks down and spending time with him at work restoring an old museum. They have sex in Billy's workshop, and are interrupted by a group of tourists, who take pictures of the pair. At first Robin's public indecency is hushed up due to her status as James' poster child for giving convicts second chances, but when James sees the pictures he is jealous, and orders that Robin's parole be revoked. The police come for Robin when she is performing with her band at a bar. Robin flees to James' house for help, but he turns her away. Robin goes back to Billy's house, where he has packed up her things and prepared money for her. Billy promises to help her no matter what she wants to do, and Robin decides she is tired of running.

Billy and Robin secretly crash James' political dinner. Robin takes to the stage with her band, praising James' assistance in "helping" her. Her passionate performance earns them a standing ovation, which in turn helps James' image. James agrees to help Robin, and she no longer has to go back to prison. James goes on to win the election and Robin and Billy return home together, happily married.

####Angie####
Angie is an office worker who lives in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn, New York and dreams of a better life. After learning that she is pregnant by her boyfriend Vinnie, she decides that she will have the baby, but not Vinnie as a husband.

This turns the entire neighborhood upside down and starts her on a journey of self-discovery, including a love affair with a man named Noel who she meets at an art museum. Even her best friend Tina has trouble understanding her.

####Angry Angel####
Allison Pyke is an angel who receives smartphone notifications for miracles to perform in exchange for points (the Miracle on the Hudson earns her 70 points). She has been trapped in New York City for nine years trying to earn 10,000 points to be admitted into heaven for having led a life that was "good but not too good" as Megan Dorsey. As part of her cover, she works as a waitress and regularly has sex with her boss James Barker.

Leonard, another angel in New York who competes with her for miracles, tells her she would get more points if she shows initiative, so when she gets a notification to save a college student's computer, she asks the student about his crush and unites him with her. She is awarded over 11,000 points for helping them find true love, and her angel mentor, Jason Biggs, congratulates her personally and tells her she will be transported to heaven by Greyhound Lines.

At the bus station, she finds Patrick Dorsey, her husband from her past life, and his new love Jill, arriving from Nebraska to spend the holidays in New York. Knowing that if she reveals her identity she will lose all her points, she offers to be their tour guide as an excuse to spend time with him before leaving Earth. Despite Jason Biggs warning her of the risk, she invites them to a Christmas party with Barker and his barista Connie.

As she slowly gets drunk on eggnog, it becomes harder for her to hide her jealousy towards Jill. Barker notices and tries to ask her about it. Jason Biggs, watching from the gates of heaven, tries to get her to stop via SMS. She runs from Barker and her phone and tells Patrick the truth. They kiss but are seen by Jill.

Pyke faints and awakens the next day to be told by Jason Biggs she needs to make up her lost points by "cleaning up [her] mess", so she finds Connie, Barker, Jill, and Patrick and tries to apologize to each in turn. Patrick is able to get closure by talking to her and accepts Jill as his new significant other, which allows her to recover all her points.

She travels to heaven with Leonard but keeps watching the miracle requests that appear on her phone. Two weeks after her ascension, she sees a request for Barker, who is about to get crushed by a falling pipe. She steals Gandhi's afterlife car and manages to stop Baker just in time. Before she can let him know it was her, a female French jogger comes check on him, and it is implied he will travel with her to France to fulfil all the dreams he's been holding back on to be with Pyke.

For stealing the car, she is sentenced to 100,000 points, and begins by trying to replicate the Miracle on the Hudson, this time in San Francisco Bay.

####Annie Hall####
Comedian Alvy Singer is trying to understand why his relationship with Annie Hall ended a year ago. Growing up in Brooklyn, he vexed his mother with impossible questions about the emptiness of existence, but he was precocious about his innocent sexual curiosity, suddenly kissing a classmate at six years old and not understanding why she was not keen to reciprocate.

Annie and Alvy, in a line for "The Sorrow and the Pity", overhear another man deriding the work of Federico Fellini and Marshall McLuhan; Alvy imagines McLuhan himself stepping in at his invitation to criticize the man's comprehension. That night, Annie shows no interest in sex with Alvy. Instead, they discuss his first wife, whose ardor gave him no pleasure. His second marriage was to a New York writer who did not like sports and was unable to reach orgasm.

With Annie, it is different. The two of them have fun cooking a meal of boiled lobster together. He teases her about the unusual men in her past. They had met playing tennis doubles with friends. Following the game, awkward small talk leads her to offer him a ride uptown, and then a glass of wine on her balcony. There, what seemed a mild exchange of trivial personal data is revealed in "mental subtitles" as an escalating flirtation. Their first date follows Annie's singing audition for a night club ("It Had to be You"). After their lovemaking that night, Alvy is "a wreck", while Annie relaxes with a joint.

Soon, Annie admits she loves Alvy, while he buys her books on death and says that his feelings for her are more than just love. When Annie moves in with him, things become very tense. Eventually, Alvy finds her arm-in-arm with one of her college professors, and the two begin to argue about whether this is the "flexibility" they had discussed. They eventually break up, and he searches for the truth of relationships, asking strangers on the street about the nature of love, questioning his formative years, and imagining a cartoon version of himself arguing with a cartoon Annie portrayed as the Evil Queen in "Snow White".

Alvy attempts a return to dating, but the effort is marred by neurosis and an episode of bad sex that is interrupted when Annie calls in the middle of the night, insisting that he come over immediately to kill two spiders in her bathroom. A reconciliation follows, coupled with a vow to stay together, come what may. However, their separate discussions with their therapists make it evident there is an unspoken and unbridgeable divide. When Alvy accepts an offer to present an award on television, they travel to Los Angeles with Alvy's friend Rob. However, on the return trip, they agree that their relationship is not working. After losing Annie to her record producer Tony Lacey, Alvy unsuccessfully tries rekindling the flame with a marriage proposal. Back in New York, he stages a play of their relationship, but he changes the ending: now she accepts.

The last meeting between Annie and Alvy is a wistful coda on Manhattan's Upper West Side after they have both moved on to someone new. Alvy's voice returns with a summation: love is essential, especially if it is neurotic. Annie sings "Seems Like Old Times", and the credits roll.

####The Apartment####
C.C. "Bud" Baxter is a lonely office drudge at an insurance corporation in New York City. To climb the corporate ladder, he allows four company managers to take turns borrowing his Upper West Side apartment, 51 West 67th Street, for their extramarital affairs. Baxter meticulously juggles the "booking" schedule, but the steady stream of women convinces his neighbors that he is a playboy.

Baxter solicits glowing performance reviews from the four managers and submits them to personnel director Jeff Sheldrake, who then promises to promote himsndbut Sheldrake also demands use of the apartment for his own affairs, beginning that night. As compensation for this short notice, he gives Baxter two theater tickets for that evening. Bud asks his secret crush, Fran Kubelik, an elevator operator in the office building, to join him. She agrees, but first meets up with a "former fling", who turns out to be Sheldrake. When Sheldrake dissuades her from breaking up with him, promising to divorce his wife, they head to Baxter’s apartment, while Baxter waits outside the theater.

During the company's raucous Christmas party, Sheldrake's secretary, Miss Olsen, tells Fran that her boss has had affairs with other female employees, including herself. Fran confronts Sheldrake at Baxter’s apartment, but he claims he loves her, then heads back to his suburban family.

Realizing that Fran is the woman Sheldrake has been taking to his apartment, Baxter lets himself be picked up by a married lady at a local bar. When they arrive at his apartment, he discovers Fran, passed out on his bed from an apparent suicidal overdose of sleeping pills. He ditches the woman from the bar and enlists Dr. Dreyfuss, a medical doctor living in the next-door apartment, to revive Fran. When Baxter makes Dreyfuss believe that he was the cause of the incident, Dreyfuss scolds him for philandering and advises him to "be a "mensch"."

Fran spends two days recuperating in the apartment, during which a bond develops between them, especially after he confesses to his own suicide attempt over unrequited feelings for a woman who now sends him a fruitcake every Christmas. Fran says she has always suffered bad luck in her love life.

As Baxter prepares a romantic dinner, one of the managers arrives for a tryst. Baxter persuades him and his companion to leave, but the manager recognizes Fran and informs his colleagues. Later confronted by Fran's brother-in-law, Karl Matuschka, who is looking for her, the jealous managers direct Karl to Baxter’s apartment. Baxter deflects the brother's-in-law anger over Fran's wayward behavior by once again assuming all responsibility. Karl punches him, and Fran kisses Baxter for protecting her.

When Sheldrake learns that Miss Olsen tipped off Fran about his affairs, he fires her, but she retaliates by spilling all to Sheldrake's wife, who promptly throws her husband out. With no regrets for his behavior, Sheldrake believes that this situation just makes it easier to pursue Fran, although she hints that she is losing interest. Having promoted Baxter to an even higher position, which also gives him a key to the executive washroom, Sheldrake expects Baxter to loan out his apartment yet again for him and Fran. Baxter gives him back the washroom key instead, proclaiming that he has decided to become a "mensch", and quits the firm, forbidding Sheldrake from ever bringing anyone to his apartment again. He decides to move out of the apartment and begins to pack his belongings.

That night at a New Year's Eve party, Sheldrake indignantly tells Fran about Baxter quitting. Realizing her love for Baxter, Fran abandons Sheldrake and runs to the apartment. At the door, she hears an apparent gunshot. Fearing that Baxter has attempted suicide again, she frantically pounds on the door. Baxter opens the door with a bottle of champagne in his hand, having just popped the cork. As they sit down to a game of cards, Fran reveals that she is on her own, like he is. When he asks about Sheldrake, she replies, "We'll send him a fruitcake every Christmas,” prompting him to declare his love for her. She hands him the cards and affectionately tells him to "Shut up and deal".

####The April Fools####
Wall Street broker Howard Brubaker is married to Phyllis, who does not love him. Catherine is the stunning French wife of an equally uncaring husband, Howard's philandering boss, Ted Gunther.

The evening of the day Ted promotes Howard, Howard attends Ted's house party where Ted urges him to pick up an available woman there and proceeds to show him how. Howard reluctantly tries it on Catherine, who instantly accepts. The two leave the party and go out for a little adventure on the town. Ted is oblivious, as he is concentrating on other women at the party.

The two find their marriages are loveless as they discover more about each other that night and decide to run away together the next evening. However, Ted does not realize the other man is Howard until Howard and Catherine are about to board the plane to Paris.

####The Art of Getting By####
George is a loner high school student with a penchant for drawing and skipping class. He has a nihilistic view of the world which is why he never does homework and skips school frequently. His academic delinquency puts him on academic probation.

One day while on the school roof he encounters another classmate, Sally, smoking. When a teacher appears, George pulls out a cigarette and takes the fall for Sally. They become friends.

On career day, George meets young artist, Dustin, finding him inspiring. He brings Sally with him to visit Dustin at his studio in Brooklyn and it becomes apparent that Dustin finds Sally attractive. She invites George to a New Year's Eve party where she dances with an ex-boyfriend and George gets drunk, goes outside, throws up, and falls asleep in an alley. Finding him there, she takes him to her place, putting him to bed on a pull-out next to her bed. They grow close and George gets more involved in school.

On Valentine's Day, they go out to dinner and Sally starts asking questions about what he thinks of her. George is evasive, and she asks him if he'll have sex with her. George freezes. Sally backtracks and claims she was kidding. He remains withdrawn and leaves early. He refuses to take Sally's calls and avoids her. One day Sally runs into Dustin in the street and after a while the two of them start a relationship. George, troubled by this, stops doing homework and is again sent to the principal's office.

The principal gives George two choices: be expelled, or make up all of the work he has missed all year. Confronted by his mother and stepfather at home, he responds by telling his mother that his stepfather has been lying about work. The stepfather attacks him and George knocks him down before taking off. He goes to Sally's and, in the hallway, kisses her. Sally kisses back but breaks away as Dustin is in her apartment. Angry and hurt, George leaves.

The next morning, George finds his mother in the park and she tells him she's divorcing his stepfather. Consoling her, he begins to rethink his life. He decides to make the effort to do his assignments. His art teacher tells him he wants only one project, but that it must be honest and real. George works on his backwork and takes his final exams. Meanwhile, Sally continues seeing Dustin.

One day George gets a message from Sally. They meet and she tells him she's going backpacking with Dustin through Europe and skipping graduation. He tells her he's in love with her and they go back to her apartment, where they kiss. She tells him she loves him too and promises they'll be together one day. George turns in all his assignments and the principal tells him he'll know he's passed if his name is called at graduation. George's art teacher applauds him on his project.

At graduation, George is with Sally's friends with his mother in the audience. Sally is at the airport with Dustin. George's name is called and his mother applauds. Afterwards George is in the art classroom looking at his art project, the portrait of Sally. She walks in, joining him looking at the painting as the film closes.

####Audrey the Trainwreck####
The film is the story of two people caught in the routines of work and circles of friends. The days begin with an alarm and ends with the fading sound of a television. Ron Hogan, a 28 year old ATM parts purchaser, and Stacy Ryan, a 27 year old, oddly charming courier, meet through a match making Internet service and go through the routine of falling for one another.

####Author! Author!####
Playwright Ivan Travalian has a Broadway play ("English with Tears") in rehearsal and the backers want rewrites. His wife, Gloria, moves out, leaving him with custody of five children: four from her previous marriages and his son. His two stepdaughters and his stepson, Spike, return to their respective fathers, but two of the boys, his biological son Igor and his stepson Geraldo, accompany Ivan.

The stage producer lies to the investors, claiming that popular film actress Alice Detroit has signed on to play the lead on Broadway. Ivan meets with Alice, where she confesses that she is a big fan of his and would love to perform in his new play. They start dating and she eventually moves in with him and the remaining two children. One night, Ivan explains to her that he was an abandoned baby who was adopted by a family with the Armenian name "Travalian". Alice becomes depressed because she misses her former social life, so she and Ivan agree that their relationship has run its course and she moves out.

His two stepdaughters run away from their father's home to live with Ivan and the police come to retrieve them, but Ivan and the children stage a standoff on the roof of their building, convincing the police and their father to let the girls stay. Spike returns to the house with his father’s blessing, meaning all the children can stay with Ivan. Ivan decides that his wife should return as well so he takes a taxi to Gloucester, Massachusetts to retrieve her. He finds her painting on a snowy dock with her new boyfriend, where she resists his efforts to force her to return for the good of the children. Realizing her selfishness, Ivan leaves her in Gloucester, returns to New York City and promises his stepchildren they will always have a home with him. They attend the opening night of the play which receives a rave review in "The New York Times".

####Baby Face Morgan####
With America engaged in fighting World War II, the traditional gangsters have fallen on tough times. 'Doc' Rogers (Robert Armstrong) summons criminals from around the nation for a summit. He proposes that the only way they can regain their former wealth and influence is by uniting under a strong leader. As the now deceased Mob Boss "Big Morgan" was their greatest leader, Rogers, his lieutenant, decides to bring in Morgan's son Edward 'Baby Face' Morgan (Richard Cromwell) to lead the gangsters. Rogers sends two of his loyal but dim-witted henchmen to see whether Edward has the capabilities of his father, and if he does, to bring him back.

Edward, who never knew his father or the life he led, is a small-town delivery boy. The two henchmen misinterpret his account of taking collections and leaving pineapples as proof he uses hand grenades to support his extortion racket and brings him back to Doc. Doc immediately sees that Edward and his cousin Ollie (Chick Chandler) are naive youngsters but decides to use Edward's name as a unifying element. However, Doc ensures that the gangsters never meet Edward nor does Edward meet the criminals or know what business they are in. Doc sets Edward and Ollie up as President and Vice President of one of Big Morgan's shelf corporations called the Acme Protection Agency where the profits of the criminals' extortion rackets are deposited.  Edward and Ollie believe they are running an insurance company staffed with one of Doc's henchmen, his moll and an office full of rabbits that the henchman wants to use to make a fur coat for his moll.  The criminals are told that Big Morgan's brutal son "Baby Face" is running things and they believe Doc's stories of his cruelty.

Doc believes the Federal authorities are occupied with Japanese-Americans and the German American Bund so they will have a free run. The gangsters begin to extort trucking companies and all pay up, except one led by Virginia (Mary Carlisle) who throws the gangster out of her office. They plan revenge by destroying one of her trucks on its run. When Virginia's courage makes the newspapers, Ollie decides that their insurance company can sell policies to the victims of "Baby Face Morgan" though Edward does not realise that he is Baby Face.  When Virginia and Edward meet they fall in love. Virginia buys a large policy, the gangsters destroy the truck and Edward pays off the next day. Edward's prompt payment leads all the other trucking companies to purchase policies from Acme Protection and challenge the gangsters to destroy their old vehicles when they refuse to pay the extortion.

It does not take long before the Mob comes looking for their profits that have been recycled back to the trucking companies. "Baby Face" takes a crash course in acting as a tough guy.

####Bandits####
Two friends and convicts, Joe and Terry, break out of Oregon State Penitentiary in a concrete mixing truck and start a bank robbing spree, hoping to fund a dream they share. They become known as the "Sleepover Bandits" because of their "modus operandi": they kidnap the manager of a target bank the night before a planned robbery, then spend the night with the manager's family; early the next morning, they accompany the manager to the bank to get their money. Using dim-witted would-be stunt man Harvey Pollard as their getaway driver and lookout, the three successfully pull off a series of robberies that gets them recognition on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted list, and ultimately the reward for information leading to their capture is increased to $1 million.

When Kate, a housewife with a failing marriage, decides to run away, she ends up in the hands of the criminals. Initially attracted to Joe, she also ends up in bed with Terry and a confused love triangle begins.

The three of them go on the lam and manage to pull off a few more robberies, but after a while the two begin to fight over Kate, and she decides to leave them. The two criminals then decide to pull off one last job.

The story is told in flashbacks, framed by the story of the pair's last robbery of the Alamo Bank, as told by "Criminals at Large", a fictional reality television show, with which they taped an interview stating that Kate was only a hostage, not a participant. The show tells the story of their last job, which is known to be a failure when Kate tips off the police and the two are caught in the act. The two then begin to argue when Joe tells the police "You won't take us alive!" and the argument gets to the point where the two of them shoot each other dead.

At the end of the film the real story behind the last job is revealed: Harvey used some of his special effects to make it seem as though Terry and Joe were shooting each other. Dressed as paramedics, Harvey and his girlfriend Claire then run in and place the stolen money, Terry, and Joe in body bags while Kate (who was in on the plan) distracts the police by pretending to pass out in shock upon seeing the "bodies." In the ambulance, Harvey used electronics to blow out his tires which sent the ambulance into a junkyard. Under his jumpsuit, Harvey was wearing a fire suit. He lit himself on fire and rigged a bomb to go off. Harvey, Claire, Terry, and Joe flee the scene, leading officials to believe that the bodies were burned beyond recognition. Kate receives the $1 million reward for having turned them in.

Reunited, Joe, Terry, Harvey, and Kate make it to Mexico to live out their dream. The last scene shows Harvey and Claire getting married in Mexico and Kate kissing Joe and Terry passionately.

####Barcelona####
The main character in "Barcelona" is a Chicago salesman named Ted Boynton, who lives and works in the eponymous Spanish city in 1987. Ted's cousin, Fred, a naval officer, unexpectedly comes to stay with Ted at the beginning of the film. Fred has been sent to Barcelona to handle public relations on behalf of a U.S. fleet scheduled to arrive later.

The cousins have a history of conflict since childhood, to which the film refers several times. Ted and Fred develop relationships with various single women in Barcelona and experience the negative reactions of some of the community's residents to the context of Fred's presence. Ted also faces possible problems with his American employer and with the concept of attraction to physical beauty.

####Barefoot####
Jay Wheeler, the "black sheep" son of a rich family, works as a janitor at a Los Angeles, California psychiatric hospital as part of his probation. While walking through the hospital one night he overhears another janitor, Frakel, telling a patient that he's a doctor in order to rape her. After hearing this, Jay knocks out Frakel and tells the patient, Daisy Kensington, to go back to bed. Daisy, having been admitted to the hospital after being raised in isolation and being barefoot all her life, decides to follow Jay out of the hospital.

Rather than send Daisy back, Jay brings her home for his brother's wedding in New Orleans, Louisiana to convince his family that he has straightened out his life. While she impresses them with her genuine, if unstable, charm, she also admits to Jay that she was in the hospital for killing her mother. While at the wedding Jay's father, suspecting that something is amiss, presses her for information, causing Daisy to have a panic attack. As Jay gets her into a cab, surrounded by his family, he tells them the truth about his job, only having come home to get money to pay back a loan shark. When Jay and Daisy return to his parents' house they search through his father's cars for keys and find a set in a classic RV, in which they set out for home. Despite getting along while driving Jay leaves Daisy at a bus station in Shreveport, Louisiana, intending to abandon her, but ends up having a change of heart and goes back for her.

Their journey becomes a fun adventure, despite the fact that they are both being hunted; Daisy for escaping the hospital and Jay for taking her and violating his probation. As Jay is the only one who can drive, they pull over so he can sleep. During the night Daisy wakes him up due to a cop having pulled up behind. While Jay hides in the cupboard Daisy tells the cop that her boyfriend, "Beaver," ran away when he saw the flashing lights. The cop tells her that his father's name was Beaver, before proceeding to check the RV. After checking the bathroom, which smells bad because they can't flush it, he leaves and walks into the bush on the side of the road to find "Beaver." While the cop is distracted Daisy throws away the keys to his car, so that she and Jay can escape, causing Jay to see her in a different light. A few nights later they go to a carnival, which Daisy has never been to before, claiming that it is "the best day of her life."

Later when they make a stopover, Jay makes a phone call to Dr. Bertleman, the doctor who was handling Daisy. She then overhears him say that he is going to take her back to Los Angeles only to bring her back to the psychiatric hospital. She runs away crying to the RV alone and attempts to drive away before Jay can get to her. As she only knows the basics that Jay taught her, she ends up driving around the parking lot in circles before crashing the RV. As Jay opens the door, she climbs out crying, as other people come to check on them. Jay then hurries them both into a diner. Jay, curious about Daisy, not truly believing she's schizophrenic as her doctor believes, asks her about whether the voices told her to kill her mother. Daisy tells him that it wasn't her who heard voices, but her mother. Her mother was screaming one night but Daisy didn't go to her, and when she woke up in the morning her mother was dead, causing Daisy to believe that she killed her mother. As Jay vehemently tells Daisy that she didn't kill her mother, a group of cop cars show up at the diner to arrest Jay and Daisy, assuming that one of the bystanders to the crash called them. As Jay kisses Daisy, the cops come into the diner and handcuff Jay.

When Jay's mother finds out he's in jail, she persuades his father to bail him out, which he does. When Jay returns to his apartment, he finds the door smashed open and his belongings torn apart. Glancing out the window he sees one of the loan shark's goons waiting for him outside, just as the loan shark looks up and sees him. After fleeing his apartment complex, Jay goes to the psychiatric hospital to see Daisy, but the security and Dr. Bertleman tell him to leave.

Desperate, Jay goes to the train station and lies down on the tracks, so that he'll be deemed suicidal and be taken to the psychiatric hospital. Dr. Bertleman, knowing that Jay is fine and that it was just a ruse, dismisses Jay, but after Jay insists that he is suicidal, the doctor puts him in solitary confinement. Before Jay is taken away, he tells the doctor that it wasn't Daisy who heard voices but her mother. While at the hospital, another patient gives Jay information on Daisy's well-being and confirms that they're being kept apart.

That night Frakel sneaks the loan shark's goon into the hospital, where he then goes and strangles Jay using a chain. As Jay is struggling to get him off, the patient who was giving him information takes out the goon by hitting him in the head with a broom. After this Jay wakes up in the hospital, where Dr. Bertleman apologizes to Jay about Frakel and tells him he was right about Daisy's mother, who was schizophrenic. Dr. Bertleman then decides to release them both from the hospital. Before Jay goes to meet Daisy, he gets a letter from his father, which contains a $40,000 check to pay off his debts. Jay then meets Daisy at the hospital entrance, where they hug and kiss before leaving together, hand in hand.

As the credits start to roll, the last scene shows Daisy and Jay riding a merry-go-round.

####Barry Munday####
Barry Munday (Patrick Wilson), a lonely womanizer, wakes up after being attacked to realize that he's missing his "family jewels". To make matters worse, he learns he's facing a paternity lawsuit filed by a woman, Ginger (Judy Greer), he can't remember having sex with. Though unintentional, the two discover that their meeting and subsequent "accidents" opened up new opportunities for personal growth and relationships.

####The Battle of Shaker Heights####
Kelly Ernswiler, a young war reenactment enthusiast, works at his local store with love interest Sarah and Bart Bowland. Kelly's father, Abe, works with drug addicts, being clean himself for over five years. His mother, Eve, is a commercial artist.

Kelly attempts to woo Bart's older sister, Tabby, even though she's set to marry Miner Weber, a handsome businessman. Kelly becomes a regular at Bart's house, being over for dinner often, and he impresses Bart's father, Harrison, with their common fondness for war memorabilia, and Bart's mother by complimenting her on her flowers, and he often talks to Tabby in her workshop. During this time, Sarah asks him to go to an Aerosmith concert, which she has a spare ticket for, telling him it would be good for him to get out more. When he bluntly makes it clear that he knows it would be a date, he tells her he is seeing someone else, obviously meaning Tabby. Before Kelly and Bart perform their plan for Lance's humiliation, Bart makes it clear to Kelly that he knows he has "his own agenda", at which Kelly is insulted and angry, and Bart displaces it as "pre-mission nervous energy". They recreate an invasion on the street where Lance lives and drag him out of the house pointing guns at him and shouting at him with German accents. They videotape the whole thing and he urinates out of fear.

Afterwards, the boys are drinking whiskey at Bart's house and Bart passes out in a chair by the fire. Kelly makes to go home and goes to the workshop to say goodbye to Tabby. He walks in on her crying, as she now thinks the marriage will be off and goes to comfort her, and they kiss. As Kelly is leaving, Bart sees him and is furious as he knew he was in the workshop. The next day, as Kelly is on a set for a war program that Bart got them in, Bart hasn't turned up. Kelly is cast in a role to be a jeep driver and when his cue is called, Bart turns up out of the bushes and confronts him about Tabby. Kelly denies it at first and then becomes speechless. As he is about to drive for his cue, Bart attacks him in the jeep and they make a mess of the set.

The next day, Abe is taken into care again for relapsing and Kelly is emotionless. He goes to the wedding the same day, only to have an annoyed Bart tell him that he can't let him in. He sneaks into Tabby's limo before it pulls in and he talks to her, and it is a moment in which he finally realizes he must grow up. He gets out of the car and everyone at the wedding sees him and are all confused. He goes round the back of the church to get his bike and leave and meets Minor again, who has no idea of what happened with Kelly and Tabby, and is civil towards him. Kelly cycles to the clinic where his father is staying and is surprised. They begin to watch television and his mother walks in and is surprised and happy to see Kelly.

In the end, it shows the voicemail message where Kelly apologizes to the Bowlands for his behavior and asks Bart if he will meet him where he will be selling all his old memorabilia, and gives a hat Bart acquired for him back. He is shown walking down the street with Sarah and they hold hands. Kelly sees Lance again on his lawn where they faked the invasion, and goes over to him and confesses, only to be punched in the jaw. The film ends with Kelly lying on the lawn, holding his bruised jaw saying, "I deserved it".

####Beautiful Girls####
New York jazz pianist Willie returns to his hometown of Knight's Ridge, Massachusetts for his ten-year high school reunion, staying with his widower father and younger brother.

Willie reunites with three old friends: Mo is a successful family man, while Paul and Tommy, who own a snowplowing business, are each having relationship issues. Paul was recently dumped by his longtime girlfriend Jan because he refused her ultimatum of marriage. Believing that she is now seeing Victor the meat cutter, he vindictively blocks her driveway with snow every night. Tommy is cheating on his girlfriend Sharon with his married high school sweetheart Darian.

Willie meets 13 year-old neighbor girl Marty, and they strike up a witty rapport. She presses him about his relationship: he has been with his girlfriend Tracy for a year, but is unsure if he wants to marry her. He is considering taking a steady job as a salesman, but Mo urges him not to quit his music.

Paul desperately proposes to Jan, but she turns him down. Sharon argues with Tommy about his infidelity, and seeks advice from her girlfriends. The outspoken Gina advises her to break up with Tommy, but Sharon tries to salvage the relationship by planning him a surprise birthday party.

When the attractive Andera comes to town from Chicago, the guys compete for her attention. The next day, Gina lectures Willie and Tommy about men's unrealistic expectations of women set by supermodels and pornography. Willie feels jealous when he sees that Marty has a boyfriend.

Darian shows up at Tommy's surprise party drunk and openly tries to seduce him, causing Sharon to leave, heartbroken. Tommy drives Darian home but refuses her advances, and unsuccessfully tries to patch things up with Sharon. Willie tells Mo about his feelings for Marty, but is reminded how young she is and says that he just doesn't want to grow up.

Willie again encounters Marty, who says that she has broken up with her boyfriend because she is interested in him, asking him to wait five years until she is 18 and they can be together. Willie declines, saying that she will outgrow her feelings for him as she matures.

Paul takes Andera out, trying to make Jan jealous. Andera plays along, but when Paul tries to kiss her she smacks him and leaves. Willie chastises Paul about his obsession with supermodels; he responds that beautiful girls represent hope and promise. Tommy breaks things off with Darian, but she states her intent to win him back at the reunion.

Andera approaches Willie, turning down his flirtations but accompanying him to Paul's ice shanty, where they discuss their respective relationships. He misses the emotional rush of new love, but she feels truly happy with her boyfriend and returns to Chicago the next day. Tracy arrives from New York, and Willie's feelings for her are rekindled. Marty is downhearted by this, but Willie assures her that she will grow up to do amazing things.

At the reunion, Darian is confronted by a former classmate who she bullied; he tells her that she was beautiful, but "mean as a snake". Tommy skips the reunion to avoid Darian, but encounters her husband Steve and his friends at a bar. Steve reveals he knows about the affair; a fight ensues, and Tommy is badly beaten. Learning of this, the guys rush to Steve's house to confront him. Steve calls his friends, but Willie pushes their car into a snowbank using Paul's snowplow. Mo is about to beat Steve up, but stops when Steve's daughter comes to the door. Darian arrives home in the aftermath of the confrontation. Tommy ends up in the hospital with a concussion and two broken ribs. Sharon stays with him overnight, and they make up. Paul, overcome with emotion, clears Jan's driveway of snow.

Willie says his goodbyes the next day, having decided to head back to New York with Tracy and not take the sales job. Paul announces that Jan and Victor are engaged. Willie introduces Tracy to Marty, and kisses Marty on the cheek before departing.

####Beautiful Joe####
Joe (Billy Connolly) is a regular guy who runs a flower shop in the Bronx and has never had much in the way of good luck. Things seem to be grim for Joe when he's diagnosed with a brain tumor. He's told he must have an operation soon, within the next two weeks.

Joe goes home early, catching his wife in bed with another man, and she declares she wants a divorce as he's too boring. After saying his goodbyes to his fellow Irishman father-in-law, he hops in his van, seeking adventure.

At a pawn shop, Hush (Sharon Stone), tries to get money for a ring to bet on horses. She needs to pay back a sizeable debt to her bookie. A bit of good fortune appears on Joe's horizon when he wins a 15,000 jackpot at the race track. However Hush, a stripper, sees his big payout, she tries to steal Joe's newly won fortune to pay them off. He signs over the check to nuns for charity.

Later, Joe wanders into a mud wrestling bar where Hush emcees and she convinces him to do it. While he's in the pit, Hush takes his wallet. She gives it to her bookie's henchman, and Joe is in time to scare him off. He gives her a lift home and lets him stay.

The next morning, Joe meets Hush's son and daughter Lee and Vivian, and gets some things from the supermarket to make them breakfast. When Hush gets up, she's initially hostile, but later takes him to the Geek. Joe gets his money back by explaining to the gangsters what happened, but only because they mistake him for Beautiful Joe, the syndicate kingpin they've heard about but never met.

When the gangsters discover that Joe is a florist and not a career criminal, they find the situation less than amusing. Holding Hush and the kids hostage, the Geek and his thugs leave but her ex Elton stays. Vivian goes to the bathroom. He came back, concerned about them. They lock Elton in the bathroom, and head out on the road.

Joe sleeps in his van, and the others a motel room. That night, Joe tells Hush about his   impending brain cancer surgery. The next day she leaves them in a park while she goes to Leavenworth to see Vivian's dad. That night, she shares this with Joe and tells him her real name, Alice.

On the road, they stop for horseback riding, and Joe falls down for a moment from a severe headache. That night, Joe takes Alice to dinner and dancing. There, she has altercation with a drunk, which Joe diffuses. Back at the room, they are intimate.

Reaching Vegas, Joe spends time with the kids, while Alice loses the money he gave her. Obsessed, she steals from his wallet again while they are at a show. She goes bust, and then the thugs, led by Elton, catch up to her.

Joe makes a trade, him for Alice. He sends her off with the kids, agreeing on a meeting place and time. The real beautiful Joe appears, his friend Happy. Joe discovers that his father-in-law is head of the whole syndicate.

Joe meets with the family in San Francisco, and then flies home for the operation. As the family gets in the van, Lee bursts out speaking, ashamed of his mom for her taste in men. Joe goes into the operation alone, but Alice and the kids are there to welcome him back.

####Beauty's Worth####
As described in a film magazine, Prudence Cole (Davies), a young Quaker woman, has been raised by her two severe maiden aunts, Elizabeth (Mattox) and Cynthia Whitney (Manning). She is permitted to visit the Garrisons, the mother (Shattuck) and her grown son Henry (Cooley), at an ultra fashionable resort, where her precise mannerisms make her the center of amused attention. Henry, whom she had hoped to marry, all but ignores her. Artist and thinker Cheyne Rovein (Stanley) senses the young woman's position and selects her for the leading role in elaborate charades which he stages, designing costumes and coaching her as to conduct. On this night she outshines her critics, wins the admiration of the men and the enmity of the women, and the dallying Henry returns to pay her court. The following morning she refuses him and promises to marry Cheyne.

####Beginners####
(Throughout the film, scenes of Oliver Fields' memories of his deceased parents are intercut, as flashbacks, into the narrative of his developing relationship with Anna Wallace.)

In Los Angeles in 2003, a few months after the death of his father, Hal, from lung cancer, 38-year-old graphic designer Oliver often thinks about his relationship with Hal near the end of his life. Hal had come out to Oliver six months after Georgia, Hal's wife of 44 years and Oliver's mother, died of cancer, and explored life as an openly gay man from the age of 75 until he died four years later. He got active in the local gay community, found love with a much-younger man named Andy, and became closer to Oliver than he had been previously. Oliver helped Hal during his cancer treatments, and he noted the grace, good humor, and, sometimes, seeming-denial with which Hal faced his fate.

Hal and Georgia had known each other since high school, and eventually she asked him to marry her, saying she could "fix" his homosexuality. He saw a psychiatrist for a time and they were married until her death, but they always had a fairly cool relationship, and Oliver recalls his childhood with an unfulfilled, but loving, Georgia, while Hal, a museum director, was often absent, both physically and emotionally. Not wanting to end up like his parents, Oliver never settled for a passionless relationship, which has left him with only Hal's Jack Russell Terrier, Arthur, who does not like to be left alone, for company.

Oliver's work friends get him to go to a costume party, where he meets Anna, a French actress. Although she communicates by writing messages because she has laryngitis and temporarily cannot speak, they instantly connect. They go back to Anna's hotel room, where Oliver tells her about his parents, and they kiss, but then Anna asks if they can just go to sleep, and Oliver agrees. The next day, Anna has to go to New York for an audition, but she says she wants to see Oliver when she gets back. Inspired by his father's attitude towards the end of his life, Oliver decides to pursue a romance with Anna.

When Anna returns, she and Oliver see a lot of each other and fall in love. Eventually, he asks her to move in with him, and she does, but Anna, who left home when she was 16 and has a strained relationship with her depressive father and, like Oliver, is the one who has ended all of her serious romantic relationships, never unpacks her suitcase, which bothers Oliver. Things become awkward between them, as neither knows how to build a life with someone else, and, after a short time, Oliver says living together does not feel right, and Anna decides to move back to New York City.

Before long, Oliver misses Anna, but she does not answer his calls, so he drops Arthur off with Andy and flies to New York to talk to her. He calls her again from outside her apartment and she answers, and it turns out she never left Los Angeles. When Oliver gets home, Anna comes over, and, though they do not know what will happen next, they both seem optimistic about their future together.

####Behind the Candelabra####
In 1977, 18-year-old Scott Thorson, who works as an animal trainer for films, meets Bob Black, a Hollywood producer, in a gay bar in Los Angeles.  At Black's urging, he leaves his adopted home in search of better-paying work.  Black introduces Thorson to Liberace, who takes an immediate liking to the handsome younger man.  Liberace invites the two backstage and then to his luxurious home in Las Vegas.

Thorson observes that one of Liberace's beloved dogs has a temporary form of blindness, and with his veterinary assistant background, informs the famous pianist that he knows how to cure the condition.  After treating the dog, Thorson becomes Liberace's "assistant" at the performer's request. Thorson also becomes employed as Liberace's stage chauffeur, driving a Rolls-Royce limousine onto the stage for Liberace's grand entrances.

Thorson moves in with Liberace and becomes his lover.  At this point, Thorson says that he is bisexual because he is also attracted to women.  Liberace is sympathetic, informing him that he wanted and tried to love women, but was exclusively attracted to men.  He relates a story of a "divine healing" in which a "messenger" informed him that God still loved him.

It gradually becomes clear that Liberace is trying to mold Thorson into a younger version of himself.  He asks his plastic surgeon, Dr. Jack Startz, to transform Scott's face to more closely resemble his own and makes an unsuccessful attempt to formally adopt him.  Thorson soon turns to drugs as he becomes angrier and more frustrated with Liberace trying to control him as well as Liberace's obsession to publicly hide their romance at any cost.

By 1982, Thorson's increasing drug abuse and Liberace's interest in younger men, including dancer Cary James, creates a rift that ultimately destroys their relationship.  When Liberace begins visiting pornographic peep shows and suggests that they each see other people, Thorson becomes upset.

Scott Thorson retains an attorney to seek his financial share of the property by suing Liberace for over $100,000,000 in palimony.  As a result, Liberace ends their formal partnership and involves himself with his most recent, and much younger, "assistant".  In 1984, Thorson's palimony lawsuit starts where he gives details about his romance for five years with the entertainer, while Liberace flatly denies any sexual relationship.

Not long thereafter, in December 1986, Thorson receives a telephone call from Liberace telling him that he is very ill with what is later revealed to be AIDS and that he would like Thorson to visit him again.  Thorson agrees and drives to Liberace's retreat house in Palm Springs, where he and Liberace have one last, emotional conversation. Liberace dies a few months later in February 1987.  Thorson attends Liberace's funeral, in which he imagines seeing Liberace performing one last time with his traditional flamboyance, before being lifted to Heaven with a stage harness.

####Being Julia####
In 1938 London, the highly successful and popular theater actress Julia Lambert is growing disillusioned with her career as she approaches middle age, prompting her to ask her husband, stage director Michael Gosselyn, and his financial backer Dolly de Vries to close her current production to allow her time to travel abroad. They persuade her to remain with the play throughout the summer. Always hovering in the background and offering counsel is the spirit of her mentor, Jimmie Langton, the theatrical manager who gave Julia her start and made her a star. Julia confesses to Evie, her personal maid, dresser and confidante, that she would love to let herself go and retire so she can stop eating salad and drink as much beer as she likes.

Michael introduces her to Tom Fennel, an enterprising American, who confesses his deep appreciation of her work. Though she loves her husband, Julia misses the passion they once had, and is anxious to fill the void left by her former lover, Lord Charles, who has recently broken off their relationship.

Julia embarks on a passionate affair with the young man and begins to support him so he may enjoy the glamorous lifestyle to which she has introduced him. Their relationship revives her, sparking a distinct change in her personality.

Michael suggests they invite Tom to spend time at their country estate, where he can become better acquainted with their son, Roger, who is only slightly younger. At a party there, Tom meets aspiring actress Avice Crichton, and, when Julia sees him flirting with the pretty young woman, she becomes jealous and anxious and angrily confronts him. He slowly reveals himself to be a callous, social-climbing, gold-digging gigolo, but Julia is reluctant to end the affair.

Avice, now romantically involved with Tom, asks him to bring Julia to see her perform in a play in the hope the actress will induce her husband to cast her in a supporting role in Julia's upcoming project. The play is dreadful, and Avice is not much better. Backstage, Julia compliments her even-worse co-star and barely acknowledges Avice, although she promises to tell Michael about her. Afterwards, she forces Tom to admit he loves Avice and she is heartbroken when he does, then tells Julia he is "fond" of her. She pretends to be gracious as their affair ends, and she assures him she will insist the ingenue be cast in her next play.

When Julia's performance in her current play begins to suffer from her personal discontent, Michael closes the production, so Julia visits her mother and her Aunt Carrie in Jersey, where Lord Charles comes to visit her. Julia suggests a romantic tryst, and he gently tells her that he's gay. The two share a laugh and agree to remain close friends. Meanwhile, back in London, Avice auditions for Michael and is cast in a key supporting role.

Julia returns home to begin rehearsals for the new play. Shortly after, she learns from her son that Avice has been one of Michael's casual trysts. Still, she is uncharacteristically solicitous toward the girl, making suggestions that place her in the spotlight and insisting her own wardrobe be drab to allow Avice to shine.

On opening night, Julia waits for a crucial scene with only she and Avice, then discards her drab wardrobe and appears onstage in an extravagant ensemble. She improvises her lines and movements on the stage, confusing and embarrassing Avice, who soon realizes that is Julia's intention and quickly recovers, even garnering laughter and applause from the audience. Julia then improvises a dramatic, comedic speech in which her character confronts Avice's for pursuing affairs with both "Ben" (Tom) and "Sir Phillip" (Michael), then demands she choose between them. Avice is stunned and left on stage weeping and defeated by Julia as she triumphantly ends her monologue and leaves the stage to enthusiastic applause.

Afterward, Michael confronts Julia and tells her she was magnificent. They embrace happily. Michael then visits Avice, who is throwing a tantrum in her dressing room, cursing Julia's name, and tells her that they're going to add Julia's ending to the play, then reminds her that she's just signed a contract for several weeks of performances. Tom, unsettled by Avice's screaming, quietly slips out.

Instead of attending the opening night party, Julia goes to her favorite restaurant, declaring she wants to dine "quite alone" and gleefully enjoys a glass of beer.

####Bend It Like Beckham####
Jesminder "Jess" Bhamra is the daughter of British Indian Punjabi  Sikhs living in Hounslow, London. Jess is infatuated with football, but her parents do not support her interest. However, she sometimes plays in the park with boys, including her best friend, Tony, who is gay although her family thinks he has his eye on her. Her family is occupied with planning for Jess's sister Pinky's imminent wedding.

Jules Paxton, a member of the Hounslow Harriers, a local women's amateur football team, notices Jess's football skills, befriends her, and invites her to try out for the team. The coach, Joe—a young Irish former player whose own career was derailed by injuries—accepts her onto the team. Although Jess's parents (mainly her mother) forbid her to join the team, she plays behind their backs, claiming to have a part-time job when she is actually at football practice. When he learns that Jess is on the team without her parents' permission, Joe pleads with Mr. Bhamra to allow Jess to play, but he refuses, revealing that he does not want Jess to suffer the way he did when he was excluded from a cricket club because of anti-Indian sentiment.

With Pinky covering for her, Jess travels with the team to play a match in Germany; the Harriers lose the match after Jess fails to score on a penalty kick. When they go out clubbing in Hamburg after the match, Jules catches Joe and Jess about to kiss. This sours the two girls' friendship, as Jules also is attracted to Joe despite denying fancying him when Jess asked her earlier. Furthermore, Jess's parents find out she is still on the team by seeing a newspaper article about the Hamburg match. After returning, Jess goes to Jules's house to try to patch up their friendship, but Jules's mother, confused by overhearing only parts of an argument, thinks they are hiding a lesbian relationship.

Jess's father secretly attends one of her games, and sees Jess mocked with a racial slur by an opposing player, and Joe hugging her afterward to comfort her. The Harriers qualify for the finals of the league tournament, but the championship match—with an American talent scout in attendance—is to be held on the same day as Pinky's wedding, so Jess resigns herself to missing the game. At Pinky's wedding Jess is visibly miserable; her father tells her to go to the game so she can be happy on her sister's wedding day. The Harriers are behind 1–0 when Jess arrives, but they rally, and eventually Jess wins the game with a free kick. The scout offers Jess and Jules sports scholarships at Santa Clara University in California. Jules and Jess share a hug and kiss to celebrate, furthering Jules's mother's suspicions. Jess returns to the wedding, now able to celebrate. Jules's mother gives Jules a ride to the wedding as well, but when they arrive, Mrs. Paxton accuses Jess of being a hypocrite and a lesbian. Jules drags her mother away, angrily clarifying her relationship with Jess.

Later that day, Jess has still not told her parents about the scholarship; she is afraid they might not allow her to go to the United States on her own. Tony, out of friendship for Jess, decides to lie to the family and tell them he is engaged to Jess as long as she gets to go to any college she wants. The Bhamras happily accept, but Jess immediately confesses the truth. Jess's mother ignores Jess's heartfelt speech and scolds Jess's father for letting Jess leave Pinky's wedding. But her father announces he doesn't want Jess to suffer as he did, and accepts her desire to play football. Jess runs to the football field to tell Joe of her parents' decision. The two almost kiss, but Jess pulls away, saying her parents would object, and that although they had come far enough to let her go to America to play, she doesn't think they would be able to handle another cultural rebellion from her.

On the day of Jess and Jules's flight to America, the two are about to board the plane when Joe arrives and confesses his love for Jess. The two kiss and Jess agrees to sort out their relationship (and her parents) when she returns for Christmas. While at the airport, they see David Beckham with his wife Victoria, which Jules takes as a sign. Then the two leave through the gate giving happy waves to their families.

While Jess and Jules are away, Mr and Mrs. Paxton patch up their relationship, Pinky becomes pregnant and Mr. Bhamra gets back into playing cricket with Joe.

####Benny & Joon####
Benjamin "Benny" Pearl and his mentally ill sister Juniper ("Joon") live together following the accidental death of their parents. Joon joins a poker game at a friend's house and loses a bet that commits Sam, the eccentric cousin of Benny's buddy Mike, to live with the Pearls. Benny is initially angry, but after an evening with Sam at the local diner and then coming home the next day to find Sam has cleaned the house, Benny decides Sam should stay.

Joon aids Sam (who is illiterate) when he is struggling with writing to his mother, and the two go to the local diner where Ruthie is working. She takes them on an errand, and then takes them home. After Ruthie stays for dinner, her car won't start, and Benny drives her home, where they set a dinner date. Meanwhile, left alone, Joon and Sam kiss. Benny and Ruthie have a fun date, but Benny abruptly ends it because he wants to get home to Joon. Sam goes to a video store to try to apply for a job there. Benny, Joon, and Sam go to a park, where Sam starts doing tricks with his hat, attracting an appreciative crowd. Benny stays at the park to reflect and sends Joon home with Sam, where they make love. Sam then tells Joon he loves her, which Joon reciprocates.

When Benny makes suggestions to Sam about his comedy routines, Joon becomes agitated and makes Sam explain that he and Joon are romantically involved. An angry Benny throws Sam out, yells at Joon, and shows her a pamphlet about a group home that would be a better home for her. Joon starts hitting Benny and screaming, and he pushes her away. Feeling bad, Benny leaves to get her some pudding. While Benny is away, Sam arrives. They pack suitcases and get on a bus, but Joon soon begins to hear voices in her head and argues with them, in great distress. Sam tries to soothe her, but she becomes more agitated. The bus is stopped, and two paramedics restrain Joon. When Benny arrives at the hospital, the doctor tells him Joon does not want to see him. He finds Sam in the waiting room, and they argue. Sam goes to stay with Ruthie. Meanwhile, Benny begins to feel guilty about his treatment of Joon.

Benny finds Sam, now working at the video store, and asks for his help. They go to the hospital. Benny apologizes to Joon, persuades her to consider getting her own apartment, and tells her that Sam has come back for her. Joon tells the doctor that she would like to try living in her own apartment. The siblings reconcile and Sam and Joon are reunited. Later, Benny brings roses to Ruthie. He takes another bouquet to Joon's apartment but leaves the flowers in the doorway when he sees Sam and Joon are busy making grilled cheese sandwiches with a clothing iron.

####Best Friends####
Richard Babson and Paula McCullen are a couple of Hollywood screenwriters who have lived and worked together for a number of years. Richard would like to get married, but Paula does not feel the need.

Having just written a film script for producer Larry Weissman, the couple decides to get married without letting anyone else know. Paula can tell it is important to Richard, so she reluctantly agrees.

They are wed in a Los Angeles marriage bureau by a man named Jorge Medina in heavily accented English, making for a comical moment. For a honeymoon trip, they travel cross-country by train to inform their parents back East about what they have done.

The first stop is Buffalo, New York, where they are met in a winter wonderland by Paula's parents. Eleanor and Tim McCullen are old-fashioned, so Paula informs Richard that they will need to sleep in separate beds. Richard isn't happy about being treated like a child or about the frigid climate and the constantly open window.

From there they go to Virginia to visit Richard's parents, who reside in a giant high-rise condominium. No window is ever opened there, and Paula, feeling increasing panic attacks, is in dire need of some fresh air. She also accidentally overdoses on Valium and goes face-first into a salad at lunch.

The Babsons excitedly believe that Paula and Richard are engaged but devastated to learn that they are  married. They throw a party at a restaurant, where Paula is upset by the comments of guests.

She and Richard are barely on speaking terms when Larry Weissman shows up, desperate for pages of a script rewrite. Paula insists that they return home to California immediately, but once there, their personal and professional relationship has soured.

Larry locks them in a room, where the writers bicker and get no work done. Paula again demands fresh air until Richard breaks a window. When they finally talk it through, they are in agreement that getting married might not have been the best idea. They finish the rewrite and then walk off into the sunset, which turns out to be a Hollywood prop.

####The Best Man####
In Chicago, Harper Stewart is an up-and-coming author whose debut novel, "Unfinished Business", has been selected by Oprah's Book Club. Harper's devoted girlfriend Robyn is frustrated by his unwillingness to commit to her.

Harper travels to New York City to spend the weekend with old friends from college, before they all attend the wedding of Lance Sullivan, a running back for the New York Giants, and Mia Morgan. Serving as best man, Harper reunites with his friends Julian "Murch" Murchison and Jordan Armstrong, who has passed an advance copy of "Unfinished Business" around their inner circle of friends – upon whom the book is based.

None of the friends approve of Murch's domineering girlfriend Shelby, and Harper chastises Quentin Spivey for being unable to settle down in a job. The weekend reveals that Quentin has always been a free spirit, Lance has renounced his womanizing behavior, Harper is unsure about remaining a bachelor, and Murch has never been able to keep a secret. Flashbacks to their college days reveal that Lance met Mia through Harper, who almost slept with Jordan. Quentin antagonizes Lance about Mia, whom Lance believes has never been with another man. Learning Lance has a copy of his book, Harper worries he will discover that Harper and Mia had a one-night stand in college.

Confronting Harper about their mutual attraction, Jordan admits she wants to have sex with him that night, before Robyn arrives for the wedding the next day, and they share a kiss. Lance confronts Harper in the bathroom, but merely thanks him for his friendship; they are interrupted before Harper can come clean. As the groomsmen depart for the bachelor party, Jordan invites Harper to meet her later, and Murch finally stands up to Shelby.

At the party, Harper steals Lance's copy of "Unfinished Business", to the disgust of Quentin, who has deduced Harper's secret. As the party gets increasingly drunk, Murch falls for one of the strippers, Candy, and Harper calls Jordan, accepting her invitation. Finding the book in Harper's coat, Lance reads it and finds out the truth, realizing that Mia slept with Harper in college to get back at him for his numerous infidelities. Enraged, he attacks Harper for his betrayal and almost throws him off the balcony, but Quentin talks him down, and Lance calls off the wedding.

A badly beaten Harper arrives at Jordan's apartment. He blames her for circulating the book, but she berates him for airing his own dirty laundry and leading her on. The next day, Harper meets Robyn at the airport. She notices his injuries, and he confesses. Disappointed, Robyn prepares to leave, but Harper declares how much he needs her, and she reluctantly agrees to help him save the wedding.

Arriving at the church with Candy, Murch breaks up with Shelby. Lance arrives, and his friends try desperately to stop him before he can tell his parents the wedding is off. Harper – who doesn't share Lance's religious devotion – halts him by asking him to pray. While Robyn and Jordan tend to Mia, who is oblivious to the previous night's events, Harper reasons with Lance after much difficulty and assures him of his and Mia's love. After forcing Harper to pray with him, a tearful Lance proceeds with the wedding.

Harper gives a heartfelt speech praising Mia and Lance's love that visibly moves the couple, earning Lance's forgiveness. Shelby pushes a bridesmaid out of the way to seize the bouquet, while Quentin catches the garter. Jordan finds closure with Harper, telling him Robyn is the woman for him. On the dance floor, Harper thanks Robyn for her help and, in front of the entire wedding party, asks her to marry him; she says yes. The film ends as everyone dances the electric slide to the song "Candy" by Cameo.

In a post-credit scene, Shelby and Quentin wake up in bed together, to their shock and disgust.

####Beware the Gonzo####
After being fired from his high school paper by editor Gavin Reilly, Eddie "Gonzo" Gilman establishes an underground paper with his friends Rob Becker, Ming Na, and Schneeman to give a voice to unpopular students. Eddie's idea catches the attention of Evie Wallace, who joins the paper's team out of disdain for Gavin. The first issue causes a commotion throughout the school and Principal Roy and Gavin offer to give Eddie his own section in the main paper if he tones down his content. Eddie, however, refuses to censor his articles, even under the threat of suspension.

For the second issue, Eddie exposes the unsanitary conditions of his school's cafeteria, causing the cafeteria to be closed by the health inspector. The issue brings popularity to Eddie in the high school, which grows when Principal Roy suspends him. He and Evie also enter into a relationship. However, Gavin attempts to damage Eddie's reputation by falsely claiming Eddie staged the conditions as a favor to diner owner Errol, Eddie's first advertiser. Eddie retaliates by writing an exposé on Gavin, where he reveals that Gavin had Schneeman write a paper for him in exchange for not being bullied and humiliated an anonymous girl (Evie) with his friends after having sex with her; information that Schneeman and Evie trusted him to not make public. After the article is released, Eddie's friends break off contact with him and he is indefinitely suspended from school, pending a likely expulsion.

At the advice of his father, Eddie creates a video apologizing for his actions and his suspension is lifted. The apology earns him back the respect of many of his classmates, although his friends (except for Rob) continue to refuse to speak with him. Nevertheless, Evie reaches out to Eddie again. The two make amends and resume their relationship.

####Big Eden####
In June 2000, Henry Hart, a gay man, successful artist living in New York, receives a call from his old friend Grace Cornwell, a kindergarten teacher in his hometown, who tells him that his grandfather Sam had a stroke. Although his assistant, Mary Bishop, wants him to stay, Henry feels himself bound to visit and help his ailing grandfather. He jumps on the next plane to his hometown, Big Eden, Montana, giving up his new home and career. Stranded in his place of birth Henry is confronted by the changes of time. Though Sam is becoming better, Henry has the feeling that he should stay with his helpless grandfather because he himself fears becoming an orphan. While accompanying Sam to church every Sunday he involuntarily becomes part of the town life and gossip again. The town-folks somehow always knew about his sexuality, but never mentioned it publicly. Further complicating the situation is the presence of his former high-school crush Dean Stewart, who moved back in town a week earlier. Dean has just split up from his wife and has returned to Big Eden with his kids Ben and Andrew. This leaves Henry trying to work out his unresolved feelings for Dean.

Grace set up a support system for both Henry and Sam. Included is widow Thayer and Pike Dexter, a very shy Native American.  Pike is the town's general-store owner, and the Widow Thayer is center of gossip and society in Big Eden.  She attempts several times to hook up Henry with different people, first women, but after a few "social gatherings" she realizes her error and invites men instead. While all this is going on the Widow Thayer cooks for grandfather and grandson daily, and Pike takes it over to their house and helps by setting the table. After a few weeks Pike realizes that the food is inappropriate and learns how to cook healthy dishes.  He keeps this secret, telling neither the Harts nor Thayer, exchanging Thayer's dinner with his own delicious meals. He also orders the special supplies Henry needs so he can continue painting up in Big Eden. Pike, who wants "things to be nice for Henry", has obviously fallen in love with him too.

Meanwhile, Dean is around Henry a lot, helping him build a ramp for Sam's wheelchair, and taking Henry dancing and to the mountains. With all of his efforts, he tries to show Henry his affection and feelings, but Dean eventually tells Henry that he couldn't live together with him.

Time passes and Sam becomes worse. One night, Henry arrives at home and finds Pike there, looking forlorn. Pike lets Henry know that Sam has died. The town falls into mourning at Sam's death. He built every house in town and was closely connected to each and every one. Though Dean comforts Henry, Pike does the opposite by secluding himself. A funeral is held for Sam, where everyone shows up except for Pike.

Henry, now completely alone, realizes that Pike meant something to him. Pike had shared a "promised dinner together" with him one night where he fascinated Henry by his knowledge of stars and mystical stories. That upsets Henry even more because he thought Sam meant something to Pike too. They both don't talk to each other until the day Henry is leaving for New York. In the very last minute, Pike accepts his love for Henry and tries to catch him at the airport, but he is too late. On his way home, Pike sees Sam's truck in front of his store, not expecting Henry to be waiting for him. The two men become a happy couple.

####Blaze####
The film tells the highly fictionalized story of the latter years of Earl Long, a flamboyant Governor of Louisiana, brother of assassinated governor and U.S. Senator Huey P. Long and uncle of longtime U.S. Senator Russell Long. According to the memoir and film, Earl Long allegedly fell in love with a young stripper named Blaze Starr.

####Blonde Crazy####
Bert Harris works for a hotel as a bellboy. One day, he meets Anne Roberts, who signs up as a chambermaid. He takes a fancy to her and lets her in on his racket, conning people out of money. They arrange for married hotel guest A. Rupert Johnson Jr. to be caught in a compromising position with Anne and get $5000 to keep a (fake) policeman from taking him to jail. From there, they leave town and embark on ever grander crooked schemes.

Anne falls in love with Bert, but he does not realize it until it is too late. By the time he proposes to her, she has transferred her affections to the respectable Joe Reynolds and marries him. Bert travels around Europe for a year. When he returns to the United States, he is no longer interested in crime.

However, Anne tracks him down and asks him for $30,000. It turns out that Joe has embezzled that amount from his employer. Bert does not have that much, but he comes up with a plan. He gets Joe to give the keys to the office and the combination of the company safe. He will break into the safe and steal what is left. Everyone will assume that he also took the $30,000 in negotiable bonds. However, Joe double crosses him; he has the police waiting. Bert manages to speed away in his car, but is shot and captured. When Anne comes to see him in his cell, she informs him that she found out what Joe did. Bert persuades her not to reveal everything to the police, telling her it would not help him anyway. She vows to be waiting for him after he serves his sentence, cheering him up.

####Blume in Love####
Wandering alone around St. Mark's Square in Venice, Italy where he and his former wife Nina had honeymooned, Beverly Hills divorce lawyer Stephen Blume wonders why he was unfaithful to Nina, whom he continues to love in spite of himself. Through a series of extended flashbacks, he reflects on the aftermath of their breakup and divorce.

Nina comes home to find Blume in his bathrobe and his secretary hidden behind their bedroom door, whereupon she leaves him. Although Blume begins to actively date, he is unsatisfied and grows wistful for his married life. Nina, a social worker, embarks on a journey of self-discovery, trying new experiences like yoga and starting a relationship with Elmo, a free-spirited unemployed musician who is 12 years younger than she.

After his divorce, Blume discovers how much he loved Nina and goes to great, sometimes humiliating and mostly futile lengths to win her back, complicated by the fact that he likes Elmo. Although Nina remains skeptical of his motivations, Blume befriends the easygoing Elmo and the three form an unlikely if precarious group of friends.

One night Blume visits Nina's house, ostensibly to see Elmo, but Elmo is not there. Blume tells Nina that he still loves her. She tells him to leave, but he forces himself on her. Elmo enters and Nina tells Elmo that Blume had raped her. Blume admits to the rape and Elmo hits him, ending their friendship.

Elmo visits Blume's office to inform him that Nina is pregnant with Blume's baby. Elmo also tells Blume that he is leaving town because "it's time to go." Blume tells Nina that he wants to help support the child, but she is hesitant. They stay in communication and eventually Nina tells Blume that she wants him to leave town for two weeks in order that she may decide what she wants.

Blume is in Venice for the two weeks away from Nina, but he sees her across the square and they embrace.

####Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice####
After a weekend of emotional honesty at an Esalen-style retreat, Los Angeles sophisticates Bob and Carol Sanders return home determined to embrace complete openness. They share their enthusiasm and excitement over their new-found philosophy with their more conservative friends Ted and Alice Henderson, who remain doubtful. Soon after, filmmaker Bob has an affair with a young production assistant on a film shoot in San Francisco. When he returns home, he admits his liaison to Carol, describing the event as a purely physical act, not an emotional one. To Bob's surprise, Carol is completely accepting of his extramarital behavior. Later, Carol gleefully reveals the affair to Ted and Alice as they are leaving a dinner party. Disturbed by Bob's infidelity and Carol's candor, Alice becomes physically ill on the drive home. She and Ted have a difficult time coping with the news in bed that night. However, as time passes, they grow to accept that Bob and Carol really are fine with the affair. Later, Ted admits to Bob that he was tempted to have an affair once, but did not go through with it; Bob tells Ted he should, rationalizing: "You've got the guilt anyway. Don't waste it."

During another visit to San Francisco, Bob decides to skip a second encounter with the young woman, instead returning home a day early. When he arrives, he discovers Carol having an affair with her tennis instructor. Although initially outraged, Bob quickly realizes that the encounter was purely physical, like his own affair. He settles down and even chats and drinks with the man.

When the two couples travel together to Las Vegas, Bob and Carol reveal Carol's affair to Ted and Alice. Ted then admits to an affair on a recent business trip to Miami. An outraged Alice demands that this new ethos be taken to its obvious conclusion: a mate-sharing foursome. Ted is reluctant, explaining that he loves Carol "like a sister", but eventually acknowledges that he finds her attractive. After discussing it, all four remove their clothes and climb into bed together. Swapping partners, Bob and Alice kiss fervently, as do Ted and Carol, but after a few moments all four simply stop.

The scene cuts to the couples walking to the elevator, riding it down, and walking out of the casino hand-in-hand with their original partners. A crowd of men and women of various cultures and races congregate in the casino parking lot, wherein the four main characters exchange long stares with each other and with strangers, reminiscent of the non-verbal communication shown in the early scene at the retreat.

####Bombshell####
Movie star Lola Burns (Jean Harlow) is angry with her studio publicist E. J. "Space" Hanlon (Lee Tracy), who feeds the press with endless provocative stories about her. Lola's family and staff are another cause of distress for her, as everybody is always trying to take her money. All Burns really wants is to live a normal life and prove to the public that she's not a sexy vamp, but a proper lady. She attempts a few romances and tries to adopt a baby, but Hanlon, who secretly loves her, thwarts all her plans.

Burns decides she can't stand any more of such a life, and flees. Far from the movie fluff, she meets wealthy and romantic Gifford Middleton (Franchot Tone), who hates the movies and therefore has never heard about Lola Burns and her bad press. They soon fall in love, and Gifford proposes marriage. Burns is to meet her fiancé's parents, but everything collapses when her family finds her, and the Middletons find out she is a movie star. Burns feels hurt by the rude way Gifford and his parents dump her, and accepts Hanlon's suggestion to return to Hollywood with no regrets. She does not know that the three Middletons were all actors hired by Hanlon himself.

At the studio, Burns and Hanlon are kissing when the “Middletons” walk by her dressing room. They have been given jobs on the next Barrymore picture as a reward for helping to bring Lola back to the fold. Infuriated, Burns flees. Hanlon jumps into the moving car. They are about to kiss when the supposed lunatic who has been pursuing her throughout the film, claiming to be her husband, sticks his head in the window. He greets Hanlon and asks “How’m I doin’?” Fade out on the battling couple.

####Book of Love####
"Book of Love" is a mockumentary following the unrelated stories of three L.A. bachelors (Eric K. George, Anthony "Treach" Criss, and Richard T. Jones) as they recover from a series of unhealthy relationships. The team of average Joes are no match for their manipulative girlfriends (Salli Richardson, Mari Morrow, and Robin Givens), however, and the over eager men are taken for all they're worth. It's this manipulative, self-serving treatment that drives the young bachelors into behaving like "dogs" themselves.

####Born Yesterday####
Bullying, uncouth junkyard tycoon Harry Brock goes to Washington, D.C., with his brassy girlfriend, Emma "Billie" Dawn, and his crooked lawyer, Jim Devery, to "influence" a politician or two. As a legal precaution, Devery presses Harry to marry Billie, as a wife cannot be forced to testify against her husband.

Harry becomes disgusted with Billie's ignorance and lack of manners, though his are much worse. He hires journalist Paul Verrall, who had come to interview him, to educate her and give her some culture. Blossoming under Paul's encouragement and her own hard work, Billie learns about literature, history, politics and the law, and turns out to be much smarter than anyone knew.

Billie starts thinking for herself and applying her learning to her situation. She also falls in love with Paul, who respects and appreciates her. When she stands up to Harry, he reacts violently, striking her and forcing her to sign the contracts related to his crooked deal.

Meanwhile, Devery has persuaded Harry to sign over many of his assets to Billie to hide them from the government. When Harry experiences Billie's new independence, he tries to intimidate her into signing his assets back to him. Billie and Paul use her leverage to escape from Harry's domination. She promises to give him back his property little by little as long as he leaves them alone. A brief final scene reveals that Billie and Paul have married.

####Born Yesterday####
A wealthy but crude businessman, Harry Brock, on a trip to the nation's capital, is socially embarrassed by his ditzy, uncultured showgirl girlfriend, Billie Dawn. He hires a reporter, Paul Verrall, to educate her ("teach her the ropes").

Harry comes to regret his idea when Billie not only becomes more savvy, questioning his unscrupulous deals and rebelling against his bullying, but also falls in love with Paul.

####The Boy Downstairs####
Aspiring Brooklyn writer Diana and aspiring musician Ben's first date is on a rowboat in Prospect Park, and their relationship becomes serious over a year. Ben wants a long-term, happy marriage like his parents, but Diana plans to move to London and does not want distractions or commitments. She discourages his suggestion of moving with her, and stuns Ben by ending the relationship before leaving.

After returning to Brooklyn three years later, Diana finds an apartment through Meg, a friend of her best friend Gabby. Diana learns that Ben is living in the downstairs apartment, and that he is dating Meg. She spies on Ben and Meg instead of working on her novel, annoying Meg. After Ben and Meg break up, he tells Diana that he does not want to see her as he cannot be only friends with her, and moves out of his apartment.

Ben finds Diana after a minor accident. His devoted care for her at the hospital and at her home reminds Diana of Ben's kindness and character, but when she goes to his new home to confess her love, Meg is there. Her romantic difficulties help Diana finish her novel, however. The film ends with Ben awaiting her at her home, and possibly a tentative resumption of their relationship.

####Boy Meets Girl####
21-year-old Ricky is a transgender woman living in a small town in Kentucky with big dreams to move to New York and attend a school of fashion design. Ricky is working as a barista and spends most of her time hanging out with her only friend Robby, who has been by her side for the past 15 years. One day while Ricky is at work, Francesca, a woman from town, walks in and a friendship unexpectedly blossoms that then turns into an affair.

####The Break-Up####
Gary Grobowski and Brooke Meyers meet at Wrigley Field during a Chicago Cubs game and begin dating, eventually buying a condominium together. Gary works as a tour guide in a family business with his brothers, Lupus and Dennis. Brooke manages an art gallery owned by eccentric artist Marilyn Dean.

Their relationship comes to a head after the latest in an escalating series of arguments. Brooke, feeling unappreciated, criticizes Gary's perceived immaturity and unwillingness to work on improving their relationship. Gary is frustrated by Brooke's perceived controlling, perfectionistic attitude, and expresses his desire to have a little more independence, particularly when arriving home from work, wanting to unwind.

Brooke becomes irate when Gary fails to offer to help her clean up after a big dinner party at their home. Still frustrated from their earlier, unresolved argument, she breaks up with him (despite still being in love with him). Brooke seeks relationship advice from her friend Addie, while Gary goes to tell his side of things to friend Johnny Ostrofski.

Since neither is willing to move out of their condo, they compromise by living as roommates; but each begins acting out to provoke the other in increasingly elaborate ways. Gary buys a pool table, litters the condo with food and trash, and even has a strip poker party with Lupus and a few women. Meanwhile, Brooke has Gary kicked off their "couples-only" bowling team and starts dating other men in an attempt to make Gary jealous.

When their friend and realtor Mark Riggleman sells the condo, Gary and Brooke are given two weeks' notice to move out. Brooke invites Gary to an Old 97's concert, hoping that he will figure out that the gesture is meant to be her last-ditch attempt to salvage their relationship. Gary agrees to meet her there, but misses the hidden agenda, and misses the concert—unwittingly breaking Brooke's heart. When Gary goes out for a drink with Johnny, his friend points out that Gary has always had his guard up, has been guilty of a lot of selfishness, and never gave Brooke a chance, emotional intimacy-wise.

Afterwards, Brooke quits her job in order to spend time traveling Europe. When she brings a customer from the art gallery home one evening, Brooke finds the condo cleaned and Gary preparing a fancy dinner to win her back. He lays his heart on the line and promises to appreciate her more. Brooke becomes devastated and states that she just cannot give anymore, and, therefore, does not feel the same way. Gary seems to understand and kisses her before leaving. It is later revealed that Brooke's "date" (who initially asked her out, but she politely rejected) was actually a client interested in a piece of artwork she kept at the condo.

Both eventually move out of the condo. Gary begins taking a more active role in his tour guide business, while Brooke travels the world, eventually returning to Chicago. Sometime later, they meet again by chance on the street as Gary is bringing home groceries and Brooke is on her way to a meeting. After some awkward but friendly catching up, they part ways but each glances back over their shoulder and they share a smile.

####Breakfast at Tiffany's####
Early one morning, a taxi pulls up in front of the Tiffany & Co. flagship store and from it emerges elegantly dressed Holly Golightly, carrying a paper bag containing her breakfast. After looking into the store's window displays, she strolls to her apartment and has to fend off her date from the night before.

Once inside, Holly cannot find her keys, so she buzzes her landlord, Mr. Yunioshi, to let her in. Later, she is awakened by new neighbor Paul Varjak, who rings her doorbell to get into the building. The pair chat as she dresses to leave for her weekly visit to mobster Sally Tomato, who is currently incarcerated at Sing Sing. Tomato's lawyer pays her $100 a week to deliver "the weather report".

As she is leaving, Holly is introduced to Paul's "decorator", wealthy older woman Emily Eustace Failenson, whom Paul nicknames "2E". That night, when Holly goes out onto the fire escape to elude an over-eager date, she peeks into Paul's apartment and sees 2E leaving money and kissing him goodbye.

Visiting Paul afterward, she learns he is a writer who has not had anything published since a book of vignettes five years before. Holly, in turn, explains she is trying to save money to support her brother Fred after he completes his Army service. The pair fall asleep but are awakened when Holly has a nightmare about her brother. When Paul questions her about this, Holly chides him for prying.

Holly later buys Paul a typewriter ribbon to apologize and invites him to a wild party at her apartment. There, he meets her Hollywood agent, who describes Holly's transformation from a country girl into a Manhattan socialite, along with wealthy Brazilian politician José da Silva Pereira, and Rusty Trawler, the "ninth richest man in America under 50".


Some time later, 2E enters Paul's apartment, worried she is being followed. Paul tells her he will investigate and eventually confronts Holly's husband, Doc Golightly, who explains that Holly's real name is Lula Mae Barnes and that they were married when she was approaching 14. Now he wants to take her back to rural Texas. After Paul reunites Holly and Doc, she informs Paul that the marriage was annulled. At the Greyhound bus station, she tells Doc she will not return with him, and he leaves broken-hearted.

After drinking at a club, Paul and Holly return to her apartment, where she drunkenly tells him that she plans to marry Trawler for his money.  A few days later, Paul learns that one of his short stories will be published. On the way to tell Holly, he sees a newspaper headline stating that Trawler has married someone else.

Holly and Paul agree to spend the day together, taking turns doing things each has never done before.  At Tiffany's, he has the ring from Doc Golightly's box of Cracker Jack engraved as a present for her. After spending the night together, Paul awakens to find Holly gone. When 2E arrives, he ends their affair. She calmly accepts, having earlier concluded that he was in love with someone.

Holly now schemes to marry José for his money, but after receiving a telegram notifying her of her brother's death in a jeep accident, she trashes her apartment. Months later, she invites Paul to dinner, as she is leaving the next morning for Brazil to continue her relationship with José. However, the pair are arrested in connection with Sally Tomato's drug ring, and Holly spends the night in jail.

The next morning, Hollywood friend O.J. Berman pays Holly's bail. Paul is waiting for her in a cab, bringing her pet, "Cat", and a letter from José explaining that he must end their relationship due to her arrest. Holly insists that she will go to Brazil anyway; she asks the cab to pull over and pushes Cat out into the pouring rain. Just after they get underway again, Paul storms out of the cab, tossing the engraved ring into her lap and telling her to examine her life.

Holly goes through a decision-making moment, puts on the ring and runs after Paul, who has gone looking for Cat. Finally, Holly finds Cat sheltering in an alley and, with him tucked into her coat, she and Paul embrace.

####Breakin'####
Protagonist Kelly "Special K" Bennett is a young dancer training under instructor Franco in Venice, California. Through her friend Adam, Kelly meets two street dancers, Ozone and Turbo on the boardwalk at Venice Beach. Kelly is enamored with their dancing, and all three become friends. This leads to their becoming their own dance troupe.

Franco tells Kelly that breakdancing is low-class and not a real art. He is disrespectful to Ozone and Turbo, and makes inappropriate advances on Kelly. She quits training with Franco. Later, Kelly attends a dance audition and is shut down by harsh directors.

Kelly then wanders to a breakdancing event where she finds Ozone and Turbo in the midst of a dance battle that they eventually lose against rivals "Electro Rock." Adam convinces Ozone and Turbo to teach Kelly how to breakdance. After training for a while, the three defeat Electro Rock. Kelly convinces the troupe to enroll in a dance competition. Kelly's agent friend, James, sees what the group can do and agrees to back them.

The competition requirements are traditional, socially respected styles of dance. The troupe walks before the judges in tuxedos, top hats and white gloves to give the impression of traditional dancers. Just before the audition starts, they rip off the sleeves of their shirts and show their true style. The judges are initially shocked and disapproving. Yet within two minutes of their audition, the judges recognize the troupe's talent and allow them to continue. The troupe earns a standing ovation from the judges and win the competition. The troupe's popularity skyrockets, and all three members continue dancing professionally and in the community.

In a mid-credits scene, Special K, Ozone, and Turbo meet James some time after the competition, who informs them about a new phenomenon known as "the electric boogaloo."

####A Breath of Scandal####
In 1907, a widowed Princess Olympia of the Austro-Hungarian Empire has been banished from the Imperial Court to her late husband's country estate. The bored Princess spends her time improving her rifle marksmanship by using flowers, statues and the postman as her targets. When she tires of that, being an expert equestrienner as well as an expert markswoman, she rides a wild stallion to her hunting lodge. On the way she is thrown from her mount by the appearance of an automobile driven by a visiting American mining engineer Charlie Foster. She feigns injury to get to know Charlie better as she keeps her royal heritage a secret from him, for Charlie believes her a peasant. Treating her with his first aid expertise, Charlie gives her his own pyjamas but mistakenly gives her a sleeping pill with a glass of wine that sends Olympia into a deep sleep.

Waking in Charlie's pyjama top, but not the bottom, Olympia fears the worst has happened and flees back home where news as arrived that she is able to return to the Imperial Court in Vienna. Olympia is greeted by the news by her mother that she is to be married to Prince Ruprecht of Prussia. She is also reunited with Charlie who has come to see her father Prince Philip about mining and refining bauxite in the Empire. Her rival Countess Lina is determined to ruin Princess Olympia's life by informing the Imperial Chamberlain Count Sandor of Olympia's scandalous conduct with the American.

####The Bride Wore Red####
In a Trieste casino, the cynical Count Armalia (George Zucco) tells his friend Rudi Pal (Robert Young) that life is “a great roulette wheel”. Luck is the only thing separating aristocrats and waiters.. Later, in “the lowest dive in Trieste” he tells Rudi that if he had one of the girls “washed, dressed and coiffured” Rudi could not tell the difference between one of the “poor things” (prostitution is implied) and his fiancée. Rudi leaves, and the Count decides to prove his point. He offers the singer, Anni Pavlovitch (Joan Crawford), money, a wardrobe and a two-week stay at Terrano, an elegant resort in the Tyrol. She will be Anne Vivaldi, the fictional daughter of a fictional naval officer. Anni's one condition: a red evening dress.

When Anni arrives at the Terrano train station, she gets a ride to the hotel from Giulio (Franchot Tone), a philosophical and poetical postman who has no ambition, no desire for wealth, and is not impressed by her haughty attitude. The hotel manager greets Anni effusively: The Count has arranged everything.

The maid turns out to be Anni's old friend, Maria (Mary Philips). One day, Maria looked into a mirror and was frightened by the wrinkles and heavy makeup that foretold her “finish.” She has built a new, happy life at the hotel. Maria is suspicious of the Count and warns Anni to be careful and correct. She is horrified by Anni's beloved new evening dress, a mass of red beads. “You might as well wear a sign,” she says, grimly.

That evening, dressed in pale lace, Anni struggles with the menu and table service until a waiter helps her, discreetly. Rudi is dining with his fiancée, Maddalena Monti (Lynne Carver); her father, Admiral Monti (Reginald Owen); and the Contessa di Meina (Billie Burke). Rudi and the Admiral are both attracted to Anni. The Admiral sends her a note. Thinking it is from Rudi, she coolly tears it up. Rudi apologizes, explains, and invites her to join their party. The Admiral pretends to know her, Rudi asks her to dance, and the Contessa warns Maddalena: “Watch out!”

Rudi falls in love with Anni, mystified by the difference between her behavior at the hotel and her wild freedom in the woods. Giulio, clearly in love, is also confused.

Hoping to lure Rudi into a proposal, Anni extends her stay.

The Contessa, who has been suspicious from the beginning, wires Armalia. His reply—he had forgotten all about his experiment with the cabaret girl—comes through Giulio. On the way to deliver it, Giulio meets Anni, and they go to his cottage. She tells him a long lie about her past, and breaks down. She loves him, but marriage to Rudi would bring the life she craves. Later, she falls, and Giulio loses the telegram while helping her.

At the costume party, Anni snubs Giulio when he offers her edelweiss, a symbol of devoted love found only in remote, dangerous mountain heights. “He must have risked his life for those flowers,” the Contessa says. Rudi finally proposes, after she refuses to be his mistress. She confesses to Giulio that she loves him—but she will marry Rudi the next day because she can live without love but will never again live with hunger.

The next day, Rudi tells Maddalena that he loves Anni. She steps aside, suggesting that they dine together that evening, and then bursts into tears. While Maria helps Anni pack, Anni decides to wear the red dress. Maria tells her that she no longer has a heart and that the gaudy red is what she is really like. “You can't remember the waterfront because you are still there.”

During dinner, Giulio brings a copy of the telegram to the hotel; the bellboy delivers it to the Contessa, who shows it to the others. Maddalena is genuinely sympathetic. Anni tells Rudi that he should marry his childhood sweetheart.

Anni runs to Maria for comfort, but soon realizes that she is relieved. She leaves the hotel, taking only her peasant costume and a long cloak. Giulio is happily waiting for her.

####Broadcast News####
Jane Craig is a talented but intense news producer whose life revolves around her work. She is passionate about reporting, and abhors the trend towards soft news in news broadcasts. Her best friend and collaborator, Aaron Altman, is a gifted writer and reporter, but is lacking in many social skills. The two work in the Washington, D.C. bureau of a national TV network. The bureau hires Tom Grunick, a local news anchorman who started his career in sports. Tom is tall, handsome, likable, and telegenic, but lacks news experience and isn't especially bright. He constantly seeks help from Jane to assist him with his reporting, who resents his lack of qualifications, but finds herself attracted to him. Tom is also attracted to Jane, but is intimidated by her skills and intensity.

Aaron and Jane go to Nicaragua to report on the Sandinista rebels there and get caught up in a shooting battle between them and the contras but remain unscathed and bring home footage that wins the approval of their national anchorman. At an office party, news arrives of a Libyan plane having bombed a U.S. military base in Italy. The network chief decides to put on a special report on the spot, with Tom as anchor and Jane as executive producer. Aaron, who is at the party and has extensive knowledge about the subject, is devastated at Tom's selection. Jane argues that Tom lacks the skills to handle the responsibility of the report, but is overruled by the network chief. Watching from his home, Aaron calls Jane with pertinent information, which she feeds to Tom through his earpiece. With the combination of Tom's on-camera poise and Jane's hard news skills, the report is a great success. Their teamwork also intensifies their mutual attraction.  When Jane returns for drinks with colleagues later in the evening, she meets Tom as he is leaving with co-worker Jennifer. Jane later selects Jennifer for an extended assignment in Alaska so that Tom and Jennifer will not be able to pursue a relationship with each other.

Wanting to complete a story without outside assistance, Tom creates a piece on date rape; the piece includes an extended interview with a rape victim, where Tom is shown tearing up in reaction to her story. Aaron and Jane are unimpressed with the story, but Jane finds it affecting nonetheless. In the face of potential layoffs, Aaron receives an opportunity to anchor the weekend news due to most of his colleagues going to the White House Correspondents' Dinner. He seeks advice from Tom, who encourages Aaron to be more salesman-like in his approach. Aaron writes high-quality copy and takes Tom's advice, but during the broadcast begins sweating uncontrollably, resulting in a disastrous broadcast. Meanwhile, Jane and Tom begin to progress romantically at the White House Correspondents' Dinner.  But before things get more involved, Jane leaves to console Aaron. The two have a heated argument, where Aaron tells Jane that Tom represents everything Jane hates about the direction of news media.  Aaron also tells Jane that he is in love with her.

The forewarned layoffs hit the network, resulting in many colleagues losing their jobs. Tom is moved to the London office, indicating that he is being groomed for a national anchor position; Jane is promoted to bureau chief. Tom and Jane agree to take a romantic getaway together before starting their new jobs. Aaron tenders his resignation and tells Jane he plans to take a job at a local television station in Portland, Oregon. Before he leaves, he tells Jane that Tom's tears during his date rape piece were staged; reviewing the footage, Jane realizes that Aaron is correct. Jane angrily confronts him at the airport, saying that his actions were a breach of journalistic ethics and that she cannot in good conscience become personally involved with him. Tom argues with her, but eventually relents, leaving Jane behind.

The three meet again seven years later. Tom has taken over as national anchorman, Aaron has a wife and child, and Jane has a new boyfriend. Jane reveals she plans to take a managing editor role for the network in New York, working with Tom again. Tom leaves after Jane declines a dinner invitation with him and his fiancée, while she and Aaron sit on a bench and catch up on their respective lives.

####Broken English####
Nora Wilder (Parker Posey), a single career woman, works at a Manhattan boutique hotel where her excellent skills in guest relations are the complete opposite of her skills in the romance department. If it is not her loving yet dominant mother (Gena Rowlands) attempting to set her up that consistently fails, she has her friend's (Drea de Matteo) disastrous blind dates to rely on as a backup for further dismay. She's surrounded by friends who are all either happily engaged or romantically involved and somehow, love escapes Nora—until she meets an unusual Frenchman (Melvil Poupaud) who helps her discover life beyond her self-imposed boundaries.

####The Broken Hearts Club####
The film follows the lives of a group of gay friends in West Hollywood. Among the group is Dennis, a photographer who often holds the group together; Cole, a handsome, charismatic actor who — often unwittingly — ends up with other people's boyfriends; Benji, the youngest member of the group who has a penchant for gym-bodied men and who finds himself going through some bad times; Howie, a psychology student who is known for overthinking every situation; Patrick, the cynic of the group; and Taylor, who has just broken up with his long-term boyfriend.

Guiding them is restaurant owner Jack, who provides them with advice and jobs for some of them who work part-time as servers at his restaurant. But when tragedy strikes, and the group's newest member, 23-year-old Kevin, attempts to fit in, their friendships are put to the test.

####The Brothers McMullen####
Finbar "Barry" McMullen stands at the grave of his recently deceased father, along with his mother, who tells him that she's returning to her native Ireland to be with Finbar O'Shaughnessy (after whom Barry is named), her sweetheart of long ago. She tells Barry that while she gave Barry's father 35 of the best years of her life, she's going to start living life her way with Finbar O'Shaughnessy, the man she really loves.

Barry's brother Jack has purchased their parents' home and lives in it with his wife Molly. Jack is torn between his love for Molly and his lust for Ann, a former romantic interest of Barry.

Barry and the youngest brother Patrick ask to temporarily move in with Jack, to which he reluctantly agrees. Patrick plans to break his engagement to Susan, but becomes depressed when she breaks up with him. After much pleading, Susan decides to take him back. Patrick then decides to end the relationship for good for Leslie, an auto mechanic. They head to California together in a classic car that Leslie has been working on.

Barry shows no interest in a long-term relationship until he meets Audrey, a woman whom he accuses of "stealing" an apartment that he was trying to rent for himself. Although things do not go well between them at first, they warm to one another and start a relationship.

Molly learns of Jack's affair after finding a wrapped condom in his pants as she is cleaning up after him one day. She confronts Jack, but he refuses to discuss it.

Jack finally breaks it off for good with Ann. He then returns home determined to rebuild his wounded marriage, but not before paying a visit to his father's grave, promising that he will be a better husband to his wife than his father was, pouring a bottle of Irish whiskey over the grave.

Barry decides to move in with Audrey and take their relationship to the next level. The three brothers gather at the family homestead with a newfound belief in love and a desire not to let the ghosts of the past stand in their way.

####The Buddy System####
Emily Price is a single mother: she got pregnant in high school and was abandoned by the father before her son, Tim, was born. She and Tim live with her mother, who is both protective and disparaging, and tends to overlook her daughter in favor of her grandson. She is trying to become a court reporter, but freezes up every time she takes the test.

Joe comes into their lives when he is sent out to do a residency check by the school: Emily and Tim have been lying about where they live so he can go to a better school. The price for Tim is loneliness: he can't tell anyone where he lives. Joe, who is an aspiring novelist and an inventor of gadgets, decides not to report them and strikes up an unlikely friendship with Tim that gradually escalates to include Emily as well. Previous romantic entanglements - for Emily, the withholding Jim; for Joe, the beautiful but self-absorbed Carrie - intervene while Emily gains courage and independence and Joe comes to understand where his real talents lie.

####Buffalo '66####
Having just served five years in prison, Billy Brown (Vincent Gallo) returns home to Buffalo, New York, and is preparing to meet with his parents, who don't know he's been in prison. He kidnaps Layla (Christina Ricci), a tap dancer, and forces her to pretend to be his wife to his parents. He gives her the name "Wendy Balsam".

When they meet with Billy's parents (Ben Gazzara and Anjelica Huston), Layla sees that the relationship between them is very dysfunctional, and sees Billy's own mother forgetting he has a chocolate allergy and his father behaves inappropriately towards her. She finds out that Billy's mother has never missed a Buffalo Bills game, except in 1966, on the day Billy was born. In a flashback it is revealed that Billy once placed a reckless $10,000 bet on the Bills to win Super Bowl XXV; when they lost, the bookie (Mickey Rourke) forced Billy to clear his debt by confessing to a crime he didn't commit, resulting in his time served in prison. Now Billy seeks revenge on Scott Wood, the kicker who lost the game. (This is a reference to Buffalo Bills kicker Scott Norwood, who missed the potential game-winning field goal in Super Bowl XXV.)

As they leave his parents' house, Billy scolds Layla for telling an obvious lie to his father, and then decides to go bowling. Here Billy shows off his expertise at the sport, and Layla gives a tap dance routine to King Crimson's 'Moonchild'. The two use a photo booth to take photos "spanning time" which Billy intends to send to his parents once a year, but Billy becomes annoyed when Layla makes silly faces during the photos, in contrast to Billy's straight face.

After bowling, Billy and Layla visit a diner, where Billy encounters the real Wendy Balsam (Rosanna Arquette), a girl he used to have a crush on in middle school, who is now happily in a relationship with another man. Billy leaves Layla alone in the diner after a brief argument, but regretting his outburst, returns and apologizes to her. Billy and Layla check into a motel, where Billy and Layla have a deep conversation, and eventually admit that they have fallen in love with each other, and they both go to sleep.

A few hours after midnight, he is about to leave to exact his revenge on Wood, when Layla awakens. Despite Layla's doubts that he'll return and proclamation of her love for him, he leaves, lying to her that he'll return in a few minutes with hot chocolate for her.

Shortly after leaving Layla at the motel, Billy finds Scott Wood, now the owner of a topless bar. At Wood's own bar, he walks over to Wood's table and shoots him in the head, before shooting himself. His parents are then shown sitting by his grave with his mother showing more interest in a Buffalo game on the radio than in her own son's death. However, this is all shown to be inside of Billy's mind. Billy leaves the bar without killing Wood, realizing that in Layla he's finally found a person who truly loves him. After making amends with his friend Goon (Kevin Corrigan) on a payphone, the film ends with Billy elatedly buying Layla her hot chocolate and a heart-shaped cookie, and buying another for a man sitting nearby who tells him he has a girlfriend, before returning to Layla at the motel.

####Bus Stop####
A naive, unintelligent, socially inept, loud-mouth cowboy, Beauregard Decker, and his friend and father-figure Virgil Blessing take the bus from Timber Hill, Montana to Phoenix, Arizona, to participate in a rodeo. Virgil has encouraged the 21-year-old virgin, Beau, to take an interest in "gals". Initially reluctant and frightened of the idea, Beau declares that he hopes to find an "angel" and will know her when he sees her. Making trouble everywhere they go, he continues his unsophisticated behavior in Grace's Diner. In Phoenix, at the Blue Dragon Café, he imagines himself in love with the café's chanteuse, Chérie, an ambitious performer from the Ozarks with aspirations of becoming a Hollywood star. Her rendition of "That Old Black Magic" entrances him and he forces her outside, despite the establishment's rules against it, kisses her and thinks that means they are engaged. Chérie is physically attracted to him but resists his plans to take her back to Montana. She has no intention of marrying him and tells him so, but he is too stubborn to listen.

The next day, Beau gets a marriage license, and then takes an exhausted Chérie to the rodeo parade and the rodeo, where he rides the bucking bronco and then competes in the calf-roping and the bull-riding. Beau intends to marry Chérie at the rodeo, but she runs away. He tracks her down at the Blue Dragon Café, where she jumps out a rear window and flees. Beau catches her, and forces her on the bus back to Montana. On the way, they stop at Grace's Diner, the same place the bus stopped on the way to Phoenix. Chérie tries to make another getaway while Beau is asleep on the bus, but the road ahead is blocked by snow and the bus won't be leaving at all so they are all stranded there. The bus driver, Carl, the waitress, Elma, and the café owner, Grace, by now all have learned that Beau is kidnapping and bullying the girl. Virgil and the bus driver fight him until he promises to apologize to Chérie and leave her alone. He, however, is unable to do so because he is humiliated about having been beaten.

The next morning, the storm has cleared and everybody is free to go. Beau finally apologizes to Chérie for his abusive behavior and begs her forgiveness. He wishes her well and prepares to depart without her. Chérie approaches him and confesses that she's had many boyfriends and is not the kind of woman he thinks she is. Beau confesses his lack of experience to her. Beau asks to kiss her goodbye and they share their first real kiss. All Chérie wanted from a man was respect, which she had previously told the waitress when they sat together on the bus. This new Beau attracts Chérie. He accepts her past and this gesture touches her heart. She tells him that she will go anywhere with him. Virgil decides to stay behind. When Beau tries to coerce him to go with them, Chérie reminds him that he can't force Virgil to do what he wants. Having finally apparently learned his lesson, Beau offers Chérie his jacket and gallantly helps her onto the bus.

####Café Society####
Bobby Dorfman is the youngest son of a Jewish family in New York City in the 1930s.  His elder sister Evelyn is a married school teacher, while his elder brother Ben is a gangster. Discontented with working for his father, a jeweler, Bobby decides to move to Hollywood, where he takes a job running menial errands for his uncle Phil, a powerhouse talent agent.

Phil introduces Bobby to his secretary Veronica, nicknamed Vonnie, who is tasked with helping Bobby settle into Hollywood. Bobby is drawn to her unpretentiousness as opposed to most young women living in Hollywood, and falls deeply in love with her. She rebuffs his advances, telling him she has a journalist boyfriend named Doug. In reality, "Doug" is Phil, with whom Vonnie is carrying on an illicit romance; he promises to divorce his wife and marry her.

On the first-year "paper anniversary" of their affair, Vonnie gives Phil a letter written and signed by Rudolph Valentino as a gift. However, Phil proceeds to tell her that he is incapable of divorcing his wife, so he ends the affair. Vonnie subsequently surrenders to Bobby's love for her and their friendship turns into a romance.

A forlorn Phil confides in Bobby about his affair—without naming his mistress—before telling him he has determined to divorce his wife. Bobby passingly mentions his relationship with Vonnie and his intention to marry her and return to New York. Phil begins petitioning Vonnie privately to leave Bobby and marry him instead.

While having a conversation with Phil in his office, Bobby notices the Valentino letter. Recognizing it from Vonnie's account about her breakup with "Doug", he confronts her and asks her to choose between himself and Phil. Vonnie chooses Phil.

A heartbroken Bobby returns to New York City where he begins to run a high-end nightclub with his gangster brother, Ben. It soon becomes a famous hangout for the rich and powerful, from politicians to gangsters. Bobby meets divorcée Veronica Hayes at the nightclub, and they begin dating, soon getting married and starting a family together.

On an extended visit to New York, a happily married Phil and Vonnie stop at the nightclub and insist on seeing Bobby. Vonnie has become a pretentious name-dropper and Bobby is at first repulsed by her. However, he agrees to show her around New York—as she had once done for him in Hollywood. They spend an evening without Phil, visiting Bobby's favorite haunts and, as dawn breaks over Central Park, share a kiss; but it's clear that it can go no further.

Bobby's sister Evelyn asks their brother, Ben, to "talk to" her disagreeable neighbor; Ben promptly kills him. He is arrested and convicted for murder and racketeering. Shortly before he goes to the electric chair, he converts to Christianity, mortifying his parents. His late brother's notoriety propels the nightclub to new heights, and Bobby travels to Los Angeles to contemplate opening a Hollywood version. He ultimately decides against it, but, before he leaves, he and Vonnie have lunch together, where she mentions that she and Phil will be returning to New York for a short visit. However, they both decide that it is better if they don't see each other.

Months later, on New Year's Eve, Bobby and Vonnie are apart—Bobby in New York City hosting festivities in his nightclub, and Vonnie with her husband at a Hollywood house party. As the new year is rung in, they both seem distant to their spouses, and both have a faraway look in their eyes.

####Camelot####
As King Arthur prepares for battle against his former friend, Sir Lancelot, he reflects on the sad circumstances which have led him to this situation.

Arthur thinks back to the night of his marriage to Guenevere. It is an arranged marriage, and he is afraid of what lies ahead ("I Wonder What the King is Doing Tonight"). Guenevere herself is worried about marrying a man she has never met and longs for the romantic life of a fought-over maiden ("The Simple Joys of Maidenhood"). They converse, and as she does not know his true identity, she fantasizes about escaping with him. Arthur tells her what a wonderful place his kingdom is ("Camelot"). She finds herself drawn to him, but they are interrupted by his men and her entourage. Arthur's identity is revealed, and Guenevere gladly goes with him to be married.

Four years later, Arthur explores with Guenevere his idea for a "Round Table" that would seat all the noble knights of the realm, reflecting not only a crude type of democratic ideal, but also the political unification of England. Inspired by Arthur's ideas, the French Knight Lancelot makes his way to England with his squire Dap, boasting of his superior virtues ("C'est Moi"). Lancelot's prowess impresses Arthur, and they become friends; however, many of the knights instantly despise Lancelot for his self-righteousness and boasting manner. Back in Camelot, Guinevere and the women frolic and gather flowers to celebrate the coming of spring ("The Lusty Month of May").

Guenevere, who initially dislikes Lancelot, incites three of the best knights to challenge him to a joust ("Then You May Take Me To The Fair"). Arthur ponders how distant Guenevere has become recently ("How to Handle a Woman"). Guenevere's plan goes awry as Lancelot easily defeats all three, critically wounding Sir Dinadan. A horrified Lancelot pleads for Sir Dinadan to live, and as he lays hands on him, Dinadan miraculously recovers. Guenevere is so overwhelmed and humbled that her feelings for Lancelot begin to change. Despite his vows of celibacy, Lancelot falls in love with Guenevere.

Guinevere and Lancelot meet in secret to discuss their future. Lancelot vows that he should leave and never come back, but finds it impossible to consider leaving Guenevere ("If Ever I Would Leave You"). Arthur decides to rise above the scandal. Mordred, Arthur's illegitimate son, arrives at Camelot determined to bring down the fellowship of the Round Table by stirring up trouble. All this takes its toll on Arthur's disposition, and Guenevere tries to cheer him up ("What Do the Simple Folk Do?") despite her conflicted emotions.

Mordred persuades Arthur to stay out hunting all night as a test, knowing that Lancelot will visit Guenevere in her bedchamber. Lancelot and Guenevere sing of their forbidden love and how wrong it has all gone ("I Loved You Once In Silence"). Mordred and several knights catch the lovers together. Lancelot escapes, but Guenevere is arrested. Thanks to Arthur's new civil court and trial by jury, she is sentenced to die by burning at the stake. Bound by his own law, Arthur cannot spare her. Preparations are made for Guenevere's burning ("Guenevere"), but Lancelot rescues her at the last minute, much to Arthur's relief.

On the battlefield, Arthur receives a surprise visit from Lancelot and Guenevere, at the edge of the woods, where she has taken residence at a convent. The three share an emotional farewell.

Prior to the battle, Arthur stumbles across a young boy named Tom, who espouses his commitment to Arthur's original ideal of "Not might 'makes' right, but might 'for' right." Arthur realizes that, although most of his plans have fallen through, the ideals of Camelot still live on in this simple boy. Arthur knights Tom and gives him his orders—run behind the lines and survive the battle, so that he can tell future generations about the legend of Camelot. Watching Tom leave, Arthur regains his hope for the future ("Camelot (reprise)").

####The Cat and the Fiddle####
The film plot is substantially changed from that of the Broadway musical. Victor Florescu (Ramon Novarro)

####Celeste and Jesse Forever####
Celeste and Jesse start dating in high school and eventually marry young. Their relationship is depicted via photo montage, ending with Celeste walking away from Jesse during a party.

Celeste and Jesse get along well. She is a successful trend analyzer and runs her own media company with a business partner, Scott. Celeste's media company has recently signed Riley Banks, a teenage pop star whom Celeste does not respect and had previously insulted during a television interview. Jesse is an unemployed artist in no hurry to find a job.

Celeste decides to separate but promises to remain friends. Jesse agrees, but he is still in love with Celeste and hopes to reconcile. They manage to share a close relationship after their separation. Their connection during the divorce becomes increasingly concerning to their mutual friends, Beth and Tucker. Beth tries to reason with Celeste and Jesse about the odd nature of their arrangement, but Celeste rationalizes that it is better for the two to maintain their friendship. Another mutual friend, Skillz, agrees with Beth and Tucker and maintains that it is time for the two to move on with their lives.

Celeste is initially content with her relationship status until she spends the night with Jesse. Realizing reconciliation is not possible, Jesse decides to leave while ignoring Celeste's apologies. Jesse is able to move on and begins dating Veronica, who later becomes pregnant. Celeste is unhappy about Veronica’s pregnancy and expresses concern to Beth, who wonders if she is having second thoughts with regard to the divorce. To distract herself, Celeste takes up exercising and begins dating other people. While out with a new boyfriend, Max, Celeste runs into Jesse. The encounter becomes awkward for Celeste, but Max and Jesse get along well. Having gone through a divorce before, Max suggests that Celeste is not ready to date and that she should take her time.

Celeste meets Paul in yoga class and responds angrily after he hits on her. After the two meet again at a party, she warms up to Paul and they begin seeing each other. In the meantime, Jesse begins to mature and takes on more responsibility with regard to Veronica and her pregnancy. Celeste ultimately realizes her decision to divorce Jesse was impulsive and selfish and hopes to reunite with him. When she expresses her feelings to Jesse, they fight and leave each other on poor terms.

Celeste later gets a call from her client, Riley, asking her to come over. Celeste initially believes she is upset because of a logo design that sparked unintentional controversy with her tween fanbase. After arriving at Riley's house, she finds her in tears. She admits to Celeste that she has been seeing a man whom she recently discovered cheating on her. They form an unexpected bond over their shared heartbreak and become friends. At a nightclub with Riley, Celeste realizes the questionable logo she designed appeals greatly to Riley's gay fanbase. Celeste recognizes the potential to leverage the logo to make her the next Lady Gaga.

At Beth and Tucker's wedding, Celeste makes an emotional toast, urging the newlyweds to appreciate each other, be patient, and try hard, as she should have done in her own marriage. This speech touches Jesse and he thanks Celeste.

On a karaoke date, Celeste informs Paul of her need to take some time to recover from her divorce, which he understands. Celeste and Jesse finally sign their divorce papers and are able to laugh at each other's inside jokes. Their lawyers look on, confused by this response. Celeste wishes Jesse well and asks if he loves Veronica, to which he responds that he does. Celeste encourages him to keep fighting for his marriage to Veronica and they share one final kiss.

####Chapter Two####
George Schneider is an author living in New York City whose hours are occupied by his work, softball games in the park and visits from his married brother Leo, a press agent who has been trying to introduce widower George to eligible women. George's emotions are still raw from the death of his wife, and he continues to be reminded of her.

George is given the phone number of a Jennie MacLaine, an actress Leo recently met through his friend Faye Medwick, and dials it accidentally while intending to call someone else. After an awkward exchange, he repeatedly phones Jennie to explain why he called, even though she makes it clear that she, too, has no interest in a blind date. George's persistence results in her accepting his proposal of a "five-minute" date, face-to-face. If that doesn't go well, he promises to leave her alone.

They meet at her apartment and immediately hit it off. Jennie is recently divorced from a professional football player.  George explains how Leo has set him up on a number of disastrous dates, so he now finds himself pleasantly surprised to be with someone like her.  George asks her for a traditional date, she accepts and their whirlwind romance begins.

Leo is pleased and so is Faye, whose own marriage is on the rocks. To their astonishment, George and Jennie decide to get married after knowing each other only a brief time. Leo feels his brother is going much too fast. Faye asks to use Jennie's apartment while the couple is away on their honeymoon.

An idyllic trip to the Caribbean follows and George and Jennie are very happy, at least until another tourist who recognizes him extends condolences about George's deceased wife. He immediately sinks into a depression that continues through their return to New York. At his home, Jennie's attempts to cheer up George are met with curt responses and insults. She returns to her own apartment to discover that Faye is having an affair there with Leo.

The marriage appears to be over almost as quickly as it began. George comes to his senses just in time, realizing how much he loves Jennie and how he doesn't want to lose her.

####Chasing Amy####
Comic book artists and lifelong best friends Holden McNeil and Banky Edwards meet fellow comic book artist Alyssa Jones at a comic book convention, where they are promoting their comic "Bluntman and Chronic". Immediately attracted to Alyssa, Holden soon learns she is a lesbian. The two begin spending time together, and a deep friendship develops. Holden eventually confesses his love to Alyssa. She is initially angry with him, but that night, they sleep together and begin a romantic relationship.

This new development worsens matters between Holden and Banky, as Banky resents Alyssa for coming between him and his best friend. Banky uncovers dirt on Alyssa's past, telling Holden that Alyssa once participated in a threesome with two men. This upsets Holden, who has believed that he was the only man Alyssa had ever slept with, and he clumsily attempts to make her confess, leading to an argument. She angrily confirms the threesome but refuses to apologize for her past sexual experiences, wanting to continue their relationship. Holden leaves feeling unsure.

Later, while Holden has lunch with Jay and Silent Bob, Silent Bob reveals that he once had a relationship similar to Holden's. Though he loved his girlfriend Amy, her past promiscuity made him end the relationship. Later regretting it, he says he has "spent every day since then chasing Amy, so to speak."

Moved by Silent Bob's story, Holden devises a plan to fix both his relationship with Alyssa and his estranged friendship with Banky. He invites them over and tells Alyssa that he would like to get over her past and remain her boyfriend, while telling Banky that he realizes that Banky is gay and in love with Holden, proposing a threesome. Though initially shocked, Banky agrees to participate, but Alyssa refuses, reasoning that it will not save their relationship, and that the proposal is offensive. Alyssa and Banky both leave.

One year later, both Banky and Alyssa are busy promoting their own respective comics at a convention. It is revealed that Holden and Banky dissolved their partnership of "Bluntman and Chronic", the rights to which Banky now exclusively owns. Banky smiles sadly at seeing Holden, who silently congratulates him for his own solo comic being successful. Banky gestures over to a booth hosted by Alyssa, encouraging Holden to speak to her. During their brief emotional conversation, Holden gives her a copy of "Chasing Amy", his new comic based on their relationship. After Holden leaves, Alyssa's new girlfriend arrives and asks who she was talking to. Smiling and teary-eyed, Alyssa replies, "Oh, just some guy I knew."

####Choose Me####
After Mickey is released from a mental hospital, where his stories are perceived as lies, he returns to Los Angeles in search of a woman named Eve. When he arrives at the bar that bears her name, he is immediately attracted to the new owner, a former call girl also named Eve. She tells Mickey she bought the bar after the old owner killed herself, "over some guy". The bar is a popular spot for patrons looking for one-night stands, as well as prostitutes looking for potential clients. Although Eve is also attracted to Mickey, she refuses to commit to any one man, confessing to French radio talk show host Dr. Nancy Love that she ruined too many marriages to have one of her own. That night, Eve rebuffs Mickey's advances and sleeps with the bartender who has a crush on her, while avoiding the wealthy married man she is having an affair with.

That same night, Dr. Nancy Love answered Eve's ad for a roommate to share her house, and moves in the next day. Nancy conceals her identity and begins to observe Eve's romantic entanglements even  as she counsels Eve through her radio show. When Eve's married lover, Zack, calls looking for her, Nancy asks penetrating questions and begins dispensing relationship advice, despite the fact that she herself has been unable to maintain a successful relationship. Zack in turn resumes his pursuit of Eve, although his wife, Pearl, has begun to haunt Eve's bar hoping to catch him with her, unbeknownst to Eve.

Mickey returns to the bar the next night when he is unable to pay for a bus ticket home to Las Vegas. Pearl asks his opinion of a poem, and when she argues his interpretation, Mickey reveals that he taught poetry, as well as being a photographer and a former soldier. Eve is intrigued but cool, and Mickey leaves when Pearl offers to get him into a hot card game where he can obtain the money for a ticket home. When she drops him off, Mickey kisses Pearl and asks her to marry him, but she just laughs, calling him crazy, although she invites him to drop by her place, and gives him Eve's address and phone number. At the game, Mickey wins big, earning the ire of Pearl's husband Zack. Zack warns Mickey not to come back, before he goes to meet Eve, but Eve in turn sends Zack away, telling him their affair is over.

Mickey goes to Pearl's apartment to crash, and when he wakes up begins taking pictures as she sleeps. She is just waking up when Zack walks in, still stinging from Eve's rejection, and he attacks Mickey, pulling a gun and taking back the money he lost. He slaps Pearl after Mickey runs out, assuming they slept together.

Mickey calls Eve's house, and when Nancy answers pleads to come over and crash, hanging up before he realizes who she is. When he arrives, Nancy tells him Eve is not home, and while he is confused he welcomes the chance to bathe and eat when she allows him in. She snoops in his suitcase while he bathes, finding memorabilia showing the truth of his stories and travels. As he eats they talk about Eve, but sensing her loneliness he sweeps her into bed, then asks her to marry him and go with him to Las Vegas. Nancy laughs, but tells him she does not believe he is crazy. Then she tells him to leave before she goes to work.

Eve calls into Nancy's radio show from the office above her bar, torn between her attraction for Mickey and her fear of making another mistake. Nancy's post-coital euphoria overcomes her normal intellectual approach, and she encourages Eve to give in to, rather than resist, her feelings. So when Mickey comes looking for Eve that night, she is almost ready to give in when Zack appears and assaults Mickey again. Eve takes off while they are fighting, and when she gets home is suddenly confronted by Nancy, who tells her everything. Eve is devastated when Nancy proposes that they "share" Mickey's affection, and she tells Nancy she can have him, before rushing out.

Mickey goes back to Eve's house to recover his suitcase, and Zack finds him there and assaults him again. Mickey prevails, recovering the money and leaving with his suitcase. He tries to cadge a ride to the bus station, but spies Eve on the roof of the bar, and races up to see her. She pulls a gun and threatens to kill herself until he does the same; then she breaks down and they embrace.

Soon they are on a bus, on their way to Las Vegas, and when a fellow passenger asks if they are gambling, Eve reveals they are on honeymoon.

####The Circle####
In the 1890s, young Lady Catherine (Joan Crawford) decides to leave her husband, Lord Clive Cheney (Derek Glynne), and her son Arnold in favor of her lover, "Hughie" Porteous (Frank Braidwood). Thirty years later, young Elizabeth Cheney (Eleanor Boardman) is facing the same choice between her husband, the now grown Arnold (Creighton Hale), and her lover, Teddy Luton (Malcolm McGregor). Before going off with Teddy, however, Elizabeth wants to know how the love match between Catherine and Hughie has worked out, so she has invited them to the house while Arnold's now-aged father, Lord Clive (Alec B. Francis), is away on a hunting trip. Scenes of Catherine and Hughie driving toward the house, with only the backs of their heads visible, are intercut.

The prim and fussy Arnold is nervous about the impending visit, but when Lord Clive returns to the house unexpectedly just before Catherine (Eugenie Besserer) and Hughie (George Fawcett) arrive, the older man does not seem at all upset by their arrival. The former young lovers have not aged well. Catherine is flighty, trying to maintain a façade of youth, and Hugh is fat and cranky. Although the two bicker and complain during their visit, Elizabeth sees that they still have a strong bond of affection after thirty years together, and she vows to seek happiness with Teddy instead of the dull safety of marriage with Arnold.

Arnold (as well as Clive and the house butler) is aware that Elizabeth may elope with Teddy and seeks his father's advice. Clive cautions his son against acting too impetuously. Encountering Elizabeth, Arnold fails to offer a passionate response to her possible departure from his life. When Elizabeth asks Teddy how he would react if another man tried to take her he away, he says that he would blacken one of her eyes and close the other, which convinces her of Teddy's passion as Arnold watches, unseen by the two.

Clive talks with Hughie, believing that he has helped to save Arnold's marriage, unaware that Elizabeth and Teddy have driven away in a chauffeured car. The two try to kiss on the bumpy drive without being watched by the driver, who is wearing a cap and driver's goggles.  When the car seems to break down, the chauffeur reveals himself to be Arnold. He tells Teddy that he will blacken one of his eyes and close the other, and punches his rival. He then forces Elizabeth back in the car and returns to the house. After dinner, Arnold tells Elizabeth that it is time for bed. Outside the bedroom, he loosens his robe and strides in, closing the door. Meanwhile, Clive and Hughie, unaware of all of these developments, simply think that the foolishness of youth has been averted and break down in laughter with each other.

This ending is a distinct change from Maugham's play, which ends with Teddy and Elizabeth happily running off together.

####City Lights####
Citizens and dignitaries are assembled for the unveiling of a new monument to "Peace and Prosperity". After droning speeches, the veil is lifted to reveal the Little Tramp asleep in the lap of one of the sculpted figures. After several minutes of slapstick, he manages to escape the assembly's wrath to perambulate the city. He rebukes two newsboys who taunt him for his shabbiness, and while coyly admiring a nude statue has a near-fatal encounter with a sidewalk elevator.

The Tramp encounters the beautiful flower girl on a street corner and in the course of buying a flower realizes she is blind; he is instantly smitten. The girl mistakes the Tramp for a wealthy man when the door of a chauffeured automobile slams shut as he departs.

That evening the Tramp saves a drunken millionaire from suicide. The millionaire takes the Trampsndhis new best friendsndback to his mansion for champagne, then (after another abortive suicide attempt) out for a night on the town. After helping the millionaire home the next morning, he sees the flower girl en route to her street-corner. He gets some money from the millionaire and catches up to the girl; he buys all her flowers and drives her home in the millionaire's car.

After the Tramp leaves, the flower girl tells her grandmother (Florence Lee) about her kind and wealthy friend. Meanwhile, the Tramp returns to the mansion, where the millionairesndnow sobersnddoes not remember him and throws him out. Later that day, the millionaire is once again intoxicated and, seeing the Tramp on the street, invites him home for a lavish party. But the next morning history repeats itself: the millionaire is again sober and the Tramp is again out on his ear.

Finding that the girl is not at her usual street-corner, the Tramp goes to her apartment, where he overhears a doctor tell the grandmother that the girl is very ill: "She has a fever and needs careful attention." Determined to help, the Tramp takes a job as a street sweeper.

On his lunch break, he brings the girl groceries while her grandmother is out selling flowers. To entertain her he reads a newspaper aloud; in it is a story about a Viennese doctor's blindness cure. "Wonderful, then I'll be able to see you", says the girlsndand the Tramp is struck by what may happen should she gain her sight and discover that he is not the wealthy man she imagines. He also finds an eviction notice the girl's grandmother has hidden. As he leaves, he promises the girl that he will pay the rent.

The Tramp returns to work to find himself firedsndhe has been late once too often. A boxer convinces him to fight in a fake bout; they will "go easy" on each other and split the prize money. But the boxer flees on learning he is about to be arrested and is replaced by a no-nonsense fighter who knocks the Tramp out despite the Tramp's creative and nimble efforts to keep out of reach.

The Tramp encounters the drunken millionaire a third time and is again invited to the mansion. The Tramp relates the girl's plight and the millionaire gives him money for her operation. Burglars knock the millionaire out and take the rest of his money. The police find the Tramp with the money given to him by the millionaire, who because of the knock on the head does not remember giving it. The Tramp evades the police long enough to get the money to the girl, telling her he will be going away for a time; in due course he is apprehended and imprisoned.

Months later the Tramp is released. He goes to the girl's customary street corner but she is not there. We learn that the girlsndher sight restoredsndnow runs a busy flower shop with her grandmother. But she has not forgotten her mysterious benefactor, whom she imagines to be rich and handsome: when an elegant young man enters the shop she wonders for a moment whether "he" has returned.

The Tramp happens by the shop, where the girl is arranging flowers in the window. He stoops to retrieve a flower discarded in the gutter. After a brief skirmish with his old nemeses, the newsboys, he turns to the shop's window through which he suddenly sees the girl, who has been watching him without (of course) knowing who he is. At the sight of her he is frozen for a few seconds, then breaks into a broad smile. The girl is flattered and giggles to her employee, "I've made a conquest!" Via pantomime through the glass she offers him a fresh flower (to replace the crushed one he took from the gutter) and a coin.

Suddenly embarrassed, the Tramp begins to shuffle away, but the girl steps to the shop door and again offers the flower, which he shyly accepts. She takes his hand and presses the coin into it, then abruptly stops and her smile turns to a look of puzzlement as she recognizes the touch of his hand. She runs her fingers along his arm, his shoulder, his lapels, then gasps, "You?" The Tramp nods and asks, "You can see now?" The girl replies, "Yes, I can see now", and presses his hand to her heart with a tearful smile. Relieved and elated, the Tramp smiles back.

####Class####
Upon first arriving at prep school, Jonathan Ogner is mocked for wearing his school uniform. Then, going up to his dorm he meets his roommate, who introduces himself as Squire Franklin Burroughs IV but tells him to call him "Skip". Skip then takes off his bath robe, revealing a red bra and panties, then explains to the shocked Jonathan that it is tradition for seniors to parade around campus wearing only girls' underwear.

Jonathan doesn't have any, so Skip gives him a set from his dresser. They head out of the dorm together until they get to the final door where Skip stays behind and locks the door. The other students begin to laugh and mock Jonathan for wearing girls' underwear. Mortified, Jonathan tries to get back inside. After discovering all the doors are locked, he climbs a trellis leading into his room where he finds Skip rolling on the floor laughing.

Skip tries to tell Jonathan it was just a practical joke and to just laugh it off, but Jonathan is too embarrassed. Later, during lunchtime in the cafeteria, the other students again taunt Jonathan as he tries to eat. When Skip invites him over to his table to sit with him and his friends, Jonathan turns to reveal that he is crying. Skip is now deeply remorseful for pulling the prank on Jonathan as he flees the cafeteria.

When Skip returns to their room to apologize to Jonathan, he finds him hanging with a rope around his neck in an apparent suicide. Going to get help, on his return to the room, Skip and the gathering crowd find not Jonathan but a mannequin with a picture of the dean's face attached to its head. The crowd begins to crack up hysterically at Skip as the dean says he wants to see him and Jonathan in his office. As the crowd disperses, Skip finds Jonathan very much alive and laughing hysterically in the closet. He grudgingly accepts the prank reversal and they become fast friends. Afterwards they share secrets, and Jonathan confesses he cheated on the SAT.

After several failed attempts to find Jonathan a date, Skip vows to help him have a successful sexual encounter. He sends Jonathan to Chicago to gain sexual experience before their reputations are ruined. He is picked up by Ellen, a beautiful older woman, and begins an affair with her. He begins to fall in love with her, although she considers it to be just a fling. Jonathan lied, claiming to be a Ph.D. student. When he proclaims his love to Ellen during one of their sessions, she begins to have second thoughts about continuing. Her decision is finalized when she discovers Jonathan is both much younger than he had claimed, but he also attends the same school as her son.

Over Christmas break, Skip invites Jonathan to spend Christmas with him and his family at the Burroughs estate. Here, Jonathan discovers that Ellen is Skip's mother and is married. He tries to end the affair, but she contacts him several times. Eventually, he agrees to meet to talk. Lying to Skip, he claims to need time alone. When Jonathan and Ellen meet, they end up in bed again. Attempting to cheer up his friend, Skip and friends go to the hotel room. There they discover Jonathan in bed with Skip's mother, upsetting Skip. Later, the friends have a fist fight, but finally reconcile.

####Cocktail####
Cocky Brian Flanagan, just finished with his stint in the army, heads back to NYC and is eager to land a high-powered job in the business world. When he fails, he settles for work as a bartender while attending business school during the day.

Doug Coughlin, an older and experienced bartender, takes Brian under his wing and teaches him how to flair. They become friends, with Doug giving Brian the idea for a nationwide chain of bars called Cocktails and Dreams. Brian drops out of business school and they become popular bartenders at a trendy nightclub.

Eventually, their flairing act catches the eye of Coral, a wealthy photographer and she and Brian begin dating. Doug bets Brian that the relationship won't last and, unbeknownst to Brian, convinces Coral to sleep with him. After Brian finds out, he has a nasty fight with Doug in front of a full bar and dissolves their partnership.

Two years later, Brian is working at a beachside bar in Jamaica, hoping to save enough money for his own bar. He meets beautiful artist Jordan Mooney and they begin a passionate relationship. Out of the blue, Doug shows up, now married to the wealthy, flirtatious and much younger Kerry, and bets Brian that he can't attract Bonnie, a wealthy older woman. Brian accepts his challenge and wins Bonnie over. Jordan is devastated when she spots Brian and Bonnie drunkenly walking to Bonnie's hotel room. The next morning, Brian regrets the fling and seeks out Jordan, only to find she has left for the United States.

Brian returns to New York with Bonnie, hoping she will get him the corporate job he wants, but soon feels marginalized and resents her lifestyle. While attending an art exhibit, Brian has an altercation with the artist in front of Bonnie's friends, leading them to break up.

Brian tries to reconcile with Jordan, but she angrily refuses. When calmer, she reveals she is pregnant with his child and does not want him in her life because she does not want to be hurt again. After he tries again to talk to Jordan, a neighbor tells him she has moved into her parents’ upscale Park Avenue apartment. Jordan's father, Richard, tries to pay Brian off, but he refuses. Jordan explains that she hid her wealth because she wanted him to love her for who she was. To illustrate how little he cares about her money, he tears up her father's check and leaves.

Brian finds Doug on his new yacht and thinks he has finally achieved the financial success they both wanted. However, Doug tells him that when his business began to fail, he invested all of Kerry's money in commodities and lost her entire wealth.

When Brian takes Kerry to her apartment, she says she is bored with marriage and tries to seduce him, but he rebuffs her. He goes back to Doug's boat and finds him dead from suicide. Kerry mails a letter to Brian that was left for him by Doug, which turns out to be Doug's suicide note, explaining that his life was a fraud.

Distraught, but determined to win Jordan over, Brian tries to visit her, but is stopped by security who has been told by Jordan's father not to admit him. He fights his way up to the apartment, tells her of Doug's death and says he doesn't want to make the same mistake by being too proud to ask for help. He says his Uncle Pat has given him a loan to start his own bar and confidently predicts that he will be successful.

When Jordan still hesitates, Brian declares his love for her, that he wants to marry her and take care of her and their child. She agrees to take him back, but Richard interferes, leading to a fight where a security guard assaults Jordan. As they leave, Richard tells them they are on their own and Brian answers that he prefers it that way.

Brian and Jordan marry and he finally lives out his dream, opening his own bar, Flanagan's Cocktails and Dreams, with hopes of starting franchises across the country. At the grand opening, Jordan whispers that she is pregnant with twins. In his happiness and much to his Uncle's chagrin, he proclaims that drinks are “on the house” and the bar is open.

####Comet####
A nervous Dell, dressed in a suit, fidgets with a bouquet of flowers as he anxiously awaits an answer to his knock.

Dell flashes back six years, he's waiting in a long line in LA to get a spot in the cemetery to watch the meteor shower. Interacting with the teenager in front of him, we learn that his mother has been diagnosed with liver cancer, he works for a pharmaceutical company and is a narcissist.

Dumbstruck, like a deer in headlights by a woman's eyes, she warns him to get out the path of a speeding car. She is Kimberly, and her date's constant banter irritates Dell and soon he asks her for her number. Josh comes at him, so he backs off, but not before Dell can give him a few verbal jabs and pique her interest.

Dell flashes forward two years, where he and Kimberly are in a hotel room, preparing to attend her friend's wedding in Paris. She's frustrated as she needs their relationship to evolve to consider kids.

Back at the meteorite shower, Dell is in the dark, muttering to himself, describing her as beyond beautiful, real, perfect, funny and crazy as Kimberly bumps into him again. This time he tags alongside her, insisting they keep talking. Dell confesses that earlier, he had been telling himself aloud, ″Don't miss her,″ an example of his pessimistic foreboding of what might happen in five minutes. In contrast, Kimberly is focused on enjoying the moment, the now, as in being out in the open air under the stars. She shakes his offered hand, agreeing to trying out a relationship.

Flash forward to Paris, Kimberly is anguished thinking of their future. As he has pulled out an engagement ring and gets down on one knee, she's saying that when he says he  loves her it doesn't sound genuine. He quickly stands, before she can see him, sliding the ring back into his pocket.

Forward one year after their first breakup, we see Dell stalking Kimberly, buying train tickets on the same train heading north. Timeline back to Paris, the pair are hot and then cold. Dell frantically recovers the ring after it slid out of his pocket. She asks what he's hiding, but he doesn't tell. On the train again, Kimberly grows to trust him again, shortly before he's asked to disembark halfway before the original destination.

Small snipets of a mobile phone conversation between Dell in NYC and Kimberly in LA are interspersed between the train and Paris flashbacks. He hears in her voice that she's being untruthful. She confesses she's been on and off texting with Jack, the man she'd briefly dated after their first breakup. Upset, Dell is who does the breaking up, claiming to have never loved her, trying to inflict pain. Directly afterwards, a nurse calls Dell to inform him that his mother, who he'd saved from nearly fatal liver cancer four years ago, passed away from a heart attack.

In the Paris hotel room, Dell sits Kimberley on the bed. Silencing her negative thoughts, he details the things he's grown to love about her: overusing 'so', when wisps of her hair cover her face, her eyes... Simply knowing her the best thing that has happened to him. He then, in his relentlessly narcissistic way, says it's mostly because she likes him. As he turns to get the ring, she tells him he was almost successful.

The end of the six year timeline, like the other snippets, are interspersed throughout. Piecing them together, Dell has finally responded after months of Kimberley wanting to see him. It has been a long time they've not seen one another, since before their second, over-the-phone breakup. Using his keen observational skills, he correctly guesses she's engaged to Jack, as boxes are filled of worn kitchen paraphernalia, there's a photo of them and her ring finger has recently had a ring on it.

Dell tells her about his recent dreams, a non-chronological stream of mostly past events, and says he can't imagine being able to exist in the world without her love. The film fades to black.

####Conversations with Other Women####
At a wedding reception in New York, a man in his late thirties (Eckhart) approaches a bridesmaid (Bonham Carter) of about the same age, and offers her a glass of champagne. As conversation ensues, they begin to flirt. Witty small talk about such topics as the wedding party and their own past relationships gradually reveals to the viewing film audience that they are not strangers, but in fact were previously husband and wife. A series of flashback scenes shows much younger versions of the two of them together at the start of their relationship.

Despite both having significant others (22-year-old Sarah the dancer and Geoffrey the cardiologist, respectively, both absent), the couple go upstairs to her hotel room together. However, their decision to sleep together is one which is clearly complex and fraught with emotional baggage for each of them. Again with flashbacks, a series of vignettes juxtaposes their earlier selves against the older, perhaps wiser, couple in the hotel room.

The two reminisce and reassess their feelings for each other. He appears to have ambiguous feelings about the direction of his life, while she seems more adjusted to her life choices. The emotional fulfillment the two experienced in their youth has the appearance of causing them to reflect on their current lives in comparison to the choices and options they had while much younger.

She must catch a transatlantic flight home to London in the morning, so the two leave the hotel in the early morning. As they return to their separate lives, each speculates with their cab driver on the future and the difficulty of being happy.

####Cosmopolitan####
In an American suburb in Northern New Jersey, conservative, middle-aged Indian immigrant Gopal, a telephone-company engineer who has taken early retirement, is celebrating Diwali in November with his wife and grown daughter. His daughter suddenly tells him that she is leaving indefinitely to teach English in Mongolia with her German boyfriend. As Gopal recovers from this shock and tries to talk her out of it, largely on the grounds that she will be living in sin in his eyes, his wife Madhu announces that she is leaving him as well, and is taking up the spiritual life in an ashram in India.

Confused, mortified, bored, and directionless, newly single Gopal lies to his few Indian-American acquaintances about the situation, and refuses to answer his daughter's phone calls from Mongolia. He tries to cope with his emptiness by redecorating slightly, searching through the various corners of his small house, reading newspapers, and watching videos of Bollywood romance extravaganza films. Desperately lonely, he latches upon a copy of "Cosmopolitan" magazine that had belonged to his daughter, and takes a quiz gauging a man's suitability for a relationship – which reveals that he is a "Ditchable Dude".

In the midst of his distress and his Bollywood fantasies, Gopal's eccentric neighbor, the oddly attractive divorcée Mrs. Shaw – whom he had previously thought of as loose-moralled (because of her one-night stands) and slovenly – appears at his door asking to borrow one of his rakes. This sets off a whole new set of fantasies on his part. A few nights later Gopal sees her on her porch nursing a drink, and after a tentative conversation, asks her to have Thanksgiving dinner with him at home the next day. While cleaning and straightening for the date, Gopal finds several more of his daughter's "Cosmopolitan"s, and reads several articles on "What women want" from a man – evidently it is for them to "listen, listen, listen".

With the help of the advice gleaned from the pages of "Cosmopolitan," and to some extent in spite of it, Gopal and Mrs. Shaw (Helen) hit it off, and develop a warm, tender, intimate relationship. Mrs. Shaw is a high school counselor, and therefore a good and empathetic listener herself, and Gopal confides in her about his childhood dreams and sorrows.

But the relationship does not go exactly as Gopal had planned. On Christmas Day, when Helen gently rebuffs his insistence on his long-term vision for the relationship, Gopal is very upset and shouts at her to leave. He then holes up sullen and frustrated in his house, refusing all attempts at communication from her, and is visibly angry when he sees she has a male visitor nearly a week later.

On New Year's Eve, Gopal discovers Helen has left a Christmas gift for him, and it is something very meaningful to him. He breaks down, and something in him shifts – regarding the relationship, his family, and himself.

####Count Your Blessings####
While visiting Grace Allingham in wartime London at the behest of Hugh "Hughie" Palgrave, his friend, Charles is charmed by her and abruptly proposes marriage. They marry, but before their honeymoon, Charles reports back for military duty.

He reportedly is shot and taken prisoner. Grace waits for his return while raising their young son, Sigismond "Sigi". Charles returns after nine years, but over time, Grace comes to learn that during his long absence he has been seeing other women. She turns for comfort to her old love, Hughie.

A divorce seems imminent, while eight year-old Sigi is torn between the two parents and their very different ways of life. Because of their commitment to him, Grace and Charles ultimately reconcile.

####Curly Sue####
Bill Dancer and his young companion Curly Sue, an orphaned little girl who Bill took in as a baby, are the archetypal homeless folks with hearts of gold. Their scams are aimed not at turning a profit, but at getting enough to eat. One night, while sleeping at a shelter, Sue's tin ring, which was left to her by her late mother, is stolen and pawned by a drifter.

After moving from Detroit to Chicago, the duo succeed in conning a rich divorce lawyer named Grey Ellison into believing she backed her Mercedes into Bill, in hopes of a free meal. When Grey accidentally collides with Bill for real the following night, she insists on putting the two up for the night, even over the objections of her snotty fiancé Walker McCormick. After a confrontation with Bill exposing the truth of the con, Bill admits the truth and tells Grey it's time for him and Sue to be moving on. Thinking Bill has been abusing Sue by using her in his cons and scams, Grey demands that Sue stays with her when Bill leaves, but this only angers Bill, who tells Grey he will not leave Sue. He tells Grey that after all the years he looked after her, if he gave up Sue now, people would make fun of her for being on welfare. He tells Grey he cares about Sue genuinely, and that his cons are his only means to provide for her. Grey lets them stay for as long as they need when she understands the precarious position the homeless pair are in.

One night, Bill tells Grey he is not Sue's father, and how he met Sue's mother one night in Florida. He also tells Grey after Sue's mother died, Bill raised her himself, growing to love her like his own. Thus, when they lost their home and money, Bill could not find it in his heart to put Sue in an orphanage, so he took her with him. However, when it becomes apparent that Sue is completely unable to read or write (despite spelling a difficult word earlier), Grey begins to push even harder for Bill to leave Sue with her.

Eventually, Bill realizes this is where Sue belongssndin a home, cared for by someone who can give her the advantages his homeless, nomadic existence lacks. Walker eventually, out of spite, turns them in and Sue gets put into welfare, while Bill is arrested because of never actually having had custody of the child. While in jail, Bill encounters the drifter who stole Sue's ring, and forces him to reveal what he did with it. After this happens, Grey arrives to get Bill out of jail, and has also gotten Sue out of welfare.

After learning that the drifter took the ring to a pawn shop and sold it, Bill, now knowing where it is, goes there and buys it back after his release. Sue and Grey return to their apartment, and discover the ring, which Sue takes as a sign that Bill has decided the time has come for the two to part ways, leaving her with Grey. However, the ring is accompanied by a note saying he is in the living room. Sue is happy to find Bill, realizing the ring was actually a sign that he is going to give up his old lifestyle so he can stay with Sue and pursue a romance with Grey.

The pair legally adopt Sue, and Grey and Bill are subsequently married. The film ends with Grey and Bill dropping Sue off on her first day of school.

####The Cutting Edge####
Kate Moseley is a world-class figure skater representing the United States in the pairs event at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary. She has genuine talent, but years of being spoiled by her wealthy widower father Jack has made her impossible to work with.

Doug Dorsey is captain of the U.S. ice hockey team at the same Winter Olympics. Just minutes before a game, he and Kate collide in a hallway in the arena. During the game, Doug suffers a head injury that permanently damages his peripheral vision, costing him a shot to play in the NHL and forcing him to retire from ice hockey. During Kate's event, her partner apparently accidentally drops her, albeit with little sign of regret or concern, during their program, costing them a chance at the gold medal.

While training for the 1992 Winter Olympics over the next two years, Kate drives away all potential skating partners with her attitude and perfectionism. Her coach, Russian native Anton Pamchenko, has to find a replacement, an outsider who doesn't know that Kate is spoiled and difficult. He tracks down Doug, who is back home in Minnesota, working in a steel mill and as a carpenter on the side, living with his brother, and playing in a hockey bar league. Desperate for another chance at Olympic glory, Doug agrees to work as Kate's partner, even though he has macho contempt for figure skating.

Kate's snooty, prima donna behavior gets on his nerves immediately, and their first few practices do not go well as they antagonize each other. However, they develop a mutual respect as both strive to outdo each other in work ethic. As their relationship grows warmer, they learn to set aside their differences, becoming a pair to be reckoned with both on and off the ice. Kate even boldly defends Doug to her former coach who patronizes and insults them, and Doug defends his unusual choice of sport to his own family and friends, whom he had expected to mock him.

At the U.S. Nationals, despite strong performances in the short program and long program, they seem to place third, shattering their Olympic dreams. However, when one of the leading pairs falls during the competition, they advance to second place, earning their spot on the Olympic team. However, their potential is threatened by their growing attraction to each other. Kate attempts to seduce Doug after a night of drunken celebration, revealing that she broke off her engagement to wealthy financier Hale Forrest. Usually a ladies' man, Doug uncharacteristically rebuffs her advances, fearing the possibility of regret and loss of respect for each other.

When Kate discovers that Doug has bedded another woman (a rival skater) almost immediately after leaving her to sleep off her intoxication, she becomes enraged. However, the temporary rift is set aside as they attempt to train in a risky skating move invented by Pamchenko, which will assure them a gold medal if they can pull it off without serious injury.

At the finals at the Albertville Olympics, they look to be one of the top pairs competing for the gold. However, another argument threatens their chemistry on the ice, and in the process Doug and Kate both discover that Kate is the fallible partner after all. Before getting on the ice for their decisive performance, Doug professes to Kate that he has fallen in love with her, leaving Kate to overcome with emotion, and she decides they are going to do the Pamchenko. They proceed to skate with a passion neither had shown before, performing the Pamchenko flawlessly. Kate tells Doug she also loves him and they kiss each other before the cheering crowd.

####Dangerous Innocence####
On a ship sailing from England to India, Ann Church (Laura La Plante) meets young and dashing Major Anthony Seymour (Eugene O'Brien), falls in love and makes some innocent advances to gain his attentions.  Ann is 19, but looks 15.  The Major at first resists her advances because he believes she is that young, and later he holds back after learning that Ann's mother Muriel (Hedda Hopper) was his ex-girlfriend.  Another passenger, Gilchrist (Jean Hersholt) who is a cad, takes advantage of Ann's naiveté and places her in a compromising position.  To save her reputation, the Major proposes to Ann and she accepts.  When they arrive in Bombay, Gilchrist gets even by telling Ann that the Major had had an affair with her mother, causing Ann to break the engagement.  Angry, the Major follows Gilchrist off ship and thrashes him.  As she prepares to return alone to England, the Major forces Gilchrist to admit to Ann that the relationship between the Major and Ann's mother was platonic and never romantic. The young couple reunite and are later married at sea.

####Dean####
Dean lives in Brooklyn and has recently lost his mother. His father, Robert, is having difficulty adjusting to being alone. Dean's ex-fiancée Michelle tries to give back the ring, as Dean has "un-proposed", but he refuses.

Dean's best friend from college Brett is getting married, and is actually the "second best" man behind Kevin. Dean's cat-obsessed friend Eric has also come from Los Angeles for the wedding. At the wedding, Dean's ex distracts him, and he drops the wedding ring. At the reception, Dean begins his best man speech, but gets interrupted by Kevin, who tries to assault him.

The next morning, Dean's dad announces he is selling the house. To postpone, Dean uses an excuse of an LA trip to meet with an ad agency who want to use his drawings. Frustrated by Dean's lack of engagement, his father has already brought in realtors Carol and Patrick, who he incorrectly assumes are married. Later Robert sees Carol's online dating profile on her PC, and he uses it to flirt with her.

Meanwhile the advertising agency puts Dean off by their idea to use his work in a deodorant ad. Dean excuses himself and leaves. Calling his LA friends, including Becca and Eric, he goes to a party, where he meets Nicky. He is immediately attracted to her and pursues her clumsily, despite her friend Jill blocking him. He gives Nicky his number, written on small notebook paper in a "twentieth-century way."

As Dean is flying out, Nicky's text invites him to the beach, so he gets off the plane and heads to meet her. Finding each other, they go to dinner. He kisses her at the end of the night. After an unsuccessful meetup with Nicky and Jill at an art gallery, Nicky tells Dean that she and Jill are going to San Francisco, and he asks if he and Eric can tag along. Just before a hike, Eric gets a call about a cat emergency and insists on flying home immediately.

Robert and Carol have been dating in New York. Returning from a play, Carol invites him to her apartment for coffee, but he declines because he is "still married." Meanwhile, Nicky spends the night with Dean, where he confesses he thinks he is in love with her, then mentions the failed engagement and his mother dying. In the morning, Nicky leaves him a "twentieth-century style" letter at the front desk, apologizing for not telling him she is separated from a current husband.

Dean returns to New York and finishes his book. Robert now lives in an apartment in the city. Dean apologizes for not being there, and finally reconciles with his dad. Dean sends a message and signed copy of his book to Eric, telling him of what he's learned about loss and healing. Robert sees Carol walking in his neighborhood, and they walk on together.

####Dedication####
Henry Roth (Billy Crudup) is an obsessive-compulsive and somewhat misanthropic writer of children's books. His illustrator and only friend, Rudy (Tom Wilkinson), dies after a fabulously successful collaboration on their series of children's books about "Marty the Beaver." Henry is under contract to produce another "Marty the Beaver" book for Christmas sales. His publisher, Arthur Planck (Bob Balaban), assigns penniless, lovelorn illustrator Lucy Reilly (Mandy Moore) to work with Henry. She's being wooed by her ex-boyfriend Jeremy (Martin Freeman), who dumped her two years ago but shows up apologetic, having dedicated his new book to her. Lucy and Henry go to their publisher's beach house to work on the book. Will love bloom amid the rocks, or is Henry a bump on Lucy's road to Jeremy? Rudy's voice, from the grave, gives Henry counsel.

####Defending Your Life####
Los Angeles advertising executive Daniel Miller dies in a car accident on his 39th birthday, largely due to his distractedness, and is sent to Judgment City, a kind of a temporary paradise for the recently deceased. The city is a waiting area staffed by all-knowing and efficient but largely condescending bureaucrats who, having themselves moved on to their current new universal phase, mostly seem to gingerly look down on the new arrivals who will have their lives (or most recent lives) on Earth judged over a week-long or so hearing, each before two judges. Amenities and activities are provided, from delicious, calorie-free all-you-can-eat buffets to bowling alleys and comedy clubs.

Daniel's defense attorney, Bob Diamond, explains that people from Earth use so little of their brains that they spend most of their lives functioning based on their fears. If the court determines that Daniel has conquered his fears, he will be sent on to the next phase of existence, where he will be able to use more of his brain and thus be able to experience more of what the universe has to offer. Otherwise, his soul will be reincarnated on Earth to live another life in another attempt at moving past his fears.

At Daniel's tribunal, presided over by two judges, Diamond argues that Daniel should move onto the next phase, but his formidable opponent, prosecutor Lena Foster, takes the opposing argument. Each utilizes video-like footage from select days in Daniel's life to make their case to the judges.

During the procedure, Daniel meets and falls in love with Julia, a recently deceased woman who lived a seemingly perfect life of courage and generosity, especially compared to his, which also explains why her fancy hotel lodgings are so much nicer than his spartan motel-like room.

Following each day's proceedings, Daniel and Julia spend time exploring Judgement City, including the Pavilion of Past Lives (hosted by a version of Shirley MacLaine, famous for her outspoken belief in reincarnation), where people can see all their past lives, often quite shockingly dichotomous.

In the meantime, things do not go well for Daniel. Foster shows a series of episodes in which Daniel never managed to overcome his fears, as well as various other bad decisions and mishaps, while Diamond vigorously attempts to portray Daniel's actions more positively, sometimes praising his client's "restraint" and "thoughtfulness".

Before the last day of Daniel's hearing, Julia asks Daniel to spend the night with her, but despite his strong feelings for her, he declines. The next day, Foster plays footage of Daniel's previous night with Julia, over Diamond's objections. Foster argues this clearly underscores Daniel's fear and lack of courage. The next day, it is ruled that Daniel will return to Earth, while Julia is judged worthy to move on. Before saying goodbye, Diamond comforts Daniel with the knowledge that the court is not infallible and just because Foster won it doesn't mean she's right, but Daniel remains disappointed.

Daniel boards a tram poised to return to Earth when Julia yells to him from a different tram. He manages to desperately unstrap himself, claw open a door, and leap, dodging other trams, and suffering minor electric shocks to get to Julia's tram. She is unable to open the door and he is unable to enter her tram. He clings to the outside of the moving vehicle, banging on the door and trying to pry it open. She yells in vain for the driver to stop. They tell each other they love each other. The scene pulls back to show that the entire event is being watched by closed circuit TV by Diamond, Foster, and the judges in the chamber where Daniel's hearing took place. Diamond remarks to Foster, "Brave enough for you?", who gives him a slight smiling acknowledgement. One judge whispers to the other, who then sends a message ordering the tram doors opened. Daniel and Julia are reunited, applauded by the other passengers, and embrace as they are allowed to move on to the next phase of existence together.

####Definitely, Maybe####
Will Hayes works at an advertising agency in New York City and is in the midst of a divorce from wife Sarah. After her first sex education class, his 10-year-old daughter Maya insists on hearing the story of how her parents met. Will gives in, but changes the names and some of the facts, leaving Maya to guess which of the women from his past is Sarah, her mother.

In 1992, Will graduates from the University of Wisconsin–Madison and leaves behind his college sweetheart, "Emily Jones", to work on the Bill Clinton campaign in New York City. There, he meets "April Hoffman", a fellow campaign staffer, and delivers a package from Emily to her college friend, "Summer Hartley". The package is revealed to be Summer's diary, which Will reads, learning she had a brief affair with Emily. Summer is dating her professor, Hampton Roth, but spontaneously kisses Will.

He tells April his plan to propose to Emily, and rehearses his proposal; April replies, "Definitely, maybe." They go to her apartment where Will notices her many copies of "Jane Eyre". She explains that her father gave her a copy with a personal inscription shortly before he died, but the book was later lost. She has spent years searching secondhand bookstores to find it and collects any copy with an inscription. April and Will kiss, but he abruptly leaves. The following day Emily arrives but when Will tries to propose, she confesses that she slept with his roommate, and urges him to move on and pursue his ambitions.

After Clinton is elected, Will opens a political consulting firm, and stays in close touch with April as she travels the world. He encounters Summer, now a journalist and single, and they begin a relationship. April returns from abroad, planning to tell Will that she loves him, but discovers he is planning to propose to Summer. Will learns that Summer has written an article that will ruin his candidate's campaign. He asks her not to publish it, but she refuses, and Will ends their relationship. The article derails the campaign, losing Will his political career and friends.

Years later, April reaches out to Will, who has fallen into depression. She throws Will a birthday party, reuniting him with his old colleagues, but he quietly leaves the party early. Will then drunkenly confesses to April that he loves her, leading to an argument about the state of their lives. Passing a bookstore, he finds the inscribed copy of "Jane Eyre" April's father gave her. He goes to April's apartment to give her the book but decides against it when he meets her boyfriend Kevin, who is living with her. Will runs into Summer who tells him she's pregnant and invites him to a party where he reunites with Emily, who has recently moved to New York City.

In the present, Maya deduces that "Emily" is her mother. Maya hopes her parents will reunite, but Will assures Maya that she is the story's happy ending, before finalizing his divorce.

Unpacking in his new apartment, Will discovers April's book. He brings it to her, apologizing for waiting so long, but she asks him to leave. At Maya's urging, Will realizes he is miserable without April, whose name he didn't change in the story like he did to "Emily"/Sarah and to "Summer", whose real name is Natasha. Will and Maya go to April's apartment, and he tries to explain his reasoning to her, but she does not let them inside. Waiting in front of the door, Maya encourages Will to tell April the story, while April overhears the conversation through intercom. As Will and Maya walk away, April runs after them. Will explains that he kept the book as the only thing he had left of her. April invites them in to tell her the story, and she and Will kiss.

####Deliver Us from Eva####
Evangeline (Eva for short) Dandridge works for The Los Angeles Health Department as an inspector, a job most suitable for her bossy and perfectionist nature. She and her sisters—Kareenah, Bethany, and Jacqui—have been taking care of each other since their parents died when they were young. As a result of the combination of her personality and her family's circumstances, Eva's level of involvement in her sisters' lives causes a high level of tension between her and her sisters' significant others (Mike, Tim, and Darrell, respectively).

While the significant others are out at a bar complaining about how interfering Eva is, they come across Mike's old friend Ray Adams. Ray is a "Master Player" who can handle even the most difficult women. The guys hire Ray to seduce Eva and convince her to move away with him so they can finally be free of her meddling. Little do they know Eva has already been offered a new job in Chicago.

After a disastrous first date, Ray tells the guys that Eva is too difficult for even him to handle and offers to return their money. However, when he runs into Eva while at work delivering meat to local restaurants they make amends and begin a relationship. Eva and Ray fall in love, and Eva even temporarily abandons her shrewish ways. When things start to get serious, Eva's sisters all start comparing their relationships to Ray and Eva's relationship, making things even worse than before.

After they find out about Eva's job offer, the significant others panic and attempt to break up the blossoming romance, claiming their wives never let them hear the end of the latest with Eva and Ray, and that Eva intends to stay in the city. Things get so complicated that the men finally hatch a daring plan: kidnap Ray, lie to Eva about his death in an accident and cajole her into leaving the city.

Eva believes them and arranges a tearful funeral for her "dead" boyfriend. In the middle of the service Ray appears, having escaped his prison, and the whole truth comes out. An angry Eva dumps Ray and storms out of the church. After the whole ordeal, Ray tries numerous times to apologize to Eva and tells her that he truly loves her, but Eva does not want to hear it and still plans to move on without him.

Days later, she apologizes to Mike, Tim, and Darrell for meddling and being a huge pain and distraction for them and her sister's lives. She reveals that they dissolved and split their parent's inheritance and her sisters and their partners reconcile. Mike and Bethany become engaged. Eva leaves and starts her new life in Chicago.

One day after a meeting, Ray surprises Eva on a white horse in front of her boss and colleagues. Ray reveals that he left everything behind in Los Angeles to come and be with Eva in Chicago. He tells her that he can't live without her and will do whatever it takes to win her back. Convinced, Eva takes Ray back and they share a kiss before leaving on the white horse, ready to start their new lives together.

####Design for Scandal####
When wealthy newspaper publisher Judson M. Blair divorces his wife Adele, judge Cornelia C. Porter awards Adele alimony of $4,000 per month for five years or until she remarries. After learning from his lawyer Northcott that Porter refuses to hear an appeal, Blair is furious and unsuccessfully tries to wield his influence with Porter's boss Judge Graham to have Porter transferred.

Reporter Jeff Sherman, recently fired by Blair, offers a solution in exchange for a promotion, a raise, a bonus and an unlimited expense account. Blair accedes to all of his demands. Sherman convinces his manicurist girlfriend Dotty to pretend to agree to marry him in the near future. He then tries to romance Porter, intending to threaten her with an alienation-of-affections scandal to force her to reduce Blair's alimony burden.

When Porter takes a two-month vacation, Sherman follows her. Having researched Porter's interests, Sherman pretends to be a sculptor. To obtain an artist's studio in the fully booked resort town, Sherman persuades sculptor Alexander Raoul that Blair has offered him a commission to decorate his building. Sherman then begins to woo Porter. She considers him a nuisance, but he is eventually able to win her love. To his dismay, he finds that he has fallen for her as well.

Porter learns about the scheme before Sherman can confess, and has both Blair and Sherman arrested. At their trial, Sherman acts as his own lawyer and calls Porter to the witness stand, where he asks her to marry him. Under oath, she is forced to admit that she did love him at one point, and she runs out in tears. When Sherman chases after her, he is knocked down. Believing that he has been hurt, Porter rushes back to him, and they are reconciled. Blair becomes irate when he discovers that after he had convinced his ex-wife to agree to a lump-sum settlement, she promptly married another wealthy magnate.

####Desire####
In Paris, Madeleine de Beaupre cons jeweler Aristide Duvalle and psychiatrist Maurice Pauquet by telling each man that she is married to the other. Duvalle delivers a string of pearls worth millions of francs to Pauquet's office, expecting to be paid, but Pauquet thinks he is a new patient who has delusions of needing to collect debts. Madeleine is there to introduce them to each other, and departs with the pearls before they figure out what she has done.

While driving to the Spanish border, Madeleine splashes mud onto Tom Bradley, an American automotive engineer vacationing in Europe. Then as they approach the border, her car's horn control sticks "on", to the annoyance of the customs officers. Tom fixes it and they go into the office together.  Luggage and purses are being inspected, so she decides to hide the pearls in his jacket pocket. On the road, she pulls ahead of Tom, then disables her own car so that he will have to give her a lift.

But he has changed jackets. She says she is going to San Sebastián, and he offers to drive her there. En route she seizes an opportunity to steal his car, leaving him standing in the road—along with the suitcase his other jacket is in. She then crashes the car while evading police.

They make their way separately to San Sebastián. There "Countess" de Beaupre meets her accomplice, supposedly her uncle, "Prince" Carlos Margoli. Tom locates Madeleine with the help of a policeman, who cannot imagine that a charming countess would steal a car and does not even stay to see if Tom identifies her as the thief.

As it seems that Tom still has the pearls but does not know it, Carlos quickly offers to pay for the car, and Madeleine pretends to be attracted to him. They all become friendly and go together to stay at Carlos's villa. There, when Tom wears his other jacket, Carlos gets the pearls from him using another trick.

Carlos now wants Madeleine to accompany him to Madrid to sell them, but she has actually fallen in love with Tom, and wants to leave the gang instead. Despite the attempts of Carlos and "Aunt" Olga, another gang member, to break them up, they become engaged.

After Carlos and Olga taunt Madeleine about being unable to tell Tom the truth about herself, she throws caution to the wind and does just that. They steal the necklace back from Carlos and return to Paris, where Madeleine returns it to Duvalle. He personally forgives her, but says she must still face the authorities. The final scene is Tom and Madeleine's wedding, where her parole document is accidentally shown, proving that she has done so. Pauquet and Duvalle, who now is his patient, attend the wedding as witnesses.

####Destination Wedding####
Two middle-aged people, Frank and Lindsay, meet and then argue while waiting to board their flight at the airport. They are both annoyed when they realize they are seated next to each other. Their annoyance increases when they learn they are on their way to the same destination wedding in Paso Robles. Frank and Lindsay know of each other. The groom, Keith, is Frank's half-brother and Lindsay's former fiancé. When they arrive at Paso Robles, they find they are staying in adjoining rooms at an inn. On their way to the inn, Frank reveals that he does not want to go to the wedding, and Lindsay reveals that she is attending the wedding to get closure from her relationship with Keith which ended six years ago. Frank runs marketing for J.D. Power and Associates, and Lindsay is a prosecutor; they both heavily criticize each other's jobs. At the rehearsal dinner on Friday night, they are seated next to each other and isolated from everyone else. They talk about the other guests. Frank shares his negative opinions of his family members along with the difficult history between them.

The next day, some activities, including a wine tasting, are planned before the wedding that night. Frank and Lindsay do not participate in the activities and instead spend that time talking to each other. Lindsay says she still loves Keith. Frank does not understand why she has not moved on. He says love is pointless, and Lindsay argues it is not. Frank says his family history has ruined his life, and Lindsay says he should get over it. They continue their conversation through the wedding that evening and criticize the other people there. During the dance afterward, they leave and walk together through the countryside. They run into a mountain lion, and Frank scares it off by making some loud noises. They try to run away but then fall and end up on the ground together. Lindsay thanks Frank for saving her life, and they kiss. After another discussion, they have sex. They then go back to Frank's room at the inn and spend time together in bed, talking, drinking, eating, and watching television. Frank compliments Lindsay's physical appearance, and she compliments his. Lindsay tells Frank she likes him and wants to be in a relationship with him. Frank refuses, saying a relationship between them would not work out. He is still convinced love is pointless. They argue but eventually fall asleep together.

On Sunday morning, they both leave the farewell brunch early and go to the airport. During their flight home, Lindsay keeps trying to convince Frank they should be together. She says it was a miracle two people like them made a connection and he should have some hope a relationship could work. Frank counters her arguments by saying it would not work and they should not try. He says he is content with being alone. Their plane lands, and they agree to not exchange contact information. Lindsay says her address out loud as Frank sees her off in a taxi. They both go back to their respective homes. That night, someone rings Lindsay's doorbell. She opens the door to see Frank standing there, and she smiles.

####The Diary of a Teenage Girl####
In 1976 San Francisco, 15-year-old aspiring cartoonist Minnie begins keeping an audio diary. She is stirred by her awakening sexuality and wants to lose her virginity. She fears she may be unattractive.

When Minnie's bohemian mother Charlotte is too busy to go out with her boyfriend Monroe, she suggests he take Minnie out instead. At a bar, they flirt and she tells him she wants to sleep with him. They begin meeting at his apartment and having sex. She shares the details of her sexual experiences with her friend Kimmie, and records them in her audio diary.

At a comic book store, Minnie sees cartoonist Aline Kominsky signing books. She mails Aline her first comic, about a woman walking through town.

Minnie sleeps twice with her schoolmate Ricky, but he finds her sexual enthusiasm intimidating. At a bar, Minnie and Kimmie decide to pose as prostitutes. They fellate two boys in the bathroom, but the next day agree it was a bad choice. Minnie's stepfather, Pascal, calls from New York City and invites Minnie to live with him, but she declines.

Charlotte loses her job as a librarian. So, Minnie and her younger sister Gretel ask Pascal for money, and though he is irritated, he sends the family a check. After a wild party, Minnie, Kimmie, and Monroe have a threesome. Kimmie later says it was a one-off as Minnie seems bothered by it. She adds, it's not as if Minnie loves Monroe.

Minnie realises, and says, that she does love him. She becomes increasingly uncomfortable with her affair with Monroe and he keeps breaking it off saying it is wrong only to continue having sex with her. Yet, when she wants sex, he acts too tired or pushes her down to give him a blow job. Her own satisfaction is a minor consideration.

Minnie goes round to confront Monroe but he says he didn't sleep the night before and needs a nap. Minnie is annoyed but lets him climb into bed. She lies down too and then he coaxes her into talking dirty about a guy she met at the cinema and then asks if it would hurt her if they were to have sex.

After they have sex and take acid together, Minnie sees herself covered in feathers and flying but Monroe has a bad trip, convinced they are being watched. During the trip he tells Minnie he loves her and she realizes that she no longer cares for him. Monroe begins making plans for them to be together when she is 18 and Minnie leaves him.

Charlotte grows suspicious of the relationship between Minnie and Monroe, but he convinces her that she is imagining things.  Charlotte discovers Minnie's audio diary, and confronts them. She decides that Minnie and Monroe must now marry, which he agrees to. Minnie runs away from home in disgust and begins seeing a risk-taking lesbian, Tabatha. When Tabatha brings her to a drug dealer, having told him that Minnie will have sex with him for the drugs, Minnie returns to her family.

Minnie finds a letter from Aline encouraging her to draw more comics. Selling her comics and zines on the beach, Minnie runs into Monroe. She is cold towards him, and they go their separate ways. She reflects on her emotional growth and realizes that the only way to find happiness is by loving herself, not by depending on another person's affection.

####Dinner at Eight####
New York City society matron Millicent Jordan is overjoyed when she receives word that Lord and Lady Ferncliffe, the richest couple in England, have accepted her invitation to her upcoming dinner party. However, her husband Oliver, a shipping magnate, finds Lord Ferncliffe a bore. Their daughter, Paula, is preoccupied with the impending return of her fiancé, Ernest DeGraff, from Europe.

Oliver asks Millicent to invite legendary stage actress Carlotta Vance, who has just arrived from Europe. A former lover of Oliver's, Carlotta confesses to him that she is nearly penniless and is interested in selling her stock in the Jordan Shipping Line, but he lacks the funds, as his business has been severely affected by the Great Depression.

"Nouveau riche" magnate Dan Packard, a former miner, agrees to consider helping Oliver, but later brags to his young, gold-digger wife, Kitty, that he plans to take over the Jordan Shipping Line through crooked stock purchases. Oliver convinces Millicent to invite the Packards. While Kitty eagerly accepts the invitation, Dan refuses to go, but changes his mind when he learns that Lord Ferncliffe will be in attendance.

On the morning of her dinner, Millicent loses the "extra man" she found for Carlotta. She telephones Larry Renault, a washed-up silent film star, and extends a last-minute invitation, unaware that Paula is in his hotel room. Larry and Paula have been having an affair for a month, but he wants to end it, citing their age difference (he is 47 and she is 19) and the fact that he is a three-time divorcé. Paula insists that she loves him, planning to tell her family and Ernest about their affair. Carlotta, who is staying in the same hotel, sees Paula leave Larry's room.

Larry, a hardened alcoholic, is on the brink of physical and economic collapse. His agent, Max Kane, tells him that the stage play he was set to star in has a new producer, Jo Stengel. Stengel decided to cast another actor in the lead role, but is willing to consider Larry in a bit part.

The Jordans' physician and friend Dr. Wayne Talbot has been having an affair with Kitty on the pretext of tending to her feigned illnesses. On the day of the dinner, his wife, Lucy, catches him in a compromising telephone call with Kitty. Talbot admits that he is a serial adulterer and vows to overcome his impulses. Lucy is surprisingly understanding, and the two kiss. Talbot receives a visit from an ailing Oliver, who is diagnosed with terminal thrombosis of the coronary arteries. At home, Oliver tries to tell Millicent that he needs to rest, but she is too hysterical to pay attention to him because, among several domestic disasters, the Ferncliffes have canceled.

During a vicious fight, Kitty spitefully reveals to Dan that she is having an affair. When threatened with divorce, she demands that he back down from his takeover of the Jordan Line and treat her with more respect, or else she will sabotage his potential Cabinet appointment by exposing his crooked deals. Defeated, Dan storms off.

Before he leaves for the dinner, Larry is visited by Max and Stengel. Upon discovering that the role being offered to him is that of a dead man, Larry drunkenly insults Stengel, who leaves in haste. Frustrated, Max forces Larry to face reality by bluntly asserting that he has no future in show business, before leaving. To make matters worse, the hotel manager tells Larry he has until the next day to leave. Larry, in utter despair, commits suicide by turning on his gas fireplace.

The dinner guests arrive at the Jordans' mansion. Carlotta informs Paula that Larry has killed himself, consoling the young woman as she breaks down in tears. Millicent learns about Oliver's health and financial setbacks. Realizing her own selfishness, Millicent tells Oliver that she is willing to adopt a more frugal lifestyle. As the guests are about to go in to dinner, Kitty pressures Dan to tell Oliver that he has saved the Jordan Line.

####Dirty Beautiful####
Film buff David moves to Los Angeles to become a screenwriter, but struggles to complete his scripts and is relegated to working as a storyboard artist. He forms a friendship with fellow writer Nicole through workshops, only for their friendship to abruptly end when he makes a romantic pass at her. David's life changes, however, when a young woman named Kat forces herself into his car. After Kat reveals that she is homeless, David reluctantly allows her to live with him.

Despite her erratic behavior and troubled past, David finds himself drawn to Kat and they start to become intimate. Kat informs David that after she came to Los Angeles from Idaho with a man she loved, but he abandoned her, and she admits resorting to prostitution to survive. The two nearly separate when Kat arranges to start working for a pimp named Armstrong, but David, unable to abandon her, ensures that she returns to his apartment.

David and Kat grow closer, culminating with Kat becoming pregnant. However, Kat refuses to change her lifestyle and continues to consume alcoholic beverages. Recognizing that they are not prepared to raise a child, David convinces Kat to get an abortion. Shortly afterwards, Kat destroys David's screenplay notes. A heated argument between the couple ensues and Kat leaves David to return to Idaho.

With Kat gone, David finally gains the inspiration to complete his first script about their time together and resumes his friendship with Nicole. After David remarks that his life is better without Kat, he receives a call from her revealing that she has returned to Los Angeles. David initially refuses to take Kat back to his apartment, but eventually he relents allows Kat to live with him again.

####The Dish & the Spoon####
Rose (Greta Gerwig) leaves her cheating husband (Adam Rottenberg) and runs into a boy (Olly Alexander), in a desolate beachside building at a boarded-up beach town in Delaware in the fall. He has been dumped by a girl he had traveled from England to be with.

Rose takes him along with her, and in a series of quirky vignettes, she and the boy learn how to fish, cast a rod, dance, get drunk, dress up, have their wedding picture taken, get in a fight, and share a kiss.

Initially they coincide in a forlorn lighthouse and Rose tries to get him to a hospital, but later she drags him along as she looks to confront her former friend Emma (Eleonore Hendricks), for betraying her with her husband. They first go to a beer bottling plant where Emma used to work, they then go to her parents' summer house. The rest of the day, she leaves him there while she awaits Emma at her home.

He puts up with odd role play scenarios. Other than the hunting down of the cheater, he is at Rose's side as she screams down the line at her cheating husband. He allows her to dress him up as a woman so she can play the part of the macho male.

They spend the following morning on a fishing boat, catching a large fish. The following day they have a vintage photo taken of them in wedding clothes, as her fantasy the previous night was of their getting married and having 10 kids who look like him. She essentially finishes their dream relationship when she shows him her future burial plot. He gets them costumes to participate in a country dance held that Sunday, where she is able to physically confront Emma.

Together they learn what everyone in a seasonal town already knows: the seasons change; and, this too shall pass.

####Le Divorce####
Isabel Walker travels to Paris to visit her sister Roxy, a poet who lives with her husband, Frenchman Charles-Henri de Persand, and their young daughter, Gennie. Roxy is pregnant, but her husband has just walked out on her without explanation. Isabel discovers that he has a mistress, a Russian woman named Magda Tellman, whom he intends to marry after securing a divorce from Roxy. Roxy refuses to divorce him.

Roxy is also in possession of a painting of Saint Ursula by Georges de La Tour; the painting belongs to the Walker family, but due to her marriage to Charles-Henri and French community property laws, the ownership is disputed between the two families. The Louvre deems the painting worthless and concludes that it is not a real La Tour. However, the J. Paul Getty Museum takes an interest in the painting and its curator believes that the painting was done by La Tour himself.

Paris-based American author Olivia Pace, a friend of Roxy's, offers Isabel a job. Isabel also meets Yves, Olivia's protégé, and they begin dating. The sisters visit Charles-Henri's family's country home for Sunday brunch, where Isabel meets Charles-Henri's mother Suzanne and her handsome middle-aged brother, Edgar Cosset. Isabel is attracted to the older, wealthy and married Edgar and they begin an affair, although Isabel continues to string Yves along. Edgar begins to send Isabel various gifts, including an expensive red Kelly bag by Hermès, which Isabel carries with her at all times. During a visit to Isabel, Suzanne discovers the Kelly bag, after which she realizes that Edgar is having an affair with Isabel.

Charles-Henri maintains a blasé attitude about his infidelity and insists on a divorce. He also hopes to benefit from the French community property laws in the divorce, especially with regard to the La Tour painting. His mistress Magda is married to a man named Tellman, who begins to stalk and harass Isabel and Roxy, believing the latter to be responsible for his wife's desertion. Charles-Henri's cruelty and insensitivity take their toll on Roxy, and she attempts suicide in late pregnancy. She survives and is supported by Isabel and her lawyer Bertram.

Roxy and Isabel's family arrive from the United States to support the sisters, and to also discuss the divorce proceedings and the ownership of the La Tour painting. Things are further complicated when Edgar's wife, Amélie, discovers the affair through Suzanne. Following a brunch with both families, Suzanne and Amélie privately inform Isabel's mother about the affair; she later confronts Isabel with this information.

During an outing, Magda and Charles-Henri tease Tellman with their new relationship. Later, they are both murdered by Tellman in a crime of passion, with Charles-Henri's body being found in Roxy's apartment complex. Roxy and Bertram come upon the scene and the stress causes her to go into labor. Tellman then follows Isabel and her family on an outing to the Eiffel Tower, where he corners them and pulls a gun, demanding an opportunity to explain to Roxy why he killed her husband. After some persuasion, the distraught Tellman releases the gun to Isabel, who puts it into the Kelly bag and throws it off the Eiffel Tower.

Edgar, persuaded by his socially conscious family's concern, and tiring of his young lover, casually ends his affair with Isabel over lunch, with the gift of a Hermes scarf. Afterwards, Isabel begins a real relationship with Yves. After Roxy's baby is born, she marries Bertram. The family attends an art auction where the La Tour painting sells to The Getty for 4.5 million Euros. Because its ownership is no longer disputed due to Charles-Henri's death, the money goes to the Walker family, who then go on to establish the "Fondation Sainte Ursule" (The Saint Ursula Foundation).

####Don Jon####
Jon Martello is a young Italian-American and modern-day Don Juan living in New Jersey. He enjoys his independent life, which consists of working out, caring for his apartment, driving his 1972 Chevrolet Chevelle SS, going to church with his family, and engaging in a casual sex life. Though he enjoys sex, he is more satisfied by masturbating to hardcore pornography.

While at a nightclub with his two best friends, Jon becomes enamored with Barbara Sugarman, a beautiful young woman from an affluent background. Despite heavy flirting, she declines his offer for a one-night stand. Finding her on Facebook, Jon invites Barbara to lunch. There is mutual attraction, but she insists on a long-term courtship and demands that he always be honest. Their relationship proceeds over a month and without sex. Barbara encourages Jon to take a nighttime community college class to obtain a career outside the service industry, and he indulges her love of romance films, which he usually dismisses as fantasy. They meet each other's friends and families, and Jon's parents are immediately smitten by Barbara.

Jon and Barbara finally have sex, but he is still dissatisfied. He considers her body perfect, but still finds porn more satisfying. Barbara catches Jon watching porn, but he manages to convince her that it was a joke email sent by a friend. Their relationship resumes, with Jon concealing his habit from Barbara as it becomes an addiction.

After class, Jon catches Esthersnda middle-aged classmatesndweeping by herself, and when she sits next to him just before the next class to explain herself, she catches him watching porn on his cell phone. She teases him about watching this type of video, but he brushes her off.

Before the next class Esther shocks Jon by handing him an erotic video which she believes has a healthier depiction of sex, and after class they wind up having sex in her parked car. She asks why he loves porn so much, and he reveals that he wants to get lost in sex, but cannot do that with a partner. Esther persuades Jon to try masturbating without porn, but he is unable to. They continue having casual sex and Esther expresses the belief that Jon enjoys sex alone because he has not found a real intimate connection with a romantic partner and focuses merely on his own satisfaction. After suggesting they take a bath together, Jon finds Esther crying in the hall and she reveals that her husband and son died in a car crash just fourteen months prior. The intimacy of this moment deepens their emotional connection, and Jon experiences truly satisfying sex for the first time in his life.

Jon tells his family about the breakup with Barbara. While his parents are upset, his sister Monica bluntly tells him that Barbara's demands showed that she wanted to date someone who allowed her to control him. Jon meets with Barbara and apologizes for lying to her. They discuss her expectations, which he asserts were unattainable, and she tells him not to call her again.

Although she is considerably older and neither of them has any interest in marriage, Jon and Esther happily begin dating and lose themselves when being intimate.

####Don Juan DeMarco####
John Arnold DeMarco is a 21-year-old man who dresses like Zorro, with a similar mask, hat and cape and claims to be Don Juan. After a passionate affair, he decides to commit suicide. At the site of the billboard he plans to jump off of, psychiatrist Jack Mickler dissuades him by posing as Don Octavio de Flores. John is then held for a ten-day review in a mental institution.

Mickler, who is about to retire, insists on doing the evaluation and conducts it without medicating the youth. Mickler listens to John's story continuing to pose as Don Octavio: Don Juan was born in Mexico, he has an affair with his school tutor which ultimately leads to the death of his father in a swordfight. Mickler listens to the story while spotting inconsistencies, such as the Castilian nature of John's accent, but continues to humor him.

At home, Mickler is living in a passionless marriage to his wife, Marilyn. As Mickler notices that John's presence at the institution is having an impact on the staff – both distracting the women and dancing with a male attendant on the lawn – he finds himself being influenced, and starts listening to opera in his house and rekindling the passion with his wife.

Eventually Mickler meets with John's grandmother, who tells him that John grew up in Phoenix, Arizona, and that his father died in a car crash. When Mickler returns to the institution and confronts his patient with this information, John dismisses his grandmother as misanthropic and of making the backstory up. In response Mickler recounts the story of an insecure young man who fell in love with a woman in a magazine, who then contacted her and was told she never wanted to speak to him again. When John asks what happened to the young man, Mickler tells him he tried to commit suicide.

As the ten days tick down, and pressure mounts on Mickler to support the youth's indefinite confinement, a decision which he is skeptical of. John has mentioned that his mother became a nun and remains in the convent to this day, and in a subsequent meeting with John, Mickler suggests that John's mother could have possibly had affairs, to which John responds with violent anger.

John concludes his story, about how he was kept two years in a harem as the lover of the sultaness, before finding true love and being rejected on a remote Greek island by his one true love, Doña Ana. Mickler tells him at the story's end that he believes John is Don Juan DeMarco, the greatest lover the world has ever known. When John asks Mickler who he is, he says "I am Don Octavio de Flores" and that John has seen through all of his masks.

At the end of the ten days, Mickler is able to convince John to take his medication, and makes him understand that not everyone believes he is Don Juan. Right before his retirement, Mickler and John meet with the board, with John in street clothes. He speaks with an American accent, and acknowledges that he was born in Queens, his father was killed in an accident, and that his mother was unfaithful to his father. John is released and accompanies Mickler, along with the doctor's wife, to the remote island that Don Juan has described where he met his true love.

####Dopamine####
Rand is a computer animator, who has created an artificial intelligence creature designed to interact with children and teach them responsibility. When his prototype is forced into practice at a school, Rand encounters Sarah, a teacher he was inexplicably drawn to, at his favorite bar one fateful evening. Sparks fly between them, but fundamental differences in their approaches to love and relationships slow them down to a halt.

####The Dressmaker from Paris####
As described in a film magazine review, an American soldier billeted in Paris meets a student of fashion design. She falls in love with him. Back in America, for the purpose of exhibiting recent fashions, she is brought to the small town in which he manages a department store. Her mannequins accompany her. She surprises him and their romance continues.

####Drumline####
The story revolves around Devon Miles, a teen who has just graduated from high school in New York City. Upon graduating, Devon heads to Atlanta, Georgia to attend Atlanta A&T University, a historically black college that takes enormous pride in its marching band. En route to A&T, Devon befriends fellow band mates Charles, Jayson, and Ernest. Devon was personally invited to attend on a full scholarship by Dr. Lee, head of the band, for his prodigious talents. The A&T band separates itself from its competitors by requiring all members to read music, by focusing on various styles of music rather than what is currently popular on the radio, and by dedication to the teamwork emphasized "one band, one sound" concept. Preseason band camp is physically and mentally challenging, designed to push members past what they previously thought were their limits. At the end of preseason, the musicians audition for spots on the field, and Devon is the only freshman to make P1, the highest-level player. While going through this rigorous process, Devon also finds time to romance an upperclassman dancer, Laila.

College life starts well for Devon, as he has a girlfriend and a spot on the field. Things begin to sour when Sean, Devon's percussion leader, begins to grow weary of his cocky attitude. Sean later challenges Devon to take a solo in his first game, believing the freshman will panic and be embarrassed in front of everyone. Sean is shocked and subsequently humiliated when Devon takes the solo, upsetting Dr. Lee. As punishment, Dr. Lee orders Sean to clean the drums. This sets up some tension in the drumline which is exacerbated when Dr. Lee is told by President Wagner, the school's president, to change his focus from music to entertainment, otherwise he could potentially lose his funding. Lee does not want to give Devon more playing time because of his lack of respect and selfish attitude. Upon learning he lied on his college application about knowing how to read music, Devon is demoted to P4 by Dr. Lee until he learns, then later put back on P1 when Wagner pressures Dr. Lee to do so. However, after inflaming a melee with a visiting band at A&T's homecoming game after Devon plays on an opposing band member's drum (a serious insult in drumline mythos), Devon is expelled from the band by Dr. Lee. The fight also strains his relationship with Laila, as she is embarrassed to introduce him to her parents, who attended the game.

Devon contacts A&T's rival school Morris Brown College, to discuss playing for their band next season. Mr. Wade, Brown's band leader, says that Devon does not need to know how to read music and will likely get a full scholarship and a good position on the drumline. When Wade wants to know what Dr. Lee is planning for the BET Big Southern Classic (a large competition of college bands), Devon realizes Mr. Wade was merely trying to use him to steal A&T's performance plans, and that his heart and honor are still with the A&T band. Disgusted with both Mr. Wade and himself, he rejects the scholarship offer from the rival band and returns to A&T.

Though Devon is still not playing for the band, he refuses to give up his drumming. After receiving cassette tapes from his estranged father, Ray, Devon gets inspiration for new drum arrangements. As Devon goes to present these ideas to the band, he and Sean have a final confrontation that clears the air and they begin to work together. The two present their idea for an entrance cadence to Dr. Lee who decides to use them for the Classic. Devon helps the band prepare for the Classic and patches up his relationship with Laila. In appreciation for all his help getting the band ready for the Classic and impressed with Devon's maturing and growth, Dr. Lee tells Devon he can return to the band the following school year.

At the Classic, the bands are shown performing a mixture of popular songs. Morris Brown's band even gets rapper Petey Pablo to perform during their routine. A&T is not fazed by this and performs their mix of retro and current sounds. A tie results in the Morris Brown and A&T drumlines facing off against each other. Dr. Lee allows Devon to play for this face-off, showing his faith in Devon's improved character and in thanks for all the hard work he has done in getting the band ready for the Classic. Morris Brown goes first and A&T responds. Morris Brown's second cadence includes their snares moving forward and playing on the A&T drums (the same move that incited the fight at A&T's homecoming game), then throwing down their sticks. The A&T line manages to hold their composure in the face of the insult. They play their cadence and, in the middle, throw down their sticks, mimicking the Morris Brown actions, but then the entire line pulls out another set of sticks and continues playing. They end their routine in the faces of the Morris Brown drumline, but instead of playing on their drums, the line all drop their sticks onto the other drumline's drums. The judges award the win to A&T.

####Dumbbells in Ermine####
In a small town in Virginia, Barbara Kent, is being forced into a marriage with a missionary reformer by her socially prominent parents. Kent meets Robert Armstrong, a prizefighter, and falls in love with him. Armstrong's manager, played by James Gleason, tries to dissuade Armstrong from the relationship.

Nevertheless, Kent's grandmother, played by Beryl Mercer, and her uncle, played by Claude Gillingwater, do their best to help the romance between Kent and Armstrong. Eventually Kent and Armstrong quarrel, and this leads Kent to agree to her mother's request that she marry the missionary (Arthur Hoyt). When the missionary invites some weak sisters to a revival meeting one of them, a showgirl, accuses him of being responsible for her downfall.

Because of this, the missionary is publicly disgraced and the marriage cancelled. Gleason helps Armstrong become reconciled with Kent and they marry with the blessings of the family.

####Dummy####
Steven Schoichet is a recently unemployed ne'er-do-well who has difficulty expressing himself. Steven finds he has a knack for ventriloquism. Steven's best friend is Fangora "Fanny" Gurkel, an aspiring punk rock singer who, along with Steven, is just looking for her niche. Eventually, Fanny takes a shine to klezmer music when she learns of an opportunity to get an actual gig. Through his newfound talent, Steven discovers that he is able to overcome his social problems through his dummy and decides to try impressing and winning the heart of Lorena Fanchetti.

####Easy A####
The story is narrated by Olive Penderghast, a 17-year-old high school girl living in Ojai, California, speaking into her webcam.

Olive lies to her best friend, Rhiannon Abernathy, about going on a date in order to get out of camping with Rhiannon's hippie parents. Instead, she hangs around the house all weekend listening to Natasha Bedingfield's 2008 song "Pocketful of Sunshine" from a musical greeting card her grandmother sent her. The following Monday, Rhiannon presses Olive until she lies about losing her virginity to a college boy. Marianne Bryant, a devout Christian whom Olive considers to be prudish, overhears her telling the lie and it soon spreads throughout the school. The school's church group, run by Marianne, decides to "save" Olive from her supposed promiscuity. Olive confides the truth to her friend Brandon, who is bullied by other students for being gay. Brandon asks Olive to pretend to have sex with him at a party so the other students will believe he is straight, to which she agrees.

After a fight with Rhiannon over her new reputation as a "dirty skank", Olive decides to counteract the harassment by embracing her new image as the school tramp, wearing more provocative clothing and stitching a red "A" onto her clothing, inspired by Hester Prynne from Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1850 novel "The Scarlet Letter". Boys who have had no previous luck with girls beg Olive to increase their popularity by saying they have had sex with her, which she does in exchange for gift cards to various stores. Things get worse when Micah, Marianne's boyfriend, contracts chlamydia from sleeping with Mrs. Griffith, the school guidance counselor, and blames Olive. As Mrs. Griffith's husband, Mr. Griffith, is Olive's favorite teacher, she accepts the blame to spare their marriage.

The church youth group, which now includes Rhiannon, begins harassing Olive in an attempt to get her to drop out of school. Olive is asked out on a date by Anson, Rhiannon's crush, which ends badly when Anson tries to bribe Olive to actually have sex with him and not just pretend that she did. Olive later reconnects with Todd, her childhood crush and the school mascot, who tells her he does not believe the rumors because she lied for him when he was not ready for his first kiss years ago. Olive decides to ask everyone she lied for to help her by telling everyone the truth, but nobody is willing to relinquish their newfound popularity. When Mrs. Griffith also refuses to tell the truth, Olive threatens to expose her affair, but Mrs. Griffith says no one would believe her. Out of spite, Olive immediately tells Mr. Griffith, who subsequently separates from his wife.

After talking with her open-minded mother, Olive comes up with a plan - she does a song-and-dance number at a school pep rally to get people's attention and tells them to watch her webcast later that night, promising an online sex show with Todd when in reality, it is the webcast that has served as the narrative device for the film. As she is finishing up her webcast, Todd comes by her house riding a lawn mower. She signs off by saying that she may lose her virginity to Todd sooner or later, but declares that "it is nobody's goddamn business." Olive texts Rhiannon and apologizes for lying to her. She goes outside to meet Todd and the two share a kiss before riding off on the lawn mower.

####Edge of Seventeen####
Sandusky, Ohio, 1984: Eric Hunter is a Eurythmics-obsessed, musically driven teenager coming to terms with his sexual identity. When Eric and his best friend, Maggie, accept summer jobs in food service at the local amusement park, they befriend their lesbian manager, Angie, and a gay college student named Rod. Sparks fly between the two boys, even as Maggie waits patiently in the wings for Eric's affections. Eric and Rod eventually go on a date that ends at a motel, but then Rod promptly heads back to Ohio State. The encounter leaves Eric to have mixed feelings, but he is now more sure of his sexuality.

After beginning his senior year of high school, Eric starts to change up his appearance by letting Maggie dye the top half of his hair blonde, and wearing edgier and more effeminate clothes. This raises eyebrows with his loving parents, but Eric learns that his mom is going to get a part-time job at a local movie multiplex to help send him to study music in New York. While at a party with Maggie, several guys from their school call Eric gay slurs that cause him to leave. Later that night, Eric ventures out to the local gay disco "The Universal", a hopping joint run by none other than his old boss, Angie, who tells him not to worry about what everyone else thinks. He dances with a guy who takes him out to his car where the guy gives Eric a rim job, but then leaves shortly afterwards. Stung by a meaningless sexual experience, he calls Rod, who at first seems happy to hear from him, but then tells Eric that he probably shouldn't call him anymore. Eric then goes to Maggie's house where he finally tells her that he is gay. Maggie does not seem to be that surprised since she suspected Eric's relationship with Rod, but she comforts him nevertheless.

Eric starts visiting the bar frequently, where he feels accepted by Angie and her close circle of friends. While waiting to meet up with Maggie one night, Eric clicks with a local college student named Jonathan. When Maggie finally comes to the club, she is heckled by Angie's friends for being Eric's "fag hag", and leaves. Eric follows Maggie, but she is upset at him for previously leading her on. Eric goes back to the club to find Jonathan, only to discover that he is already gone. He goes to the Ohio State dorms in hopes of finding him, but decides to find Rod instead. They go back to Rod's room where they have sex. Eric is shown to be uncomfortable during it, and leaves after Rod falls asleep.

When Eric goes home, he is ambushed by his mother, Bonnie, about his recent behavior and appearance, and says that people are getting the wrong idea about him. Eric leaves, and goes to see Angie. While at her house, Angie explains to Eric that it is difficult to accept yourself for who you really are, and that he should give himself some time. He reconciles with Maggie, but quickly realizes that it was a mistake after sleeping together. Crestfallen at his rejection and his willingness to toy with her affections, Maggie ends the friendship. After she leaves, Eric's mother confronts him about a pair of matches she found in his clothes that were from the bar. He quickly denies ever going to the Universal, and leaves. When Eric finally comes home, he finds his mother playing on the piano. He comes out to her; feeling a weight being lifted off his shoulders.

Eric later goes back to the bar just as Angie begins to sing. The film ends with Eric and Jonathan reunited as they watch Angie perform. It is loosely implied that after high school, he will go off to New York City for college and live the life he wants to live.

####Elizabethtown####
Drew Baylor is a shoe designer for Mercury, a global sportswear company. When his latest shoe, meant to be his great life accomplishment, is found to have a flaw, it costs the company $972 million, and Drew is shamed by his boss, Phil, before he is asked to speak to the press—his future unknown and likely finished at Mercury.

Disappointed in his failure, and the subsequent breakup with his fair-weather office girlfriend, Ellen, Drew stacks his expensive clothes and other valuables on the street for scavengers to take, then prepares to commit suicide. He stops at the last moment to answer a persistent phone caller, who turns out to be his sister, Heather, telling him that his father, Mitch, has died while visiting family in Elizabethtown, Kentucky. When his mother, Hollie, refuses to go because of a long-time dispute between her and the Kentucky Baylors, who are bitter about Hollie and Mitch moving to the West Coast, Drew volunteers to retrieve his father's remains and plans to go through with the suicide upon his return.

On the flight to Kentucky, Drew meets flight attendant Claire, who is managing the almost completely empty 747. To make her shift easier, she strikes up a conversation with Drew and invites him to move up to first-class seating. Depressed about his work failure, he tries to ignore the bubbly, quirky Claire who has nothing to do on the flight except talk to him incessantly about Kentucky and alludes to her boyfriend, "Ben", who is a workaholic. At the end of the trip, Claire gives him a paper with directions, helpful tips, and her phone number to help him get to his destination before they part. Drew dismisses Claire, who seems to be trying to get the last of his attentions as he seeks the airport exit.

Arriving to Elizabethtown, Drew is met by the family. He makes arrangements for cremation at his mother's request, despite the family's objections. While staying at a hotel, where a raucous bachelor party and wedding reception is being held, Drew calls his mother and sister, then his ex, Ellen, as he struggles with boredom and depression. Finally, he calls Claire, who is also alone because Ben is away working, and they talk for hours. She impulsively suggests they meet at sunrise, before she has to depart on a flight to Hawaii. They have a quiet, platonic moment, and then they part ways as she leaves for her trip.

Drew struggles between the family members and his mother's demands regarding burial arrangements. His mother is manically attempting self-improvement to compensate for the loss of her husband. Claire suddenly appears at the hotel, claiming Drew's needs for help outweigh her needs for a tropical vacation. They tour various parts of Kentucky and she helps him at the funeral home, picking out the urn and keeping Drew emotionally on track.

During a post-dinner discussion with the older family, Drew sees the stovetop flame and panics about the cremation. Rushing to the funeral home, he is too late to stop his father's cremation. Solemn, he takes the urn back to the hotel, where Claire has crashed the bachelorette party. Things lead to their physical conclusion in his hotel room, but Drew is still wrapped up in his job and self-pity and they part on strained terms.

Hollie and Heather arrive for the service, and Hollie, with newfound self-confidence, makes a breakthrough with the family with a standup comedy routine and a farewell tap dance to Mitch. Claire arrives, and tells Drew to take a final trip with his father, giving him a binder box with customized itineraries and mix CDs for the road trip. Drew follows Claire's map home, spreading his father's ashes at memorable destinations along the way until he reaches the "World's Second Largest Farmer's Market" in Nebraska. There, a series of notes and clues gives him a choice: to either follow the map home or to go in a new direction, searching for the "girl in the red hat." He finds Claire, they kiss, and Drew realizes he loves her.

####Empire Records####
At independent record store Empire Records in Delaware, employee Lucas has been tasked by store manager Joe with closing the store for the first time. While counting the day's receipts in Joe's office, he discovers the store is about to be sold and converted into a branch of "Music Town", a large national chain.

Determined to keep the store independent, Lucas hatches a plan, taking the day's cash receipts of approximately $9,000 to a casino in Atlantic City to quadruple it playing craps. Though successfully doubling the money on his first roll, he loses everything on the second.

The following morning, fellow Empire employees A.J. and Mark find Lucas, who confides in them about the previous night's events, just before riding off on his motorcycle. Joe arrives and quickly receives frantic phone calls about the missing deposit from both the bank and the store's owner, Mitchell Beck.

Other employees arrive, including overachieving high school student Corey and her uninhibited best friend Gina. Hostile employee Deb, who has survived an apparent suicide attempt, also arrives. Deb then goes into the bathroom and shaves her head.  Upon Lucas' arrival, Joe confronts him about the missing deposit, and Lucas confirms the money was lost. Joe explains his anti-"Music Town" plan to the employees &ndash; he had saved enough money to become part-owner of the store to save it, but will now be $9,000 short as he must cover the missing money with Mitchell.

Joe is distracted from the crisis due to a major store event: Rex Manning Day. The washed-up 1980s pop idol is holding an autograph session at the store for fans of his latest album "Back with More". The unenthused staff mock both Manning and the event, and ultimately many of the fans showing up to meet him are either older women or gay men.

Though detained by Joe in his office, Lucas nonetheless apprehends a belligerent young shoplifter who identifies himself only as "Warren Beatty". He is taken away by police but vows to return seeking revenge. Encouraged by Gina, Corey indulges her schoolgirl crush on Manning by attempting to seduce him, but winds up humiliated and dejected; A.J. then chooses this inopportune time to confess his love to Corey, which she rejects. After Gina and Corey argue, Gina has sex with Manning. When the staff discover this, A.J. attacks Manning, Gina reveals Corey's addiction to amphetamines, Corey hysterically trashes the store, and Joe tells Manning to leave.

Deb surprisingly attempts to cheer Corey up, and in return she holds a mock funeral for Deb with the whole staff. The shoplifter "Warren" returns with a gun (ultimately loaded with blanks), and Lucas defuses the situation by revealing that he himself was a troubled youth until he was taken in and saved by Joe. He in turn offers "Warren" a job at the store.

After the police leave, Lucas admits defeat, and suggests confessing the truth about the missing money to Mitchell. However, the staff try to replace the missing money but can raise only $3,000. Suddenly inspired, Mark runs in front of the news crew covering the holdup, announcing on live TV a late-night benefit party at the store to "Save the Empire". An impromptu concert on the roof by Gina and Berko, another employee, raises funds so Joe can hand the money raised to Mitchell for the lost amount. Mitchell offers to sell the store "cheap" to Joe not wanting to deal with the store anymore.

Corey finally finds a dejected A.J. on the roof fixing the Empire Records sign, and confesses that she loves him too. He decides to attend art school in Boston to be near her while she attends Harvard. They kiss, and the staff ends the long day with a dance party on the roof.

####Enchanted April####
At Hampstead Court Housewives Club, two women sit in the living room with a fireplace. Outside it's raining. One of the women reads a book (a biography of Madame Du Barry); the other woman is nervously looking around the room and finally decides to look up the newspaper. When she sees a certain announcement, she has to talk, saying to the other woman how beautiful it would be to leave dreadful London and go south to Italy, renting a Castle for two or more people and splitting the costs. So they find the way to San Salvatore, and the Enchanted April is there from the very minute they arrive.

Their husbands and lovers are soon popping up and passing by, and the Italians who know, understand the English people. A mixture of slapstick comedy and on the other side the rarefied figure of Ann Harding.

####The English Teacher####
Linda Sinclair (Julianne Moore) is a high school English teacher in the small town of Kingston, Pennsylvania. She is passionate about her subject and popular with her students, but lives alone in simple circumstances. Cursed with a hopeless romantic soul, she lives in a world of men unable to match her impossible standards.

When her former star pupil Jason Sherwood (Michael Angarano) returns after graduating from NYU's playwriting program, crushed and insecure after failing to succeed, Linda and drama teacher Carl Kapinas (Nathan Lane) convince him to produce his play at the school. Jason's father, Dr. Tom Sherwood (Greg Kinnear), pressures him to attend law school instead, which he finally relents to with no other prospects in sight.

Complications arise after Linda and Jason, in a moment of impulsive creative madness, have a sexual encounter on her classroom desk. Various jealousies and rumors ensue, affecting her and everyone around her including the production of Jason's play. When the school heads are confronted with proof of her indiscretion with a former student, Linda is fired on the spot.

Embarrassed, Linda hurries off, gets into a minor car collision, and ends up at a hospital where she's attended to by Dr. Sherwood. She is moved by his gracious manner after having been mean to him on a previous occasion. She guiltily admits to having had sex with his son.

With news of advance-ticket sales of beyond $18,000 for Jason's play, the principal backtracks, persuading Linda to return and resume directing duties so the play may go on. However, the school heads require a new ending for the play as the current one is considered overly violent and fear parents will be outraged by its dark themes of murder and suicide. Jason feels betrayed and refuses to rewrite the play's ending, so Linda is forced to come up with a suitable replacement herself. She manages to write an improved ending which appeases the school and Jason (when he sees the play is a success).

Jason moves on to write further plays as Linda eases back into teaching and regaining her reputation. Sometime later, Linda runs into Jason's father at her favorite bookshop. Catching up over coffee, both realize they'd totally misread each other previously. Grateful for all she has done for his son, and pleasantly surprised they have much more in common than previously thought, Tom invites Linda on a further proper date, and she, somewhat hesitantly, accepts.

####Entergalactic (TV special)####
Jabari is a charming, streetwear-clad artist on the cusp of real success. After a chance run-in with his cool new photographer neighbor, Meadow, Jabari has to figure out whether he can make space for love in his life.

####The Escort####
Journalist Mitch is a sex addict. When he is fired, he applies for a job with a magazine. The editor promises to hire him if he writes a more interesting article than his competitors. He decides to write about Natalie, a Stanford-educated escort he met by chance. She is not interested at first, but after a violent encounter with a client, she allows him to accompany her and provide security. Mitch learns that Natalie also tutors school children in mathematics, she finds out about his sex addiction, and they become friends. When he visits his father and sister, he presents her as his girlfriend. She stands up for him when his father puts him down for not having achieved much, and she tells him that she was Internet-bullied because of a sex journal she wrote in college and cannot get a regular job. They have sex that night, and Mitch shows signs of jealousy when he accompanies her to her next clients. He picks a fight with one of them, and he and Natalie fall out. He later confesses his feelings for her and tries to make up with her, but she refuses.

At first Mitch does not want to go through with his article about Natalie, but the editor encourages him to, and the story becomes a success, which impresses his father. Mitch gets the job and joins a self-help group for his sex addiction. Finally, Natalie contacts him, tells him that she has given up prostitution, is enrolled in an MBA program and intends to start a legitimate tutoring business, and admits she loves him too. They start a relationship.

####Even Cowgirls Get the Blues####
Sissy Hankshaw is a woman born with a mutation (she would not call it a defect) giving her enormously large thumbs. Sissy makes the most of her thumbs by becoming a hitchhiker. Her travels eventually take her to New York City, where she becomes a model for a homosexual feminine hygiene products mogul, known as "The Countess". A few years later, he introduces her to his "beauty ranch", the Rubber Rose Ranch. The main plot revolves around the cowgirls who work at the ranch after they violently take over and drug the endangered whooping cranes that nest along the lake on their land, making the once migratory birds stay. The cowgirls end up in a showdown with government agencies because the cranes will not leave the ranch and the cowgirls refuse to allow the men on the ranch to take the cranes. Sissy and the ranch leader, Bonanza Jellybean, have a brief love affair. After a fatal shootout between the cowgirls and the various agencies, the cranes leave, and Sissy takes over running the ranch.

####Falling Up####
Nursing student Henry O'Shea (Joseph Cross), who suddenly finds himself the 'head' of his family, after the death of his father, takes a leave from school to support his mother, getting a job as a New York doorman. As a former nursing student, Henry has occasion to help Scarlett (Sarah Roemer), a resident's daughter, with some difficult situations involving his medical knowledge.  After Henry saves Scarlett's boyfriend from dying of an overdose, she takes him out to thank him for his help and they make a connection. Shortly after, Scarlett's mother (Mimi Rogers) happens to be going through Scarlett's digital camera, and finds pictures of them together.  She immediately calls Henry's boss and has Henry fired.

When Scarlett finds out, she admonishes her mother and promises to date whomever she pleases, regardless of station in life.  She attempts to find Henry, but is unsuccessful.  Hank's sister Kate shows up in the lobby of the building and insists upon talking to Scarlett, who accompanies her for a walk in the city, and they discuss Henry's job and his future.

Meanwhile, Henry finds out his mother is working at a sex shop in the city. While he's freaking out about the job she chose, Scarlett shows up and tries to rekindle what they started on their date.  Henry rejects her, saying she's too much for him because of her socioeconomic status in contrast to his.

Not long after, Henry is walking around the city lamenting his station in life and the dressing down he received from his mother regarding his attitude toward his own worth and the worth of his family, and realizes he made a mistake with Scarlett. He goes to the front desk of the building Scarlett lives in, and Raul (another doorman, played by Snoop Dogg) tells him Scarlett went to a club in the city with her family.

After being denied entry by the doorman, he sneaks into the club and dresses up as a chef to get some face time with Scarlett.  After causing a scene, he gives a rousing, 'we belong together,' speech and Scarlett leaves with him.

####The Family Man####
Jack and Kate, who have been together since college, are at JFK Airport, where he is about to leave to take up a twelve-month internship with Barclays in London. She fears the separation will be detrimental to their relationship and asks him not to go, but he reassures her, saying their love is strong enough to last, and he flies out.

Thirteen years later, Jack is now a bachelor living a carefree life as a Wall Street executive in New York City. At work, he is putting together a multi-billion dollar merger and has ordered an emergency meeting on Christmas Day. In his office, on Christmas Eve, he gets a message to contact Kate, but, even though he remembers her, he dismisses it, apparently uninterested.

On his way home, Jack is in a convenience store when a young man, Cash, enters claiming to have a winning lottery ticket worth $238, but the store clerk refuses him, saying the ticket is a forgery. Cash pulls out a gun and threatens him, so Jack offers to buy the ticket and Cash eventually agrees.

Outside, Jack tries to help Cash, to which he responds by asking Jack if anything is missing from his life. Saying he has everything he needs, Cash enigmatically remarks that Jack has brought upon himself what is now going to happen, and walks away. A puzzled Jack returns to his penthouse and sleeps.

On Christmas Day, Jack wakes up in a suburban New Jersey bedroom with Kate and two children. He rushes out to his condo and office in New York, but both doormen refuse his entrance and do not recognize him. Jack runs out into the street and encounters Cash driving Jack's Ferrari. Although Cash offers to explain what is happening, all he says is a vague reference to "The Organization" and that Jack is getting "a glimpse" that will help him to figure out for himself what it's about.

Jack slowly realizes that he is living the kind of life he might have had if he had stayed in the United States with Kate as she had asked. He has a modest family life, where he is a car tire salesman for Kate's father and she is a non-profit lawyer. Jack's young daughter, Annie, thinks he is an alien but a friendly one and assists him in fitting into his new life. With a few setbacks, he begins to succeed, bonding with his children, falling in love with Kate again and working hard at his job.

Taking advantage of a chance meeting when his former boss, chairman Peter Lassiter, comes in to have a tire blowout fixed, Jack uses his business savvy to impress Lassiter, who invites Jack to his office, where Jack worked in his 'other' life.

There, after a short interview, Lassiter offers him a position. While he is excited by the potential salary and other perks, Kate argues that they are very happy and they should be thankful for the life they have.

Having decided that he now likes this 'other' life, Jack again sees Cash, now a store clerk. He demands to stay in this life, but Cash tells him there is no choice: "a glimpse", by definition, is an impermanent thing. That night, Jack tries to stay awake, but fails and wakes the "next day", Christmas Day, to find himself in his original life.

Jack forgoes closing the acquisition deal to intercept Kate, finding her moving out of a luxury townhouse before flying to Paris. Like him, she has focused on her career, and has become a very wealthy corporate lawyer. She had only called him to return a box of his old possessions. Jack chases after her to the airport and, in an effort to stop her leaving, describes in detail their children and family life.

Intrigued, she eventually agrees to go with him for a coffee. From a distance, they are seen talking inaudibly and laughing over their coffees.

####The Family Stone####
Set in the fictional town of Thayer, New England, the film focuses on Everett Stone and his rambunctious family. Meredith, Everett’s anxious and bumbling yet refined and educated girlfriend, is dreading spending the Christmas holidays with Everett's family.

Everett's tightknit family respond awkwardly, and soon coldly, to Meredith's stiffness, making her feel like even more of an outsider. Ben, Everett's brother, is the only one who seems to like Meredith. After a series of embarrassing moments, Meredith opts to stay at the local inn and begs her sister Julie to take a bus down to Thayer and join her for support. Everett finds himself drawn to the friendly, more outgoing Julie, whom his family receives very warmly, after Julie has a fall while getting off the bus. Meredith desperately tries to fit in with the Stones, but her strained attempts prove disastrous. During dinner, Everett's gay, deaf brother Thad and his partner Patrick express their plans to adopt a child, prompting a discussion about nature versus nurture and sexual orientation. When Meredith clumsily attempts to engage in the conversation, her choice of words offends everyone and Everett's father Kelly, the most understanding of the family, angrily shuts her down. Distraught, Meredith attempts to drive off but crashes Everett's car, and Ben comes to comfort her. Ben's attraction to Meredith is apparent and the two of them end up at a local bar where, after several drinks, Meredith begins to enjoy herself. She invites Amy's high school flame and local paramedic, Brad Stevenson, to the Stones' house for Christmas breakfast. The next morning, she awakens in Ben's bed and incorrectly assumes that they had sex.

On Christmas Day, the Stone children learn that Sybil, their mother and a breast cancer survivor, recently developed an aggressive recurrence of the disease. Sybil, who originally refused Everett's request for his grandmother's ring to propose to Meredith with, reconsiders her position and offers it to him; but, by now, his feelings for Meredith have shifted to her sister Julie. In a moment of emotional confusionspaced ndashor clarityspaced ndashhe asks Julie to try on the ring, and it gets stuck on her finger. When Julie and Meredith lock themselves in the bathroom to get the ring off, they assume Everett is about to propose to Meredith. The family exchanges gifts and Meredith, unaware of Sybil's failing health, presents each family member with a framed, enlarged photograph of Sybil taken when she was pregnant with Amy. Everyone is touched by her gesture and Meredith relaxes slightly; but, when Everett asks to talk to her, she blurts out that she will not marry him. He counters that he didn't plan to ask her, and Meredith emotionally breaks down in front of the family. All the personality conflicts come to a head, and everyone begins the process of healing.

One year later, the family reunites again for Christmas. Meredith and Ben are a couple, as are Everett and Julie, and Amy and Brad. Thad and Patrick have adopted a baby boy named Gus, and Susannah, the oldest daughter, has had another baby boy named Johnny. It is implied that Sybil passed away over the previous year, and the family remembers her as they gather around the Christmas tree.

####The Five-Year Engagement####
In San Francisco, sous-chef Tom, and PhD graduate Violet, are happily engaged. Their wedding plans are interrupted when Tom's best friend Alex gets Violet's sister Suzie pregnant at Tom and Violet's engagement party, and Alex and Suzie quickly marry. When Violet is accepted into the University of Michigan's two-year post-doctorate psychology program, Tom agrees to move with her and delay their wedding, but is disheartened to learn his boss planned to make him a head chef.

Unable to find a suitable chef's position in Michigan, Tom is resigned to working at Zingerman's and takes up hunting with Bill, a fellow university faculty spouse. Violet settles into her new job under professor Winton Childs, working with Doug, Ming, and Vaneetha. A prank results in Violet being chosen to lead the team's research project, studying people who choose to eat stale donuts rather than wait for fresh donuts to arrive. Tom and Violet's nuptials are further delayed when Winton receives funding from the National Institutes of Health with Violet's help and extends her program. Tom is upset by the news, and he and Violet fight over his unhappiness with their new life.

As years pass, Tom becomes disillusioned and obsessed with hunting. Alex, Suzie, and their daughter Vanessa visit, and reveal Suzie is pregnant again. Tom responds that he no longer wants to have a child, surprising Violet, who offers to look after Vanessa with Tom, but the night turns into a disaster after Vanessa shoots Violet with Tom's crossbow. Tom's downward spiral becomes evident when Violet sees him eat a stale donut. At a bar with colleagues, a drunken Violet and Winton kiss, which Violet instantly regrets. She tells Tom that she wants to plan their wedding immediately, and he happily agrees. When Violet confesses to kissing Winton, Tom loses faith in their relationship, which reaches a climax when Winton comes to their rehearsal dinner to apologize. Tom chases Winton away and leaves to get drunk alone. He runs into Margaret, an amorous co-worker, but opts not to have sex with her, and wakes up half-naked in the snow with a frostbitten toe, which is amputated. Violet visits Tom at the hospital, and they call off their engagement once they arrive home.

Violet starts a relationship with Winton but often reminisces about Tom, who wishes her a happy birthday via email, including a video of Ming's ridiculous experiment on his friend Tarquin. Violet calls Tom, who has returned to San Francisco, working as a sous-chef under Alex and dating the hostess, Audrey. Their friendly-but-awkward conversation takes a turn as they argue over Violet's stale donuts experiment as a metaphor for their relationship, and both end the call upset. Realizing Tom's unhappiness, Alex fires him out of love, telling him that he is the better chef and should open his own franchise, and Tom launches a popular taco truck.

Violet receives an assistant professorship but learns she was hired because she is dating Winton, and breaks up with him. After lunch with his parents, Tom decides to win Violet back and breaks up with Audrey. He surprises Violet at her grandparent's funeral in England, and they agree to spend the remainder of the summer together in San Francisco, rekindling their relationship while sharing an apartment and working in the taco truck.

Driving Violet to the airport, Tom offers to take his truck to Michigan and continue their relationship. Violet proposes to Tom at the side of the road, just as he did five years before, and Tom reveals the ring he originally gave her, explaining that he was planning to re-propose at the airport. They head to Alamo Square, where Violet has organized their family and friends for an impromptu wedding. Tom chooses between Violet's various options for the officiant, clothing, and music, and they finally marry. Tom and Violet share their first kiss as a married couple, and the film flashes back to their first kiss when they first met at a New Year's Eve party. Alex and Suzie sing “Cucurrucucú paloma” on a carriage ride with the newly-wedded couple.

####Flight Angels####
"Ace" commercial airline pilot Chick Faber (Dennis Morgan) is grounded by Flight Superintendent Bill Graves (Ralph Bellamy) when a flight physical reveals that his eyesight is failing. Aided by stewardess Mary Norvell (Virginia Bruce) and her friend, Nan Hudson (Jane Wyman), Graves persuades Chick to take a job as teacher in the school for stewardesses. While he remains at the airline, along with engineer, Artie Dixon (Wayne Morris), he continues work on the design of a secret research aircraft, he calls the "stratosphere ship" that will revolutionize commercial aviation by flying faster and higher than any current type.

After Farber and Norvell get married, he finds that teaching is too restrictive and yearns to get back to his secret project. When he learns that the US Army Air Corps is going to test his aircraft, he attempts to get permission to make the first flight, but is refused due to his failing eyesight. Coming back after hours, Farber takes off and puts his secret aircraft through a high altitude test although Graves warns him by radio that the aircraft is too dangerous to fly without further development. At height, windows blow in and Farber barely recovers from going unconscious and pulling out of a high-speed dive, to make a crash landing back at his base.

Angrily giving up his pilot's license, he decides to leave his wife and join the newly formed Chinese mercenary air force fighting against Japan.#tag:ref|The formation of the Flying Tigers is only hinted at |group=Note Air Corps officers intercept him in San Francisco and call him back to active duty in the military to keep the secret of the "stratosphere ship" in US hands. Graves rearranges Mary's flight schedule, sending her to San Antonio, where she is met by newly promoted Capt. Farber, now a flight instructor at Randolph Field. The reunited couple are finally at peace, knowing that everything will turn out all right.

####Follow the Boys####
Tony West performs in vaudeville in a group with his father Nick and sister Kitty, The decline of vaudeville forces the group to split up and Tony goes to Hollywood to try to make it in movies. He works at Universal Pictures, where he becomes screen partners with, and then the husband of, star Gloria Vance.

When World War II breaks out, Tony tries to enlist but is refused because of his knee. Tony finds himself organising the Hollywood Victory Committee (H.V.C.), a consortium of motion picture, theatrical and radio personalities dedicated to help the war effort.

He puts on a show that includes performances from Donald O'Connor and Jeannette MacDonald.

Tony and Gloria have a big fight and she doesn't tell him that she is pregnant. Tony organizes another show, where Welles performs magic tricks including sawing Dietrich in half.

Tony goes overseas and is killed during an attack by a Japanese submarine.  Gloria takes Tony's place entertaining the troops.

####Fools Rush In####
Alex Whitman, a New York City architect, is sent to Las Vegas to supervise the construction of a nightclub that his firm has been hired to build. He is a strait-laced WASP-ish type and meets Isabel Fuentes, a free-spirited Mexican-American photographer. Alex and Isabel are immediately attracted and spend the night together. In the morning, Isabel quietly slips away while Alex is still asleep.

Three months later, Isabel finds Alex at work to tell him she is pregnant with his child. She has decided to keep and raise the child alone, although it will disappoint her family. Isabel asks Alex to a family dinner so they can meet the baby's father at least once. He agrees, and despite some cultural differences, finds himself more attracted to Isabel. Though Isabel is prepared to say goodbye, Alex suggests they pursue a relationship.

Alex proposes and they quickly marry at a Las Vegas wedding chapel (with an Elvis impersonator serving as a witness). However they gradually, both wonder if they belong together, especially as Alex struggles to balance his New York career with Isabel's desire to stay in Nevada, near her family.

In early June, when Alex is at his company's NYC office his boss tells him to return on July 1 for a new project and promotion. He secretly agrees to it, although he'd promised Isabel they wouldn't go until after the baby is born in October.

The newlyweds fight when Isabel finds out why he's been so busy and distant. Isabel suffers from a medical complication. While in the hospital, she lets Alex believe she lost the baby and says they're not meant to be together.

Disappointed, Alex returns to New York while Isabel, who is still pregnant, goes to Mexico to stay with her great-grandmother. After being served with divorce papers, he sees several 'signs' such as a priest telling him to watch carefully for guidance, he almost trips over a chihuahua, sees a landscape photo of the Grand Canyon and finally a young hispanic girl named Isabel can't keep her eyes off him. Alex realizes he loves Isabel and wants her more than his career.

Alex travels to rural Mexico to find Isabel, unaware she is still pregnant. Her great-grandmother, who only speaks Spanish, reveals that Isabel loves Alex and is driving back to Las Vegas to have her baby (which he only understands as she has returned to Las Vegas). He intercepts her at the Hoover Dam and says he loves her, then realizes she is still pregnant.

Isabel suddenly goes into labor and gives birth to a daughter which coincides with their divorce becoming finalized. Soon after they remarry with both families present, atop a cliff overlooking the Grand Canyon.

####For Love of Ivy####
Ivy Moore, a 27-year-old African-American woman, has worked as a maid for the department store owning Austin family of Long Island, New York, for nine years, since being brought by them from Florida, where she was raised by her grandmother. Despite protestations that they treat her as a part of the family, she announces her decision to leave her job and go to secretarial school and improve her situation.

The Austins are desperate to keep her, and the teenagers, Gena and Tim, hatch a scheme to do so. Tim Austin sets up Ivy with Jack Parks, a trucking company executive, to wine and dine Ivy. Tim hopes that the introduction of excitement in her life will dissuade her from leaving the family.

Tim persuades a reluctant Parks to date Ivy, and applies pressure by threatening to reveal his illegal gambling casino, which operates at night in the back of a large, long-distance truck.

Their initial meetings are awkward for the cosmopolitan Parks and the less sophisticated Moore, as they go to a Japanese restaurant and a bohemian nightclub in Manhattan. Eventually, however, romance blossoms, but when Moore learns that Parks was coerced into initially dating her, she breaks up with him.

Parks overcomes his attachment to swinging bachelorhood and asks Moore to leave with him for New York City. She accepts.
As they do so, they witness the illegal casino being pulled over and everyone inside arrested after the Austins had called the police.

####For the Boys####
In the early 1990s, retired entertainer Dixie Leonard has a commitment to attend a Hollywood ceremony being televised live to honor her and her longtime show-biz partner Eddie Sparks. When a young man from the TV show comes to pick her up, Dixie balks and explains what brought Eddie and her together, as well as what drove them apart. The majority of the film is an extended flashback.

Dixie's story begins during World War II when she receives an offer to entertain the troops overseas as part of Eddie's act. Dixie is an instant hit with the boys in uniform, but Eddie wants her gone, ostensibly because he finds her kind of humor too coarse, but in actuality because she stole the show by topping his jokes. Dixie doesn't care for him much, either, but fellow entertainers and her joke-writer uncle Art persuade her to stay.

Eddie wins her over, particularly by reuniting Dixie with her soldier husband on stage. However, later in the war, Dixie's husband dies in battle.

Despite her distaste for Eddie, Dixie continues working with him back in the States...mostly to support herself and her son Danny. Eddie is married with daughters, yet he becomes a proud surrogate father to Danny.

As the Korean War breaks out, Eddie announces on stage that he and Dixie will be performing for the U.S. troops there, without having told Dixie of his plans first. In revenge, Dixie announces that Eddie made a $100,000 donation ($Inflation|US|100000|1951|r=-3|fmt=c today) to the Red Cross. Reluctantly, she travels to Korea with him. On their way to the camp, they encounter a unit of soldiers that has been ambushed. Dixie cares for a wounded soldier but cannot save him: he is pronounced dead on arrival at the field hospital. Dixie and Eddie appear to spend the night together. At the Christmas dinner, a fight ensues after Art announces to everybody that Eddie has fired him for being a communist sympathizer.

In the meantime, Danny has grown up to be a soldier like his father and is deployed to Vietnam. At Art's suggestion, Dixie eventually agrees to perform there for Christmas with Eddie. On their way to the camp, the performers are warned of the camp possibly being attacked, because of which they are to be flown out immediately after their performance. Before going on stage, Dixie and Eddie meet Danny, who reveals to them the barbarity that is spreading among his comrades. The show begins with the performance of a dancer, who starts getting harassed by the soldiers, and only Eddie's intervention prevents the situation from getting out of control. Dixie comes on stage and makes some cynical remarks about the soldiers, then sings “In My Life”. While she is still on stage, the camp is attacked in a mortar barrage. Dixie and Eddie find shelter, but Danny is killed right in front of them; both mourn deeply for him.

Dixie has not forgiven Eddie for his part in all this, and they have another heated argument in the dressing room. Eddie goes out on stage alone. But, at the last minute, because he speaks of their joint loss in Vietnam, Dixie joins him on stage for one last song and dance, before appearing to accept their mutual love for one another.

####Forces of Nature####
Ben Holmes is a "blurb" writer responsible for writing the short introductions on the sleeves of hardcover books. On his way from his home in New York City to Savannah, Georgia for his wedding to Bridget, he is already anxious about flying. His nerves are worsened when he's seated next to Sarah, a free-spirited drifter who begins to talk to Ben immediately. On takeoff, a bird flies into one of the engines, causing a flameout. Now terrified to get on another plane, along with almost everyone else who was on board, Ben agrees to rent a car with Sarah, who also needs to get to Savannah within a few days, and another passenger, Vic.

Numerous obstacles begin to arise to prevent Ben from getting to his wedding. First, Vic begins smoking marijuana on the road, which leads to the three being arrested. Ben and Sarah are able to get released and buy train tickets to Georgia. Ben and Sarah share a moment on top of the train car, screaming into the picturesque landscape while the train is stopped, only to discover once they climb down that they've entered the wrong car and are now on their way to Chicago.

They disembark from the moving train and escape from a rain storm in a KMart, where they buy dry clothes and bond while discussing Ben's mixed feelings about getting married. Sarah reveals that she's been married twice and is traveling to Savannah to collect a large sum of money from the sale of a bagel shop that she opened with her estranged husband, Carl.

The next day, Sarah discovers Carl attempting to thwart the sale of the bagel shop, so she asks Ben to pretend to be her husband when they get to Savannah, explaining that she has a 10 year-old son from her first marriage that she hasn't seen in two years and wants to give him the money from the sale as a way to mend fences between them. He agrees, and she convinces him to pretend he's a surgeon and they're a married couple to charm their way onto a bus of retirees headed to Florida led by Joe.

At the first overnight stop, Ben finds himself increasingly attracted to Sarah. He encounters his best man, Alan and Bridget's maid of honor, Debbie in the hotel lobby. Ben leaves to find Sarah, but Debbie confronts him after one of the retirees refers to Sarah as his wife. Furious, Debbie returns to Savannah with Alan to reveal all to Bridget.

In their hotel room, Ben angrily blames Sarah for disrupting his life. She accuses him of being afraid to live his life honestly. They begin to kiss, but Ben stops himself and they leave to collect the money his parents have wired him to get home, only to discover the bank is burning down. Ben and Sarah both begin laughing hysterically, wondering what else could go wrong, and begin kissing again. Back at the hotel, they're confronted by the retirees, who have discovered their lie, so they flee.

Sarah recalls seeing a car for sale in town for a low price, and suggests she striptease in a local bar to raise the money to buy it. The bartender, however, asks Ben to dance instead, and they realize they've walked into a gay bar. Ben is nervous at first, but soon gets into the dance and earns them enough money to buy the car.

On the road to Savannah, Ben tells Sarah he's prepared to call the wedding off, but Sarah tells him he's known her only for a few days and it would be a crazy thing to do. A hurricane approaches Savannah, and the harsh weather forces Ben and Sarah to abandon the car and run the rest of the way to the wedding. Ben finds Bridget and realizes he does love her and wants to spend his life with her. Sarah witnesses their reunion and leaves quietly.

Ben and Bridget go on their honeymoon and get married in Hawaii. Sarah visits her son and reconciles with him. Ben states in voiceover that he hopes that wherever Sarah is that she's found happiness.

####Forgetting Sarah Marshall####
Composer Peter Bretter is in a five-year relationship with actress Sarah Marshall, who stars in a "CSI"-like television show titled "Crime Scene: Scene of the Crime". One day, as Peter stands stark naked in their apartment, Sarah abruptly announces that she is breaking up with him. Devastated and unable to banish his grief through one-night stands, Peter, against the advice of his ex-stepbrother and best friend Brian, takes a trip to Hawaii and stays at Turtle Bay resort. However, the vacation is ruined when he learns that Sarah and her new British rock star boyfriend Aldous Snow are also guests of the resort. Taking pity on him, hotel concierge Rachel Jansen offers him an incredibly expensive suite for free in exchange for cleaning up the room himself.

Peter begins spending time with Rachel and starts to develop feelings for her. Meanwhile, the relationship between Sarah and Aldous begins to falter. Much of the discord is triggered by the news that Sarah's TV show has been cancelled and that Aldous is about to embark on a world tour with his rock group, Infant Sorrow, for 18 months. Peter is later forced to move to the room next to Sarah's after Dakota Fanning and her team book the suite. During a day of surf and sand, Aldous and Peter run into each other and begin talking. Inadvertently, Aldous informs Peter that he and Sarah began having sex a full year before she broke up with Peter. When Peter confronts Sarah, she tells him she began feeling disconnected emotionally from him, and she couldn't do anything to make their relationship work. Further exacerbating the situation is Sarah's obvious jealousy of the budding relationship between Peter and Rachel, while Peter (through observing Sarah's relationship with Aldous) begins to realize that his relationship with her wasn't as great as he remembered.

Sarah, Aldous, Peter, and Rachel share an awkward dinner. After dinner, Peter takes Rachel back to his hotel room, and they begin to have sex. Sarah hears them through the wall and initiates sex with Aldous, moaning loudly for the benefit of the couple next door, and Rachel and Peter turn the situation into a competition and become even louder. When Aldous realizes Sarah is clearly putting on a performance to provoke a reaction from Peter, he pushes her off and tells her the trip was a mistake as she's clearly not over Peter. They bicker furiously, prompting Aldous to announce that the relationship is over and that he has been cheating on her. The next day, Peter encounters Aldous and learns that he and Sarah have broken up and that he is returning to England alone. He and Peter part amicably. Peter goes to Sarah's room to console her, where she admits she is still in love with him and tries to rekindle their romance. The two start to engage in sexual activity, but Peter is unable to achieve an erection due to his ambivalent feelings towards Sarah, despite her performing oral sex on him. He realizes that he has become much happier with Rachel and berates Sarah for treating him badly in the first place. Peter immediately goes to Rachel to confess what happened, but she is hurt and demands that he leave and never contact her again. Before leaving, Peter takes down a picture of Rachel flashing her breasts that is on the wall of the men's room at a local bar. He  returns it to her, fulfilling her wish,  despite enduring a beat-down from the bar's owner.

He flies back to Los Angeles and, after a period of sadness and self-loathing, begins working on his Dracula puppet comedy-rock opera, "A Taste for Love". He sends an invitation to Rachel for the opening night performance. Although hesitant at first, Rachel eventually decides to attend. After the successful performance, Rachel congratulates Peter and tells him she's looking into attending college in the area. She leaves so Peter can bask in the success of his show, but quickly returns to Peter's dressing room to tell him she misses him, where she finds him stark naked, just as he was when Sarah dumped him. The film ends with a mid-credits promo of  Sarah starring in a new television show titled "Animal Instincts" where she plays a character who can read animals' minds, meaning that she couldn't fulfill her dream of being a movie star and is still working on critically panned projects.

####Forsaking All Others####
Ever since Jeff Williams (Clark Gable) was a child, he has been in love with Mary Clay (Joan Crawford). Returning from Madrid, Spain, he wants to propose to her firsthand. However, he comes to a halt, as he finds out that she is being married to Dillon 'Dill' Todd (Robert Montgomery) the very next day. The three had been friends since childhood, but no one besides the butler realized Jeff's feelings. So instead, he wishes all the best for the couple.

However, the next day, Dill doesn't show up to the altar, as it turns out that the night before the wedding, he ran off and married Connie Barnes (Frances Drake), a woman with whom he had had an affair in Europe some months before. Mary quickly gets out of her wedding dress and projects strength instead of fainting.

Although what Dill did to Mary was terrible, she still has a soft spot for him. Jeff and Mary are invited to a party at Dill and Connie's house, and the two decide to attend in order to cause some havoc and shock the newlywed couple. While the tension between Mary and Connie is palpable, Dill is shocked to see Mary.  Dill and Mary share a romantic moment outside, and Connie awkwardly walks in on them.  Jeff tries to smooth the situation over, but Connie remains furious.

Later, Dill calls Mary and Jeff finds out they intend to see each other.  Mary knows she should not go, but the two go up to Aunt Paula's (Billie Burke) country house in Phoenicia, New York. The two share a romantic day, and they profess their love for each other.  Dill calls his butler to tell him to pick them up tomorrow morning, but Connie overhears and sets off for Phoenicia.  Aunt Paula also realizes the two are at her house, and goes there with Jeff in order to prevent the scandal from getting worse.  In fact, the night previously, Dill accidentally burned himself, and the two did not sleep together.

As Connie arrives, Jeff and Mary pretend to be a couple, but Connie does not buy it.  She wants to punish Dill for his perceived unfaithfulness, while Aunt Paula wants to avoid scandal.  Connie accepts a lucrative settlement and leaves for Europe, thus leaving Dill free to marry Mary.  Right before the ceremony, Jeff proclaims his love for Mary and tells her that he is leaving on a boat back to Spain.  When the butler, Shep (Charles Butterworth), tells her the cornflowers sent to her last wedding were from Jeff and not Dill, Mary realizes she loves Jeff instead.  She breaks off her marriage with Dill and joins Jeff on the boat—when Dill arrives at the wharf, the ship has already sailed.

####Frankie and Johnny####
An emotionally scarred waitress named Frankie attends her godson's baptism in Altoona, Pennsylvania. Meanwhile, a middle-aged man named Johnny is released from prison. Frankie returns home to New York City to her job waitressing at the Apollo Cafe. The owner, Nick, sends her co-worker Helen home early after she complains of dizziness. Johnny arrives looking for work and Nick hires him as a short-order cook despite his criminal record. After work, Frankie returns home to her apartment to find a stranger, Bobby, installing shelves, but he is revealed to be the boyfriend of her friend and neighbor, Tim. That night, Johnny solicits a prostitute, but merely asks her to lie clothed in bed with him.

The next day, Nick announces to his staff that Helen has been hospitalized. Frankie and her co-worker Cora visit an unconscious Helen and share their fears of dying alone like her. The next day, after helping a man who had an epileptic seizure, Johnny asks Frankie out on a date, but she refuses. Helen dies and Frankie, Cora, and fellow waitress Nedda are surprised to see Johnny at her funeral. Back at work, Johnny asks Frankie out again. After she refuses again, he has a one-night stand with Cora, which she shares the details of with Frankie and Nedda.

Weeks pass, and Johnny asks Frankie to be his date at a co-worker's going-away party, but she again refuses. He shows up at her apartment anyway, where Bobby and Tim help Frankie decide what to wear. At the party, Johnny attempts to convince Frankie that they are a good match. After the party, he buys her a flower and persuades her to take him back to her apartment, where they spend an intimate night together.

Now convinced that they are meant to be together, Johnny shows up at her bowling night and professes his love to her. Frankie argues that he cannot love her after such a short period of time, and reveals that she cannot have children after Johnny mentions starting a family. Afterwards, Frankie avoids Johnny, not answering his phone calls and switching her shifts. However, Johnny switches his shifts too and they talk to each other. Johnny confesses that he is divorced and has two children whom he has not seen since he got out of prison for check fraud. Frankie encourages him to see them, and she confesses that her last boyfriend cheated on her with her best friend.

After work, Johnny walks Frankie to her apartment, where they discuss their lives and listen to "Clair de lune". However, the intimacy makes Frankie uncomfortable and they argue. She asks him to leave, but before he does, he calls the radio station and asks them to play an encore of "Clair de lune". Frankie confesses that a previous boyfriend had physically abused her, at one point causing her to have a miscarriage which made her unable to have children. Frankie invites Johnny to stay and they watch the sunrise together.

####French Postcards####
A group of American exchange students spend a year studying in Paris at the fictional Institute of French Studies, run by Madame Catherine Tessier and her husband Monsieur Tessier. Student Laura spends much of her time alone, visiting museums and art galleries and regularly sending postcards to her boyfriend back home who declined the opportunity to join her. Alex's interests are not so much in studying but more in love and life in Paris, and he becomes involved in a tryst with his teacher and the Institute's co-director Madame Tessier. Joel struggles with indecisiveness, which complicates matters when he falls in love with Toni, a local bookstore employee.

####Funny Girl####
Set in and around New York City just prior to and following World War I, the story opens with "Ziegfeld Follies" star Fanny Brice awaiting her husband Nicky Arnstein to arrive at the theater, and then moves into an extended flashback focusing on their meeting, marriage, and Fanny's rise to stardom.

Fanny is a stage-struck teenager who lands her first job in vaudeville. Her mother and her friend, Mrs. Strakosh, try to dissuade Fanny from show business, believing Fanny is not a stage beauty. Fanny's boss complains about Fanny's unsynchronized dancing skills and appearance, wanting to sack her. She perseveres and is put in a roller-skating act after falsely claiming she can skate. The performance goes wrong, but the audience thinks that Fanny is hilarious and cheer her singing. After the show, the suave Nicky Arnstein comes backstage to meet Fanny. She finds Nicky handsome and charming, but declines his invitation for dinner.

Fanny's dream is realized when, six months later, she is hired for the "Ziegfeld Follies". In her debut performance, Fanny is cast as the beautiful bride in a romantic musical number. Uncomfortable about her looks, she adds a comic twist by appearing pregnant in the wedding gown. An angry Ziegfeld wants to fire Fanny but the audience loves the hilarious act. He tells her to play it that way every performance. Nicky Arnstein appears and congratulates Fanny on her success, then accompanies her to the Brice family celebration.

Within a year, Fanny is a Broadway star. While on tour, she runs into Nicky in Baltimore. During a romantic dinner, they declare their mutual romantic feelings. The reunion is cut short after Nicky's racehorse loses a big race, leaving him broke. To make money, Nicky heads for Europe to gamble during the voyage. Fanny impulsively quits the tour and rushes back to New York to join him. A tugboat takes her to Nicky's ship, which just left port. Nicky is delighted to see Fanny. During the trip, Nicky wins a fortune playing poker. The two eventually marry and move into a mansion and soon have a daughter. Fanny later returns to the "Ziegfeld Follies".

When Nicky's various business ventures fail, he resorts to gambling to recoup his losses. This causes him to miss Fanny's new premiere, further straining their marriage. Fanny's mother tells an unknowing Fanny about Nicky's dire financial situation and advises her to, "love him less and help him more". Nicky is offered a lucrative business venture, but he quickly realizes Fanny is secretly financing the deal and rejects it. He instead becomes involved in a bonds scam. Nicky is caught and sentenced to eighteen months in prison for embezzlement.

The film shifts back to the present timeline as Fanny nervously awaits Nicky's return from prison. Nicky arrives, and, after a bittersweet reunion, the two agree to separate, leaving Fanny heartbroken.

####Gayby####
Jenn, a yoga instructor, and Matt, a comic book store worker, are best friends from college who are now single and in their 30s. In accordance with a pact they made in their youth, the two decide to have a baby ("gayby") together, though Jenn is straight and Matt is gay. Jenn's grandmother created a trust fund for her that she will be able to access if she has a child, so Jenn is confident that she and Matt will have the finances to care for it. Jenn states that she wants to have a baby through natural conception, so the two begin awkwardly having sex.

Meanwhile, Jenn is concerned with the stunted life she is living, treated as an underling at her yoga studio. Matt is recovering from a devastating breakup with his partner of six years, Tom, who is a rising comic book publisher. Matt finds himself struggling with getting back into the dating game and constantly avoiding awkward run-ins with Tom.

The two friends resolve to reinvigorate their dating lives and achieve their long-term goals—Jenn pushes the idea of innovative "warm" yoga classes at her studio, while Matt works on his own comic book, "Gayby"—about the adventures of a heroic gay baby—to pitch to a distributor. Both receive advice from friends about their goals and the pregnancy attempts—Jenn from her gay co-worker Jamie and her aggressive sister Kelly, who is in the process of adopting a child, and Matt from his dry, witty friend Nelson, who helps with their fertility treatments, having been a surrogate father himself.

After dating around, Jenn has a night of passionate sex with her boss's brother, Louis. Meanwhile, Matt meets a divorced, newly out gay father, Scott, who buys comic books at his store. The two begin a relationship, but Matt is frustrated at how slowly Scott wishes to proceed. Jenn and Matt are later thrilled when they learn Jenn is finally pregnant.

Jenn is furious to learn that Louis has a girlfriend and that he cheated on her with Jenn. In trying to defend himself, Louis reveals that he was single, also mentioning that their condoms broke during sex and that he thought Jenn knew and was okay with it. Jenn is devastated by the possibility that the child may not be Matt's after all. Jenn's boss, upon learning that her brother cheated on his girlfriend again with Jenn, angrily asks Jenn to take a leave of absence from the yoga studio.

While attending Matt's birthday party, Jenn hesitantly reveals that the child might be Louis's, which devastates Matt. He asks Jenn to return his apartment key and refuses to speak to her. Falling into a depression, Jenn is visited by Kelly, who tells her that her adoption failed. She offers to raise Jenn's baby instead, arguing that Jenn is not fit—either in lifestyle or career—to raise a child on her own, and that she will block the trust fund if necessary. Jenn argues that she will be able to raise the child and give it a great life, even if Matt never forgives her and she is forced to raise it alone. Satisfied that Jenn has what it takes, Kelly reveals that the adoption went through and that her offer was a ruse to bolster her sister's conviction.

Jenn returns to work and offers to buy into the yoga studio with some of her trust fund money, securing her future and furthering her career there. Enticed by the opportunity to split the responsibility of studio ownership with someone and seeing that Jenn's "warm" yoga has become an immense hit, her boss accepts, and they resume their friendship.

Nelson reads Matt's comic and convinces him that it is worth submitting to a publisher. Matt finds closure with Tom by finally speaking with him and asking him to show Gayby to one of his superiors. Tom happily agrees, stating that he is pleased to see Matt doing better. Though he is excited about this development, Matt is still depressed that the child may not be his. Nelson tells him that even if the child isn't his biologically, it is still his child because he and Jenn wanted to have it together, and that giving it a loving family is what's most important.

Jenn arrives at the comic book store to ask Matt's forgiveness and offers to raise the child with him one last time. Though silent at first, Matt relents and the two make up, preparing for the baby's arrival.

One year later, Matt's Gayby comic book is a success and he has furthered his relationship with Scott, who enthusiastically helps care for the baby. Jenn has begun a relationship with one of Matt's coworkers and stops by Matt and Scott's place to take care of the baby so they can spend a night by themselves. Unbeknownst to Matt, Scott is preparing to propose to him that evening. After Matt and Scott leave, Jenn cuddles with the baby and says, "You sure do look like your father," leaving the true identity of the baby's biological father unknown.

####Getting Played####
The film centers around three very attractive women who, after having many guy troubles themselves, decide to play a prank on a random man.  Their goal is to seduce the man while catching the whole sequence on tape and ultimately humiliating him with the footage.  Their plan runs into some snags, as the man they choose to prank knows what they are trying to do to him.

A man named Mark Sellers (Bill Bellamy) then has sex with Andrea Collins (Vivica A. Fox) and Lauren (Carmen Electra) while they video tape the intercourse, only for him to change both tapes. He then goes on a date with Emily (Stacey Dash) only to fall in love with her after finding that they both have a lot in common and they look good together. In the end, they admit everything to each other, and after five minutes of begging, disturbing a couple eating dinner who they think that they are on a hidden camera show, decide to forgive each other and start out clean and honest.

####Gideon####
Gideon Oliver Dobbs is a man with a mental disability. He moves into a nursing home known as Lakeview, with many elderly inhabitants. They are all grumpy old men and women. Gideon is much younger than the other residents, which causes confusion when he first introduces himself. His view of life makes the seniors look at their lives in a different way.

####The Girl from Manhattan####
New York actress and fashion model Carol arrives to stay with her uncle Homer Purdy in a boarding house in the mid-west America town of Pittsfield.

Meanwhile, ex-football player, the handsome Tom Walker, appears in the same state to chat with the bishop regarding his becoming a minister in the town. It is concluded that the church needs new heroes and his background as a  football star should be a benefit not a hindrance. The bishop has arranged for him to stay at Purdy's boarding house. On arrival he meets Carol and they recognise each other. Tom is cryptic about his plans.

Tom meets the church council who present a local benefactor Mr Birch who is going to buy the 150-year-old church and build a new church closer to the town centre: the chosen site is Purdy's boarding House.

Uncle Homer is revealed to be giving most of his rooms free until the various residents get rich, and is involved in many of their madcap schemes. He makes little money and the old house is crumbling. Carol and Homer rearrange one of the rooms to serve as Tom's study until the new church is built. They do not know the chosen site is their house.

The bishop calls in Tom to discuss his reputation if being seen with a fashion model.

Oscar, one of the more eccentric guests, is allowed to build a miniature railway in Purdy's basement. Mr Birch appears at the boarding house to assess its demolition. Everyone knows the plan except Carol. Uncle Homer has squandered the $3,000 Carol sent him on investing in his guests crazy ventures. The train engine blows up and Homer is injured. Tom and carol join forces to save the boarding house. Several guests also start to raise money.

Ultimately Rev Tom sends his own $3,000 to pay off Homer's debts and Mr Birch's "generous" offer for the old church is proven to be a scam. Although they will need to keep using the old church, the bishop approves.

####The Girl from Missouri####
Eadie (Jean Harlow) lives in Kansas City, working as a waitress-slash-dance partner at a beer joint owned by her abusive stepfather. She runs away to New York City with her man-hungry friend Kitty (Patsy Kelly). On the train, she tells Kitty that she has ideals and plans to marry a somebody so she can accomplish something worthwhile.  A millionaire seems just right to her. Any millionaire.

She lands a job as one of the chorus girls entertaining guests at a stag party at the mansion of wealthy Frank Cousins (Lewis Stone). There, she manages to see Cousins alone; knowing he is about to commit suicide over unplayable debts, he offers her expensive gifts, including a pair of expensive star ruby cufflinks, but she refuses to accept them until they become engaged. She is surprised when he readily agrees. Unbeknownst to her, guest T.R. Paige (Lionel Barrymore) had just before refused to save Cousins from financial ruin. After Eadie leaves Cousins he shoots himself. Seeking to cover her dubious tracks she becomes rather intimately acquainted with T.R. when she gets him to retrieve the cufflinks from her stocking before the investigating policeman can ask where and how she got them (intimating she’d be accused either of Cousins’ murder or robbing the corpse).

“Following the money”, Eadie visits her new friend at his workplace to reconnect with him. When she says she has been fired and that she is determined to marry a rich man, an alarmed T.R. gives her some money and leaves for Palm Beach, Florida. Eadie and Kitty follow and visit T.R.'s Florida office. The comely, yet overtly trashy, Eadie is spotted in the waiting room by T.R.'s son Tom (Franchot Tone). Not knowing who he is, Eadie tries to brush him off, but he is very persistent. Eventually, she learns his identity, but remains cool to him, since it becomes clear that he is not interested in marriage. Tom finally manages to get her alone in his bedroom in the Paige mansion, but she defends her virtue and, to both their  surprise, he lets her go.

Tom tells his father that he wants to marry Eadie, despite her low class past. T.R. gives his blessing, but after Tom leaves, calls the district attorney. Tom tells Eadie they are going to get married. After he leaves however, a man sneaks into her apartment. Some photographers catch her in the stranger's arms and the district attorney accuses her of stealing Cousins' jewelry and jails her. When Tom and his father come to see her, she tells Tom that T.R. must have framed her, but Tom's father is much more persuasive and Tom breaks up with Eadie.

Tom's rival, the married Charlie Turner (Hale Hamilton), bails Eadie out. For revenge, she sneaks into T.R.'s stateroom on the liner he and Tom are taking to London. She emerges unexpectedly, clad only in lingerie, and embraces a surprised T.R just as photographers take his picture.

Having been disillusioned, Eadie gets drunk and turns to Charlie Turner. However, Kitty keeps them from being alone together as long as she can. Tom arrives just in time, having changed his mind, and puts Eadie in the shower to sober up. T.R. follows. To save his reputation, he has told the press she was innocent of the theft and that she was married to Tom. He is also impressed by her fighting spirit. A quick wedding is arranged on the spot.

####The Girl from Petrovka####
Joe (Hal Holbrook) is a cynical American journalist assigned to work in the Soviet Union, where he meets Oktyabrina (Goldie Hawn), a spirited and erratic Russian ballet dancer who lives illegally without proper documents. Their ensuing romance opens new possibilities for both; but also draws the attention of the Soviet authorities.

####The Girl He Left Behind####
Andy Schaeffer is a spoiled mama's boy who usually gets his way. He breezes through college, while girlfriend Susan Daniels works hard at a job to pay for her education. She isn't sure where their relationship is going. Andy's grades begin to worsen, and he's being drafted by the army. Andy reports for basic training at Fort Ord, making it clear to everybody there that he'd rather be anyplace else.

####Go Fish####
Max is a young lesbian college student in Chicago who has gone ten months without having sex. She and her roommate and college professor Kia are in a coffee shop when they run into Ely, a hippieish woman with long braided hair, whom Max initially dismisses. Max and Ely do end up going to a film together. After the film they return to Ely's place and, after some flirtatious conversation, they kiss. Suddenly a call comes in from Ely's (unseen on-screen) partner Kate, with whom Ely has been in a long-distance relationship for more than two years, which puts a bit of a damper on things.

Ely decides to cut off all her hair, ending up with a very short butch style. She runs into Max in a bookstore and Max almost does not recognize her.

Kia's girlfriend Evy returns home. Her ex-boyfriend Junior is there. Evy's mother confronts her, saying that Junior told her that he had spotted Evy at a gay bar. Evy's mother kicks her out and Evy flees to Kia's place and Max invites her to live with them.

Ely and her roommate Daria throw a dinner party and, after a spirited game of I Never, Max and Ely reconnect. They make plans to go out again and then begin kissing. They have several phone conversations, in the course of which Ely reveals that she's "sort of broken up" with Kate. They get together for a second date but they never make it out of the apartment. Max ends up trimming Ely's fingernails. This turns into foreplay and they have sex. Intercut with the closing credits are shots and short scenes of Max and Ely's burgeoning relationship.

####Good Deeds####
Wesley Deeds (Tyler Perry) is the CEO of the family-owned Deeds Corporation. Although he is incredibly wealthy, he has little in the sense of freedom and has come to adapt to a certain predictable lifestyle noted by his fiancée Natalie (Gabrielle Union). One day before work, Wesley picks up his younger brother Walter (Brian J. White), who lost his driver's license after a string of DUIs. They have lunch with their mother, the respectable Wilimena Deeds (Phylicia Rashad), who later meets with Natalie, Natalie's mother, and Natalie's best friend Heidi (Rebecca Romijn) at the bridal shop. The two mothers urge Natalie to think about her future with Wesley, specifically children.

On the impoverished side of town, Lindsey Wakefield (Thandiwe Newton), a single mother and janitor for the Deeds Corporation, finds out from her building superintendent Milton (Tom Thon) she will be evicted by her landlady if she doesn't pay her bills soon. Lindsey rushes to pick up her check from work and ends up parking in Wesley's reserved spot, leaving her six-year-old daughter Ariel (Jordenn Thompson) in the car. Wesley and Walter find Ariel who is too shy and scared to speak to them. Lindsay finds out from her boss that the IRS is holding most of her pay for the next six months, forcing her to take on the night shift to make up for the lost income. She returns to find her car towed and argues with Wesley and Walter. Wesley takes pity on Ariel and decides to let them have their car back. Lindsey takes Ariel to school while Wesley has a meeting with his co-worker and best friend, John (Eddie Cibrian), over acquiring a company Wesley's father has been competing against for years.

After work, Lindsey discovers she has been evicted. Taking her belongings, she picks up Ariel from school and works the night shift, where Ariel is forced to sleep in the broom closet as Lindsay works. While working late, Wesley catches Lindsey making a call to the IRS with a company phone which is grounds for termination. She is at first hostile to him, not realizing he is the CEO of the company, but begins to soften up and he again decides to let her off the hook. Wesley sees them parked outside the building after her shift is over, and decides to watch over them until Lindsey's "boyfriend" comes for them. Wesley then introduces himself to Ariel and reveals to Lindsay that he is in fact the CEO of the company. He takes Lindsey and Ariel out for pizza where the trio make a bond.

Meanwhile that night, Natalie and Heidi, who is also John’s wife, attend a fashion show in support of their friend Mark Freeze (Jamie Kennedy). When her friends bring her home, she tries to initiate sex with Wesley with the curtain’s open. Wesley is put off by this which angers a drunken Natalie who calls him out on being predictable and never spontaneous.

Wesley struggles to expand the business with Walter sabotaging the purchase of a long time rival company of Deeds Incorporated. John tries to warn him that Walter might be purposely trying to make Wesley fail so he can prove to everyone that he should be the one running the company. Wesley however, refuses to believe this.

Ariel's teacher finds out that Lindsey and Ariel are homeless and threatens to call child services. Wesley finds out as well later that night when working late again and finding Ariel in the broom closet. He brings her to his office and confronts Lindsey when she comes looking for her. He criticizes her for her treatment of her daughter and the responsibility she has put on her shoulders as a six year old. She tells him that he could never understand the choices she has had to make as a mother because he lives an incredibly privileged life.

Wesley at that point forward tries to make their lives a bit easier since Lindsey has to bring Ariel with her to work at night. Lindsey also begins to bring out a more fun spirit in Wesley, and he begins to break from his predictable routines, which Natalie notices. However, since Ariel hasn’t been in school, child welfare was notified and takes Ariel to a foster home. Wesley watches in despair as Ariel is taken from her mother and offers Lindsey a rent-free corporate apartment, which allows her to regain custody of Ariel. When Wesley reveals he has always wanted to ride a motorcycle, Lindsey rents one and the pair ride across the countryside. They stop by a pond, where they kiss. Wesley admits he is engaged, and Lindsey leaves.

Deeds Incorporated takes over the rival company, but Walter ruins the celebration with his outburst. Lindsey arrives at the party to talk to Wesley, and although initially wanting to leave after seeing the wealthy crowd, Walter forces her to stay. Walter suggests to Wilimena that Wesley and Lindsey are having an affair. Wilimena hints to Lindsey that Wesley would not stay with someone poorer for long. Natalie, Wesley, Walter, Wilimena, and Lindsey become trapped in an elevator after Wesley and Walter fight. Natalie and Wilimena notice Lindsey reaching for Wesley's hand, which was injured in the fight.

Wesley visits Lindsey that night, but she rejects him. Wesley and Natalie realize that, although they love each other, their marriage would not be happy because they are only together for their parents. They announce their split at their engagement party. Wesley also reveals he is quitting and traveling to see his old friends. He hires John as the new CEO of Deeds. Although initially angry, Walter accepts this and begins to make a change in his behavior and become more responsible.

Wesley tells Lindsey he is going to Nigeria and invites Lindsey and Ariel along. Lindsey again rejects him as she is afraid of rejection.

After being seen off by Wilimena, Wesley boards his plane. As the plane is taking off, he sees Lindsey and Ariel sitting across the aisle. Wesley and Lindsey kiss while Ariel looks on happily.

####Good Sam####
Sam Clayton is too good for his own good. A sermon by Rev. Daniels persuades him to help others in every way he can, including his wife Lu's good-for-nothing brother, Claude, who's been living with them rent-free for six months, and their neighbors the Butlers, who need a car for a vacation when theirs breaks down.

Sam is a department store manager whose boss, H.C. Borden, wants him to sell more and socialize less. Sam's a shoulder for clerk Shirley Mae to cry on when her romance breaks up. He also gives a $5,000 loan, without his wife's knowledge, to Mr. and Mrs. Adams, who need it to save a gas station they bought.

Lu is fed up with Sam's generosity, particularly when he ends up paying for the Butlers' car repairs, then letting the mechanic come over for home-cooked meals. The last straw for Lu comes when she learns they have a chance to put a down payment on a new house, except Sam has lent their nest egg to the Adamses.

Sam is unhappy, too. He's annoyed with the Butlers, who have crashed his car and can't pay to fix it. He also wants Claude to move out. Shirley Mae's troubles come to his door after she overdoses on pills. Though the Adamses surprise him with a check for $6,000 to repay their loan, Sam uses some of the money to pay for the annual Christmas charity dinner after he is robbed of the money he collected from employees and the bank refuses to give him a loan. He ends up in a bar, drinking copiously. A Salvation Army marching band playing Christmas songs brings him back home. There the bank manager promises that he will receive the loan he asked for, and Borden surprises him with a promotion to vice-president of the store.

####A Good Woman####
In 1930 New York City, femme fatale Mrs. Erlynne finds that she is no longer welcomed by either the high-ranking men she has seduced or the society wives she has betrayed. Selling her jewelry, she buys passage on a liner bound for Amalfi, Italy, where she apparently sets her sights on newlywed Robert Windermere. When his car frequently is seen parked outside her villa, local gossips become convinced the two are having an affair.

Robert's demure wife Meg remains oblivious to the stories about the two circulating throughout the town, but when she discovers her husband's cheque register with numerous stubs indicating payments to Erlynne, she suspects the worst. What she doesn't know is that Erlynne actually is her mother, who has been extorting payments from Robert in return for keeping her secret. Meg is consoled with the advice, "Plain women resort to crying; pretty women go shopping."

In retaliation for what she believes is her husband's transgression, Meg wears a revealing gown to her twenty-first birthday celebration, attended by Erlynnesndwearing the same dresssndin the company of Lord Augustus ("Tuppy"), a wealthy, twice-divorced man who has proposed marriage to Erlynne. Complications ensue when Lord Darlington professes his love for Meg and implores her to leave her supposedly wayward husbandsndan invitation she accepts.

Erlynne, having found Meg's farewell note to Robert, intercepts her on Darlington's yacht, where the two are trapped when Tuppy, Darlington, Robert and friends arrive for a night of drinking. Robert is startled to see the fan he gave Meg at her birthday party; while Meg makes a hasty escape, Erlynne reveals herself and claims she had taken it from the party in error. Tuppy, thinking his fiancée was planning a romantic rendezvous with Darlington, ends their engagement.

Robert pays Erlynne to leave Amalfi immediately and begs her not to reveal her identity to Meg. Reluctantly, she complies with his wishes, although she returns his final cheque before she departs. On board the plane waiting to take her to a new life, she discovers Tuppy, who presents her with the fan Meg gave him; Meg has concocted an explanation  that ensured he realised his fiancee was not planning a rendez-vous with Darlington. Erlynne accepts his renewed proposal of marriage and the two depart for places unknown.

####A Good Year####
Young Max Skinner, whose parents died in an accident, spends his childhood summer holidays learning to appreciate the finer things at his Uncle Henry's vineyard estate in Provence in southeastern France. Twenty-five years later, Max is a successful but arrogant workaholic trader in London with a cheeky-chappy persona.

Following his uncle's death, Max is the sole beneficiary of the French property. He travels to Provence to prepare a quick sale. Shortly after arriving, by driving while fumbling with a cell phone, he unknowingly causes a local café owner, Fanny Chenal, to crash her bicycle. Subsequently, he discovers that his latest City financial stunt has caused real trouble for the owners of the trading company he works for, and he is ordered to return to London as soon as possible.

To assist in his planned sale of the property, Max hurriedly snaps some photos and in the process falls into an empty swimming pool. He is unable to escape until Fanny, driving by and spotting his rental car, turns on the water supply in retaliation. This delay causes Max to miss his flight and, having failed to report to the directors in person, he is suspended from work and trading activities for one week.

On Henry's estate, Max must deal with a gruff, dedicated winemaker, Francis Duflot, who fears being separated from his precious vines. Duflot pays a vineyard inspector to tell Max that the soil is bad and the vines worthless.

They are surprised by the arrival of young Napa Valley oenophile Christie Roberts, who is backpacking through Europe and claims to be Henry's previously unknown illegitimate daughter. Max realizes, but does not tell her, that French law decrees that even though she is not his uncle's legitimate daughter, she still becomes the rightful heir to the Chateau and vineyards.

As Max did earlier, Christie finds the house wine unpalatable but is impressed by Max's casual offering of the boutique Le Coin Perdu ("the lost corner") vintage, noting some intriguing characteristics. During dinner at the Duflot house, while slightly inebriated, Max exposes his concern that she might lay claim to the estate and brusquely interrogates her.

Max's assistant Gemma warns him of the ambitious antics of other employees. To ensure he is not usurped by Kenny, his second-in-command in London, through whom Max continues to direct trades, he intentionally gives the ambitious young trader bad advice, getting him fired.

Max becomes enamoured with Fanny, who is rumoured to have sworn off men. He successfully woos her into his bed. She leaves him the next morning, expecting him to return to his life in London. A disillusioned Christie also decides to move on. Max finds his uncle's memoirs, which contain proof of her heritage.

Max bids her farewell while handing her an unexplained note inside a book she was reading. While informing Duflot of the pending estate sale, Max learns that the mysterious expensive Le Coin Perdu was made by Henry and Duflot with "illegal vines" from the estate, bypassing wine classification and appellation laws.

The estate is sold and Max returns to London where Sir Nigel, the company chairman, offers him a choice: either a large discharge settlement, or the partnership in the trading firm. Max asks about Nigel's art in the conference room, van Gogh's "Road with Cypress and Star", which Fanny has a copy of in her restaurant. Upon Nigel's dismissive comment that the real one is kept in a vault and the $200,000 copy in the office is for show, Max reconsiders if he wants to still be like Nigel.

Max invalidates the estate's sale with the farewell letter he gave to Christie, which he forged, along with real photos confirming Christie as Henry's daughter with a valid claim to the entire estate. (As a child Max signed checks for his uncle, and is able to replicate his handwriting.)

He puts his London residence up for sale and returns to Provence, entering into a relationship with Fanny, both of them remembering their connection as kids. Christie also returns and she and Francis jointly run the vineyard while trying to reconcile their vastly different philosophies of wine production. This enables Max to focus his entire attention on Fanny.

####The Goodbye Girl####
Dancer and divorcee Paula McFadden (Marsha Mason) and her ten-year-old daughter Lucy (Quinn Cummings) live in a Manhattan apartment with her married boyfriend, Tony DeForrest. Coming home from shopping, Paula finds Tony gone as he had suddenly deserted her to travel to Italy for a film role. Prior to his departure (and unbeknownst to Paula), Tony sublet the apartment to Elliot Garfield (Richard Dreyfuss), a neurotic but sweet aspiring actor from Chicago, who shows up in the middle of the night expecting to move in. Paula, who is demanding, cynical, and neurotic, makes it clear from the start that she does not like Elliot, but reluctantly lets him move in. They argue about boundaries, with Elliot agreeing to allow Paula and Lucy to stay.

Paula is struggling to get back into shape so she can resume her career as a dancer. Meanwhile, Elliot has landed the title role in an off-off-Broadway production of "Richard III", but the director, Mark (Paul Benedict), wants him to play the character as an exaggerated homosexual stereotype—in Mark's words, "the queen who wanted to be king." Reluctantly, Elliot agrees to the non-traditional portrayal, despite knowing that it may mean the end of his acting career. Theater critics from numerous New York City television stations and newspapers attend opening night and savage the show, paying special attention to trashing Elliot's performance. The play quickly closes, much to his relief.

Despite their frequent clashes and Paula's lack of gratitude for Elliot's help, the two fall in love and sleep together. Lucy, despite liking Elliot, grows cautious and sees the affair as a repeat of what happened with Tony. Elliot convinces Paula that he will not be a repeat of their experience with Tony; later he picks up Lucy from school and takes her on a carriage ride, during which the youngster admits she likes Elliot. In response, Elliot explains how much he cares for Lucy and Paula and that he would not do anything to hurt them.

Elliot lands a job at an improvisational theatre, and is soon seen by a well-known film director. He is offered an opportunity for a film role that he cannot turn down, but the job is in Seattle and Elliot will be gone for four weeks. Paula is scared that Elliot is leaving her, never to return, like all the other men in her life. Later, Elliot calls Paula from the phone booth across the street to say his flight was delayed, and at the last minute, he invites Paula to go with him while he is filming, suggesting Lucy stay with Paula's friend Donna until they return. Paula declines but is encouraged by Elliot's invitation. Before hanging up, Elliot asks Paula to restring his prized guitar (which he deliberately left at the apartment), and she realizes this proves he really does love her and will indeed return.

####Goodbye, Columbus####
Neil Klugman is an intelligent, working-class army veteran and a graduate of Rutgers University who works as a library clerk. He falls for Brenda Patimkin, a wealthy Radcliffe student who is home for the summer. They meet by the swimming pool at Old Oaks Country Club in Purchase, New York, a private club that Neil visits as a guest of his cousin Doris. Neil phones Brenda and asks her on a date. She does not remember him, but agrees. He waits as she finishes a tennis game that ends only when it gets too dark to play.

They face obstacles from Brenda's family (particularly her mother), due to differences in class and assimilation into the American mainstream. Brenda's family are "nouveau riche", their money having come from the successful plumbing supply business owned and run by her father. Brenda herself is old enough to remember "being poor". Other conflicts include propriety and issues related to premarital sex and the possibility of pregnancy, and Mrs. Patimkin's envy of her daughter's youth.

After a few dates, Brenda persuades her father to allow Neil to stay with them for two weeks, angering her mother, who feels that she should have been asked instead. While Neil enjoys being able to sneak into Brenda's room at night, he has misgivings over her entitled outlook, echoed by her spoiled and petulant younger sister, and her naïve brother Ron, who misses the hero worship he enjoyed as a star basketball player at Ohio State University. Neil is astonished when Brenda reveals that she does not take birth control pills or use any other precautions to avoid pregnancy, angrily waving off Neil's concerns. He prepares to leave, but she decides to persuade him to stay by agreeing to get a diaphragm.

At the end of his stay, Neil attends Ron's wedding to Harriet, his college sweetheart from Ohio. Brenda returns to Radcliffe in the fall, keeping in touch by telephone. She invites Neil to come up to spend a weekend at a Boston hotel. However, once they're in the hotel room, Brenda tells Neil she just received letters telling her that her mother found her diaphragm and that her parents know about their affair. They argue, with Neil asking why she left it to be found unless she wanted it discovered. Siding with her parents, Brenda ends the affair as abruptly as she allowed it to commence. Neil walks out of the hotel, leaving her crying in the room.

####The Graduate####
After earning his bachelor's degree from an East Coast college, Benjamin Braddock returns to his parents' Pasadena, California home. During his graduation party, he is urged to join a business dealing in plastics—the material of the future. Benjamin cringes as his parents are fulsome in their praise of him during the party and retreats to his bedroom until Mrs. Robinson, the wife of his father's law partner, insists that he drive her home. Once there, she tries to seduce him. He initially resists her advances, but his failed attempts to connect with his parents make him feel isolated. Desperate for any kind of connection, he invites Mrs. Robinson to the Taft Hotel, where he registers under the pseudonym "Mr. Gladstone".

Benjamin spends the summer floating in his parents' pool by day and meeting Mrs. Robinson at the hotel by night. During one of their trysts, Mrs. Robinson reveals that her loveless marriage resulted when she accidentally became pregnant with her daughter, Elaine. When Benjamin jokingly suggests that he date Elaine, Mrs. Robinson angrily forbids it. However, Benjamin's parents, unaware of the affair, are eager for their son to date Elaine and relentlessly pester him to ask her out, as does Mr. Robinson. Benjamin gives in and reluctantly takes Elaine on a date.

When he sees how upset Mrs. Robinson is, Benjamin attempts to sabotage his date by ignoring Elaine, driving recklessly, and taking her to a strip club. She flees the club in tears, but Benjamin, feeling remorseful, runs out after her, apologizes, and kisses her. They eat at a drive-in restaurant, where they bond over their shared uncertainty about their future plans. After they visit the Taft Hotel for a late-night drink and the staff greet Benjamin as "Mr. Gladstone", Elaine deduces that Benjamin is having an affair with a married woman. Benjamin swears that the affair is over and makes plans for another date with Elaine for the following day.

To prevent Benjamin from dating Elaine, Mrs. Robinson threatens to tell Elaine about their affair. To thwart this, Benjamin reveals to Elaine that the married woman is her mother. Elaine is so upset that she refuses to see Benjamin again and returns to school at Berkeley. Benjamin follows her to Berkeley hoping to regain her affections. Elaine initially rejects him and briefly dates medical student Carl Smith, but then learns that her mother lied to her when she claimed that Benjamin raped her, and the pair reconcile. Benjamin pushes for an early marriage, but Elaine is uncertain despite her feelings for him. Later, an angry Mr. Robinson arrives at Berkeley and confronts Benjamin in his boardinghouse room, where he informs him that he and his wife will be divorcing soon, and threatens to have Benjamin jailed if he continues to see Elaine. He then forces Elaine to leave college to marry Carl.

Benjamin drives back to Pasadena and breaks into the Robinson home in search of Elaine. Instead, he finds Mrs. Robinson who calls the police and claims that her house is being burglarized. She then tells Benjamin that he cannot prevent Elaine's marriage to Carl. Before the police can arrest him, Benjamin flees the Robinson home and drives back to Berkeley. There, he visits Carl's fraternity and discovers from one of Carl's fraternity brothers that the wedding will take place in Santa Barbara that day. He rushes towards the area near the church, when his Alfa Romeo runs out of gas, causing him to jog towards the church, and he arrives just as the ceremony ends. Benjamin's desperate appearance on the glass church gallery stirs Elaine into defying her mother and fleeing the sanctuary. Benjamin fights off Mr. Robinson and repels the wedding guests by swinging a large cross, which he uses to barricade the church doors, trapping them inside. Elaine and Benjamin escape aboard a bus and sit among startled passengers. As the bus drives on, their ecstatic smiles slowly fade away as they begin to look toward an uncertain future.

####Guess Who's Coming to Dinner####
In 1967, Joanna Drayton, a 23-year-old white woman, returns from her Hawaiian vacation to her parents' home in San Francisco with Dr. John Prentice, a 37-year-old black widower. The couple became engaged after a 10-day whirlwind romance. Joanna's parents are Matt Drayton, a successful newspaper editor, and his wife, Christina, who owns an art gallery. Though both of the Draytons are liberal-minded, they are initially shocked their daughter is engaged to a man of a different race. Christina gradually accepts the situation, but Matt objects because of the likely unhappiness and seemingly insurmountable problems the couple will face in American culture.

Without telling Joanna, John tells the Draytons he will withdraw from the relationship unless both Draytons give the couple their blessing. To complicate matters, John is scheduled to fly to New York later that night, and then to Geneva, Switzerland for three months in his work with the World Health Organization. His answer from the Draytons, therefore, will determine whether Joanna will follow him. Tillie, the Draytons' black housekeeper, suspicious of John's motives and protective of Joanna, privately corners John and speaks her mind. To John's surprise, Joanna invites John's parents to fly up from Los Angeles to join them for dinner that evening. John has not told them his fiancée is white. Monsignor Ryan, Matt's golf buddy, arrives after Matt cancelled their game. He tells both Matt and the couple he is supportive of the engagement. But Matt will not yield. Christina tells Matt she, too, is supportive of Joanna, even if it means fighting Matt. Christina fires her bigoted art gallery manager, Hilary St. George, who nosily intrudes and voices her sympathy for Christina's situation. On the way to the airport to meet John's parents, the couple stops for a drink with an old friend of Joanna's and her husband; they are also completely supportive.

John's parents, the Prentices, arrive. They, too, are shocked when discovering Joanna is white. At the Drayton home, various private conversations occur among the two families. All agree more time is needed to absorb the situation. The two mothers meet and agree this was an unexpected event, but support their children. The two fathers meet, both expressing disapproval at this unhappy occasion. The Monsignor advises John not to withdraw, despite Matt's objections. John's mother tells him she and Christina both approve. John and his father discuss their generational differences. John's mother tells Matt that he and her husband have forgotten what it was like to fall in love, and their failure to remember true romance has clouded their thinking. John chides Matt for not having the "guts" to tell him face to face he disapproved of the marriage. Finally, Matt reveals his decision about the engagement to the entire group. In his speech, Joanna learns for the first time that John made their marriage conditional on the Draytons' approval. Matt ultimately concludes, after having listened to John's mother, that he does remember what true romance is. He says although the pair face enormous problems ahead due to their racial differences, they must find a way to overcome them, and he will approve the marriage, knowing all along he had no right to stop it. The families and the Monsignor then adjourn to the dining room for dinner.

####Happythankyoumoreplease####
In New York City, Sam Wexler is a writer on the verge of turning 30 and is unsuccessfully trying to get his first novel published. On the subway, he meets foster care child Rasheen and decides to take the boy in for a few days. Meanwhile, Sam's best friend Annie, a woman struggling with hair loss due to the autoimmune disorder alopecia, tries to find a reason to be loved. Sam's cousin Mary Catherine considers leaving New York for California after her boyfriend Charlie tells her about a promising job offer in Los Angeles. When Mary finds out she is pregnant, her decision to stay or leave becomes complicated. Sam also meets Mississippi, an aspiring singer who is trying to make it in the city and works at a cabaret.

Sam's attempt to return the young Rasheen to the social services fails when the boy is determined not to re-enter the foster care program. Sam subsequently tries to adopt the boy, but botches the application process in a fashion that ends in his brief arrest. Rasheen is finally placed with a new foster family, but Sam keeps tabs on his new situation, including providing the boy with drawing materials when he learns of his artistic abilities. Sam also works on bringing Mississippi into his life, with several setbacks, but at movie's end it appears that their relationship is in place.

####Harold and Maude####
Harold Chasen is a young man obsessed with death. He stages elaborate fake suicides, attends funerals (usually for people that he doesn't know), and drives a hearse, all to the chagrin of his self-obsessed, wealthy socialite mother. His mother sends Harold to a psychoanalyst, sets him up with blind dates, and buys him a luxury car, all schemes he subverts in his own way.

Harold meets 79-year-old Maude one day while at a random stranger's funeral Mass, and discovers that they share a hobby. Harold is entranced by Maude's quirky outlook on life, which is bright and delightfully carefree in contrast with his moribund demeanor. Maude lives in a decommissioned railroad car and thinks nothing of breaking the law; she is quite skilled at stealing cars and will swiftly uproot an ailing tree on public property to re-plant it in the forest. She and Harold form a bond and Maude shows Harold the pleasures of art and music (including how to play banjo), and teaches him how to make "the most of his time on earth." Meanwhile, Harold's mother is determined, against Harold's wishes, to find him a wife. One by one, Harold frightens and horrifies each of his appointed computer dates, by appearing to commit gruesome acts: self-immolation, self-mutilation, and seppuku. His mother tries enlisting him in the military by sending Harold to his uncle, who lost an arm serving under General MacArthur in the Second World War, but Harold deters the recruitment by staging a scene where Maude poses as a pacifist protester and Harold seemingly murders her out of militarist fanaticism.

As Harold and Maude grow closer, their friendship blossoms into a romance. Holding her hand, Harold discovers a number tattooed on her forearm, indicating Maude survived the Nazi death camps. Harold announces that he will marry Maude, resulting in disgusted outbursts from his family, analyst, and priest. Unbeknownst to  Harold, Maude has been planning to commit suicide on her eightieth birthday. Maude's birthday arrives, and Harold throws a surprise party for her. As the pair dance, Maude tells Harold that she "couldn't imagine a lovelier farewell." When Maude reveals that she has taken an overdose of sleeping pills, and will be dead by midnight, Harold rushes Maude to the hospital. After learning of Maude's death, Harold is shown speeding down a country road, and sending the car off a seaside cliff. After the crash, the final shot reveals Harold standing calmly atop the cliff, holding his banjo and wearing colorful clothing for the first time in the film. After gazing down at the wreckage, he dances away to "If You Want to Sing Out, Sing Out".

####He Laughed Last####
A Runyonesque Roaring 20s musical comedy about a show girl who circumstance casts as an unlikely mob boss.

####The Heart Specialist####
A modern comedy about the everyday perils of first year medical residents at a shabby south Florida hospital. Wood Harris is the Chief Resident, who teaches the trainees how to save lives and not take themselves too seriously, all the while hiding a chilling secret of his own.

####The Heartbreak Kid####
In New York City, after a very short courtship, emotionally shallow, self-absorbed Lenny Cantrow (Charles Grodin), a sporting goods salesman, is married to Lila (Jeannie Berlin, daughter of director Elaine May), an earnest young woman who expects long-term emotional commitment of Lenny.

During their honeymoon in Miami Beach, Lenny meets and pursues the beautiful but shallow Kelly Corcoran (Cybill Shepherd), a college student on holiday with her wealthy parents. When Lila is severely sunburned, Lenny quarantines her to their hotel room as he engages in a series of rendezvous with Kelly, lying to Lila about his whereabouts. Lenny impulsively ends his marriage to pursue an indifferent Kelly, explaining that she is the woman he has been waiting for all of his life and just "timed it wrong".

After leaving Lila after only five days of marriage, he follows Kelly to Minnesota, where her resentful and  protective father (Eddie Albert) stands in his way. Following an awkward dinner where Lenny inanely praises Midwestern produce as having "no deceit", Mr. Corcoran offers Lenny a $25,000 bribe to leave. Lenny angrily refuses and soon marries Kelly.

At the reception, his attempt to mingle with the attendees via mindless conversation fails and he is ignored by the guests, his bride, and new in-laws. He is soon reduced to quoting cliches to two uncomprehending children and is soon left alone, humming to himself while the party continues around him.

####Heartburn####
Manhattan food writer Rachel Samstat and Washington, D.C. political columnist Mark Forman meet at a mutual friend's wedding. Both have been married before and Mark has a reputation for being a serial womanizer. After a whirlwind courtship, the two marry, despite Rachel's reservations.

They purchase a dilapidated townhouse and Rachel struggles to adapt to being a wife in Washington's political high society. The ongoing renovations of their house create some stress in Mark and Rachel's marriage, but they are brought closer together when she discovers she is pregnant. Rachel experiences a difficult labor in which the baby's life is briefly threatened, but she gives birth to a healthy baby girl, Annie.

Soon after, Rachel discovers evidence of Mark's extramarital affair with socialite Thelma Rice during her pregnancy with her second child. She leaves him and takes their daughter to New York, where she moves in with her father and gets her job back as a food writer.

Although Rachel insists that she has left him for good, she is dismayed when he fails to call her after several days. She inadvertently leads a burglar to a group therapy session she is attending in her therapist's apartment; he robs the group and takes Rachel's wedding ring. Just after, Mark arrives and asks her to come back, insisting he will never see Thelma again.

Rachel gives birth to their second child, but struggles to fully forgive Mark. She spreads a nasty rumor about Thelma having an infection (possibly herpes) but is caught out by Mark.

The New York police return Rachel's wedding ring after they catch the burglar. When she takes it to the jeweler's to get the stone tightened, she discovers that Mark has bought a very expensive necklace, which coincides with Thelma's birthday. Realizing that he has returned to the affair, Rachel sells her wedding ring and leaves with both her children for New York, this time for good.

####Hedwig and the Angry Inch####
Hansel Schmidt is a gay, East German teenager who loves rock music and is stuck in East Berlin until he meets Sergeant Luther Robinson, an American soldier. Luther proposes marriage to Hansel, persuading him to change his sex in order to leave Communist East Germany for the West as his wife, as that was the only legal solution. Hansel's mother, Hedwig, gives her child her name and passport and finds a doctor to perform a genital surgery. The operation is botched, however, leaving Hansel – now Hedwig – with a dysfunctional one-inch mound of flesh between her legs, the titular "Angry Inch".

Hedwig goes to live in Junction City, Kansas as Luther's wife. On their first wedding anniversary, Luther leaves Hedwig for a man. That same day, it is announced that the Berlin Wall has fallen and East Germans are flooding freely into the West, meaning as material gains go, Hedwig's sacrifices have been for nothing. Hedwig recovers from the separation by confidently accepting her identity as a woman, picking up some "odd jobs," and returning to her "first love" of music by forming a rock band composed of Korean-born Army wives. Babysitting for "the commander of the nearby fort," she befriends Tommy Speck, a shy and misunderstood teenager questioning his Christian upbringing. For six months, she teaches him "rock history, lyrics, grooming, and vocal training" taking him from playing the occasional guitar masses to the two of them "out-grossing monster trucks in Wichita." Hedwig gives him the stage name "Tommy Gnosis" (stating that "Gnosis" is the Greek word for "knowledge") for his graduation. Upon discovering her "inch," Tommy leaves Hedwig and goes on to become a wildly successful rock star by stealing Hedwig's songs.

Hedwig and her band, the Angry Inch (now composed of Eastern Europeans including her husband, Yitzhak), are forced to support themselves by playing in a chain of failing seafood restaurants called Bilgewater's and other small venues. Hedwig is following Tommy's tour while pursuing a copyright lawsuit. In between songs, she reflects on her life's story through flashbacks and stories told directly to either uninterested restaurant patrons or her small, but loyal group of fans.

Throughout the film, Hedwig refers to Aristophanes' speech in Plato's "Symposium". This myth, retold by Hedwig in the song "The Origin of Love", explains that human beings were once round, two-faced, four-armed, and four-legged beings. Angry gods split these early humans in two, leaving the separated people with a lifelong yearning for their other half.

Near the end of the film, Hedwig is down and out, her band and manager having abandoned her in disgust after she tears up Yitzhak's passport. While working as a streetwalker, she finally reunites with Tommy and they reconcile. After the two of them accidentally drive Tommy's limo into a news truck, paparazzi burst onto the scene, Hedwig becomes famous and Gnosis' popularity tanks. Reunited with her band, Hedwig performs at Times Square, culminating in a violent removal of her drag.

Entering the final chapter of the film, it seems to take place in a non-real space, perhaps Hedwig's mind. Now in male form, Hedwig discovers herself alone in front of Tommy on a huge stage. Tommy sings to Hedwig, pleading forgiveness and saying goodbye; she realizes that she created her "other half" from within herself. Hedwig then finds herself back at Times Square, but the space seems transformed, with ambient white lighting. The band members, dressed all in white, are already in their places on stage. Hedwig gives Yitzhak her blonde wig, allowing Yitzhak to take her place, and sings in solidarity with "all the misfits and losers" of the world. A brief animated sequence symbolizing the union of the separated Platonic halves leads to the final shot: Hedwig walking naked down a dark alley and into the street.

####Hello, My Name Is Doris####
Doris Miller is a shy, eccentric, 60-something woman, living alone following the death of her mother, with whom she has lived for her whole life. At the funeral, her brother Todd and his wife Cynthia try to persuade her to sell the house, especially the possessions she has hoarded over decades.

Doris had been caring for her mother for years and thereby neglecting her own social life and development. As a result, she is relatively reclusive and unfamiliar with social trends. She spends time with her close friend, the fiery Roz, and her teenage granddaughter, Vivian.

On Doris's way to work in Manhattan, where she has been doing data entry for decades, she meets her new young co-worker, John, with whom she is immediately infatuated. Empowered by self-improvement tapes, Doris decides to pursue a romantic relationship with him.

Doris finds ways to get John's attention; the attempts are frequently combined with fantasies about a passionate love affair between them. With Vivian's help, Doris creates a fake social media profile in order to find information about John and discovers that he loves an electro-pop band that is planning an upcoming concert in the area. Doris buys one of the band's CDs, which gets John's attention, and attends the concert, where she meets him and they spend time together.

The band is intrigued by Doris and invite her backstage, where they spend a fun evening meeting young artists in the area. John tells Doris that he and his girlfriend recently broke up over text and asks her about her love life. She reveals that she was engaged in the past, but had to end it to take care of her mother. John gives her a friendly kiss goodnight, cementing Doris' unrequited love.

John is distracted for the next week, and Doris discovers that he has a girlfriend, Brooklyn. Though she is friendly and welcoming, Doris is devastated. She spends the night drinking wine and impulsively posts a comment on John's social media wall while using her fake profile, posing as a scorned young woman with whom he had a torrid love affair.

The next morning, Todd arrives with Doris' therapist, planning on decluttering her house, but when Cynthia tries to throw out a pencil Doris stole from John, Doris angrily throws them out.

At work, Brooklyn arrives and has a fight with John before breaking up with him. She later tells Doris that she had seen the comment on his wall and accused him of cheating, as she was cheated on in the past. After work, John tells Doris about the incident and invites her to his Thanksgiving for friends. She agrees, and when he asks her if she would ever be interested in dating a younger man, she is elated.

Doris dresses up the Thanksgiving party where she meets John's uncle, who is clearly interested. During the party, she asks to talk to John in his bedroom. Trying to come onto him, Doris admits she has always liked him and that the comment causing Brooklyn to break up with him was hers.

Furious, John rebuffs her. When a flustered Doris asks him what he meant by asking her if she was interested in younger men, John clarifies that he was trying to set her up with his uncle, who is a decade younger than her. Doris leaves, deeply hurt, and invites Roz over for comfort.

Doris invites her therapist over again to declutter her house, and she succeeds in getting it cleaned up. She quits her job and says good-bye to John before she leaves. She has another fantasy where John kisses her and proposes they be together; in reality, she enters the elevator to leave, alone. After hesitating, John calls out her name and runs toward the elevator. Doris smiles as the doors close.

####Here Comes the Navy####
Riveter "Chesty" O'Conner (James Cagney) and his best friend, "Droopy" (Frank McHugh), join the US Navy to annoy O'Connor's nemesis, Chief Petty Officer "Biff" Martin (Pat O'Brien). O'Conner gets himself court-martialled for being AWOL while visiting Martin's sister Dorothy (Gloria Stuart). Disgruntled at his treatment, O'Connor angrily derides the Navy and finds himself ostracized by his fellow sailors.

During gunnery practice, O'Conner helps put out a fire in a gun room and receives the Navy Cross medal, but is still determined to get out of the Navy. Later. O'Conner transfers to the US Naval Air Service and is assigned to the rigid airship USS|Macon|ZRS-5|6. When the "Macon" tries to dock, Martin is accidentally caught on a guide rope and is hoisted into the air. #tag:ref| The incident mirrored other accidents with ground crew being hoisted up when airships had mooring problems.|group=Note Despite orders, O'Conner climbs down the rope and saves Martin's life by parachuting both of them to the ground.

Later, at the wedding of O'Conner to Dorothy, Martin finds out that O'Conner has been promoted to boatswain and now outranks him.

####Hide-Out####
A womanizing racketeer (Montgomery) is wounded by police and hides out in a farmhouse, where he falls in love with a country girl (O'Sullivan) and meets her wholesome family.

####High Fidelity####
Rob Gordon is a music-loving man with a poor understanding of women. After being dumped by his long-term girlfriend, Laura, he tries to understand how he failed in his relationships by seeking out his old partners.

By day, he works at his record store, Championship Vinyl, where customers drift through. He and his employees Dick and Barry, armed with an encyclopedic knowledge of all things musical, compile "Top 5" lists for every conceivable occasion, openly mock the tastes of their customers, and sell few records.

Two shoplifting, skateboarding teenagers, Vince and Justin, are an annoyance to them until Rob listens to a recording that they made as The Kinky Wizards. He offers them a record deal, the first under his own label, Top 5 Records. During his off-hours, he pines for Laura and tries to win her back.

Laura's father, who liked Rob, dies. Rob attends his funeral with Laura. Shortly after the reception, Rob realizes he has always had one foot out of the door and never committed to her—and in doing so, neglected his own future. They resume living together. He meets a music columnist and develops a crush, but wonders while making a mixtape for her if he would always be jumping from rock to rock.

Rob tells Laura that other women are just fantasies, Laura is reality, and he never tires of her. He proposes marriage; she thanks him for asking. She arranges for him to revisit his former love of dee-jaying. At the celebration of the newly released single by Vince and Justin, where Barry's band Sonic Death Monkey plays "Let's Get It On", Rob is surprised that Barry's band is not a disaster. He is also relieved to discover that Barry has decided against using one of his original names for the band, "Sonic Death Monkey," or "Kathleen Turner Overdrive," preferring instead to call his band "Barry Jive and the Uptown Five."

Rob makes a mixtape for Laura and feels he has finally learned how to make her happy.

####History Is Made at Night####
Irene Vail decides to divorce her husband, the rich ship owner Bruce Vail, after he falsely accuses her of having an affair. Bitterly jealous and possessive of Irene, Bruce learns that he can prevent the divorce from being finalized if he can provide evidence that she has been involved with another man within six months of filing for divorce. Bruce pays his driver, Michael, to go to Irene's hotel room in Paris and pretend to be her lover, with the intention of having a private detective catch them in a compromising position. However, an unknown man overhears Irene's startled cry upon finding Michael in her room. A struggle ensues when the man defends Irene against Michael's unwanted advances, and ends with Michael on the floor, unconscious. When Bruce and the detective burst into the room, the man threatens them with a gun, demands Irene's jewelry, and takes Irene hostage.

Once they are away, the intruder, Paul Dumond, returns Irene's jewelry and invites her to dine with him at the Château Bleu restaurant, where he works as a waiter. They dance the night away and Irene falls madly in love with him. In the morning, Irene returns to find Vail and the police in her room, for Michael is dead. Vail leads her to believe that Paul is responsible for his death, and blackmails her into coming back to America with him in exchange for Paul's freedom. Distraught that he is unable to find Irene, Paul reads in the newspaper that Irene has reunited with her husband and left for America. Sensing something is wrong, he embarks for the United States to find her, accompanied by Cesare, his good friend and head chef of Château Bleu.

In Manhattan, Paul and Cesare rehabilitate a restaurant, with the hope that its reputation will cause Irene to come to dine. The reunion takes place at last, but the happiness is short-lived when Paul learns that Michael is dead and a man has been arrested in Paris for the murder. Unwilling to let an innocent man pay for what he thinks is his crime, Paul embarks for Paris, and Irene joins him. They travel on the liner "Princess Irene", which is owned by Vail and named after her.

Vail learns they are on the ship. In a rage, he radios orders to the captain to run at full speed, despite the danger of collision with an iceberg in the poor weather conditions, supposedly to break the record for fastest crossing. He actually hopes the ship will be sunk, killing Paul and Irene. The ship does strike an iceberg, and premature news reports state that the ship has sunk with horrendous loss of life, with the death toll possibly higher than the "Titanic" disaster. Consumed by guilt, Vail commits suicide and confesses to killing Michael in a suicide note. Fortunately, the "Princess Irene"'s bulkhead doors manage to contain the water and prevent the ship from sinking. Paul and Irene and the other passengers rejoice when they hear they are to be rescued.

####Home Fries####
The film opens at Burger-Matic, where Henry Lever orders a milkshake at the drive-thru. At the window, he tells the attendant, Sally Jackson, that his wife knows about their affair. She asks him if he has also told his wife about her pregnancy. On his way home, he encounters a ferocious wind. It turns out to be a Cobra attack helicopter, which runs him off the road. In a panic, he flees through the woods and drops his heart medication. At an outdoor chapel, he sits on a bench as the helicopter hovers in front of him. The pilot, Angus Montier, shoots at the ground near him despite the protests of his copilot and brother, Dorian. The shots scare him enough to cause a fatal heart attack.

Throughout the attack, Dorian and Angus hear the chatter of Sally and her coworkers. Likewise, they hear the helicopter pilots on headsets. The next day, the police inform Beatrice Lever that Henry has died. She appears shocked and crestfallen, when Dorian and Angus arrive. It quickly becomes clear that she encouraged her sons to scare him to death. She is also furious about his affair, and wants revenge on his mistress. Angus and Dorian are worried that the people they heard on the radio might have overheard enough to connect them to his death. They quickly deduce that Burger-Matic is the only location close enough to have been on the same frequency. Angus goads Dorian into getting a job there to ensure that no one is wise to their crime.

Sally is heartbroken at the news about Henry. At work, Dorian bonds with her quickly. He gives her a model helicopter for her baby, and he explains that he and Angus fly them as reservists for the National Guard. She asks him to accompany her to lamaze class, since she doesn't have a partner. Eventually, he takes her to the base to see the helicopter that he flies. As she sits in the cockpit, she tells him about Henry.

Knowing that his mother is still furious about Henry's affair and that Angus would hurt Sally if he knew her identity, Dorian frantically tries to keep the truth from his family. When Angus discovers Sally's identity, Beatrice visits her under the pretense of making amends. Dorian is terrified of what Angus might do out of a misplaced loyalty to their crazy mother. Sure enough, he arrives at Sally's house in the attack helicopter. She, Dorian, and Beatrice escape in a truck. He eventually forces them to stop on the road. Beatrice pretends to be unaware of what is going on and leaves the truck. Dorian gradually convinces Angus to stop his attack.

The stress of the chase triggers Sally's labor, and Dorian drives her to the hospital. After she has a boy, he talks to him. He struggles to explain how they are related, and he tells him that he is lucky to have the best mother in the world.

####The Hope Chest####
Sheila Moore (Gish) takes a job at a candy store to support her father, an out-of-work vaudevillian. She attracts the romantic attentions of the store owner's son Tom (Barthalmess) and marries him, incurring the wrath of Tom's parents.

####Hope Springs####
Although a devoted couple, empty nesters Kay and Arnold Soames are in need of help to reignite the spark in their marriage. Married for thirty-one years, they have slept in separate bedrooms for various pragmatic reasons since their youngest child went off to college, and forgo any physical affection.

One day Kay, a Coldwater Creek employee, tells Arnold, a partner in an Omaha accounting firm, she has paid for them to undergo a week of intense marriage counseling with Dr. Bernie Feld in a coastal resort town in Maine. Arnold, a creature of plodding, unimaginative routine, denies their marriage is in trouble.

In sessions with the psychiatrist, they try to articulate their feelings, revitalize their relationship, and find the spark that caused them to fall in love in the first place. Dr. Feld counsels them, asking increasingly frank questions about their sex life and feelings. Both private and old-fashioned, Arnold is angry and defensive, unwilling to see the depth of his wife's disappointment. Upset, Kay goes alone to a bar where she has several glasses of wine, confides in the female bartender and learns that few others are having any sex, either. Arnold visits a nautical museum.

Back together, they spend the night in the same bed for the first time in years, and Kay awakes to find Arnold's arm around her. At this sign of progress, Dr. Feld urges new measures. They make halting attempts at intimacy on the bed of their budget motel and again in a movie theater, but this time with disastrous results.

In a one-on-one session, Dr. Feld explains to Arnold that couples seeking marriage counseling are doing so for a reason, and asks him frankly, "Is this the best you can do?"  Arnold finally takes the initiative to arrange a romantic dinner and a night at a luxury inn, where they attempt to make love in front of a fireplace, but the grand gesture ultimately fails. At their final session, Dr. Feld tells them they've made much progress and should take up couples therapy back home.

Back in Omaha, old habits resume. Kay offers to pet-sit for a fellow employee and packs a bag to stay there, as a first step in a permanent break with Arnold. That night, both are shown in bed trying to sleep. Arnold enters Kay's bedroom and they tenderly embrace. The lovemaking that follows is warm, natural, and quietly passionate.

The next morning it's clear that the marriage has shifted into an improved direction. Later that year, as Kay said she fantasized, they renew their wedding vows on a beach with Dr. Feld and their grown children present, making promises to be more understanding and considerate of each other.

####The Hotel New Hampshire####
In the 1950s, Win Berry and his wife have five children, John, Franny, Frank, Lilly, and Egg. The Berrys decide to open a hotel near the prep school that John, Franny, and Frank attend; they call it the Hotel New Hampshire.

John loses his virginity to the hotel waitress. Frank comes out to Franny and John. Franny is raped by big man on campus Chip Dove and his buddies, and is rescued by Junior Jones and other black members of the football team. John confesses that he's in love with her. The family dog, Sorrow, dies and Frank has him stuffed. Sorrow's reappearance at Christmas causes grandfather Iowa Bob to suffer a fatal heart attack.

A letter arrives from their friend Freud, inviting the Berrys to move to Vienna and run Freud's gasthaus. The family flies to Europe; tragically, the plane carrying Mrs. Berry and Egg explodes, killing them. In Vienna, the family moves into the gasthaus and renames it Hotel New Hampshire.

An upper floor houses prostitutes and the basement is occupied by various political radicals. Assisting Freud, who has gone blind, is Susie the Bear, a young lesbian who lives her life almost completely in a bear costume. One of the radicals, Ernst, resembles Chip Dove and Franny becomes infatuated with him. Susie and John, who are both in love with Franny, try to keep her away from him. Susie is initially successful in seducing Franny, who soon ends up with Ernst. Lilly, now an adult but still in a 13-year-old body, begins writing a novel called "Trying to Grow".

Miss Miscarriage, a radical, grows very fond of the family, and especially of Lilly. She invites John to hers, sleeping with him, then warns him to get the family out of Vienna. For her trouble, another of the radicals murders her. Back at the hotel, John and the rest of the family are caught up in the radicals' plan to blow up the Vienna State Opera with a car bomb. The blind Freud, to spare the family, volunteers to drive with one of the radicals. As he leaves, the Berrys attack the remaining radicals and Freud detonates the bomb right outside the hotel. Ernst is killed and Win is blinded in the explosion.

Hailed as heroes by the Austrians, the Berry family decides to return home. Lilly's novel is published and the interest in the Berrys' story leads to a biopic, written by Lilly and starring Franny as herself. The Berrys are in New York City when John and Susie run into Chipper Dove on the streets. The group lure him to Franny's hotel suite and take their revenge upon him, until Franny calls it off.

Meanwhile, John's love for Franny has not abated. She finally calls him over to her room, and hoping to get him over it once and for all, has sex with him for almost a day. Franny's Hollywood career is beginning to take off, with Frank acting as her agent and with Junior Jones back in the picture. Lilly's writing career has stalled, and depressed and suffering from writer's block, she commits suicide.

Later, John is staying with his father at the latest Hotel New Hampshire, which stands empty. Susie comes to stay with them and she and John become involved. Win heartily approves because, as he puts it, every hotel needs a bear.

####House Calls####
Charles Nichols is a respected doctor. He is also a new widower, and as soon as he returns to Los Angeles from a tropical vacation and period of mourning, he finds himself propositioned by a number of women.

The hospital where Charley works is ineptly run by Dr. Amos Willoughby, a senile chief of staff. Typical of the incompetence there is the way a fractured jaw of patient Ann Atkinson is being treated by Willoughby with a primitive contraption.

Charley frees her from the device, angering Willoughby for stealing a patient. Charley and his pal Dr. Norman Solomon know something needs to be done about Willoughby, but because the "old fart" now has a hold on him, Charley agrees to nominate Willoughby for one more term as the hospital's chief.

The divorced Ann proves attractive to Charley. She is a bright conversationalist and bakes delicious cheesecake that she sells. Charley enjoys being with her and helps her land a job at the hospital, but with all the available women out there, he is reluctant to commit to a monogamous relationship. Ann finally persuades him to agree to a trial period of a few weeks.

At the hospital, a botched diagnosis leads to the death of a wealthy owner of a baseball team. The widow, Ellen Grady, intends to sue for millions, saying the only thing she knows about medicine is that nobody at this place can practice it.

Charley tries to charm her. They share a common background and Mrs. Grady is definitely interested in him. But she nonetheless adamantly refuses to drop the lawsuit, and when Charley neglects a date with Ann and shows up late with a lame excuse, she angrily hides his clothes while he showers.

Ann also wants him to show some backbone in not nominating Willoughby for chief of medicine, but he does so anyway. Willoughby reneges on a promise to stop personally treating patients, however, so Charley takes back his nomination. He then does his best to win Ann back as well.

####How Do You Know####
Softball player Lisa Jorgenson begins dating Matty Reynolds, a pitcher for the Washington Nationals. She also receives an intriguing phone call from a young executive, George Madison, who was advised by a friend of Lisa's to give her a call. George calls out of politeness because he wants to explain that his relationship with his girlfriend has just become more serious.

Life takes an abrupt turn for the worse for George when he suddenly finds himself the target of a federal criminal investigation for corporate malfeasance at a company run by his father, Charles Madison. He is fired from his job and abandoned by the company, with the exception of his father and his pregnant secretary, Annie.

Still reeling from this blow, George goes to his girlfriend for sympathy and is stunned when she immediately breaks up with him. At the same time, Lisa is devastated when she is left off the Team USA roster.

On a whim, George calls again to invite Lisa to lunch and she accepts. It turns out to be a disaster; he is so overwhelmed with his troubles that she eventually asks that they just eat in silence, and they part ways not expecting to see one another again. Unsure what to do next, Lisa moves in with Matty, who has a penthouse in the same upscale building where George's father lives. Matty is rich, well-meaning and fun, but is also immature and insensitive, and continues to have casual affairs with other women.

George is indicted and could face prison time. Annie is so loyal that she tries to give him inside information in advance, but he urges her not to lose her own job. George and Lisa bump into each other in Matty's building and he offers to help her carry her groceries home. Matty returns home and is upset to find Lisa at “his place” with an uninvited guest.

Matty inadvertently offends her, so Lisa moves out and spends a pleasant, tipsy evening at George's modest new apartment. His father then drops one last bombshell on his son: It was he who committed the illegal act for which George is being charged. Due to a previous conviction, Charles would spend at least 25 years &mdash; basically, the rest of his life due to his advanced age &mdash; in prison, whereas George would only do three years at most.

On the night Annie's baby is born and her boyfriend proposes, Lisa begins to reconsider her previous reluctance to settle down. George is clearly smitten with her, but Matty pleads for another chance and she accepts. George makes a proposition to his father: he will take one more shot at persuading Lisa to be with him. If she does, Charles must go to jail, and if she doesn't, George will take the rap for his dad.

At a birthday party that Matty throws for Lisa, George confesses his feelings for her and asks her to meet him downstairs if she decides she reciprocates them. He then leaves the party and goes downstairs to give her time to think it over. Finally, Lisa says goodbye to Matty and joins George outside. Charles, looking on from above smiles at the sight, but his smile soon fades as he realises he has to go to jail.

Lisa is confused about her feelings and tells George, "I thought you were this silly guy. Now it's like... everything but you seems silly." George suggests she had never felt the kind of overwhelming love where the guy is the whole deal, which helps her realise that she's in love with him. Lisa then reaches out and holds his hand and we see them board a bus together.

####How to Deal####
Halley Martin is a 17-year-old high school student who is disillusioned with love after seeing many dysfunctional relationships around her. Her parents are now divorced and her father, Len Martin, a radio talk show host, has a new young girlfriend that the entire family despises. Her mother, Lydia, is now always alone while her sister, Ashley, is so overwhelmed by her upcoming wedding with Lewis Warsher that she barely exists in the house. The shallowness of all the teens at her school convinces Halley that finding true love is impossible.

When Halley walks in on her best friend Scarlett having sex with her boyfriend, the high school soccer champ, Michael Sherwood, Halley tries to warn her of the complications that lie ahead. Ignoring her advice, Scarlett embarks on a summer fling with Michael. In the meantime, Halley must deal with Ashley and the rest of the Martins must deal with her soon-to-be in-laws, Lewis' overbearing Southern parents, who have an African American maid. In the meantime, Halley runs into classmate Macon Forrester, a slacker who never shows up for biology and is more interested in having fun than school work. He is Michael Sherwood's best friend.

Then a few weeks later, Michael dies of a heart defect on the soccer field while Halley, Scarlett and other classmates watch helplessly. This event changes the lives of Halley and Scarlett forever. While Scarlett does her best to look beautiful for Michael at his funeral, Macon gives a moving speech about his friend. Struggling with Michael's death, Scarlett, at age sixteen, soon learns that she is pregnant with his child. With Halley at her side, Scarlett reveals the pregnancy to her mother.

Halley's father, Len Martin, marries his mistress, Lorna, in a beach-side ceremony, with guests from all over the world, or "within his radio frequency", as Halley puts it.

Halley and Macon eventually start a relationship. He takes her to his and Michael's favorite hangout and once come close to having sex. Halley and her mother get into an argument and on New Year's Eve that got her punished, Halley sneaks out with Macon to a party. Again, they come very close to having sex but this time Halley stops it and Macon is upset. On their way home, they are both upset and distracted and hit a tree. Halley gets a broken arm, but otherwise they both walk away from it unharmed, but Halley breaks up with Macon saying that she can't wait around for him to grow up. Later things go awry when Halley finds Ashley drunk on the family's front porch. Finding a male stripper's thong around her neck, Halley witnesses the break-up of her sister's engagement. She also learns that her mother sneaks out once a week to have sex with a man she met a couple of weeks previously, Steve. After another make-up, Lewis proposes to Ashley again, this time at a crowded airport: she says yes.

On the day of Ashley and Lewis' wedding, Macon bursts into Len's radio studio, professing his apologies and love to Halley. He then heads to the wedding. On the way, he finds Scarlett, who insisted on walking to the wedding, going into labor on the side of the road. He puts her in the car and walks into the wedding, getting Halley's attention. The three rush to the hospital, leaving Scarlett's mother behind in the rush.

While Scarlett is having her baby, Halley makes a list of all the little things she hates about Macon, the way his hair falls over his face, the way his voice gets low when he's serious, the way he bites his lip when he's nervous and the way his eyebrow twitches. Halley playfully uses Macon's 'Jedi Mind Trick' and they kiss and dance briefly in the hallway. The movie ends as Halley and Macon embrace and viewers see that Scarlett gave birth to a baby girl.

####The Humbling####
Simon Axler is an aging actor who suffers from bouts of dementia. He is institutionalized after an incident during a Broadway play, then returns home, where he contemplates suicide in Hemingway style. When he embarks upon an affair with an old friend's amoral bisexual daughter, his world starts to fall apart. It ends on stage, with even Axler's audience and fellow actors unsure of what's real and what's not.

####The Hunchback of Notre Dame II####
Some years after the events of the original film, Captain Phoebus serves as Paris' Captain of the Guard under the new Minister of Justice, while he and Esmeralda are now married and have a son named Zephyr. Quasimodo is now an accepted member of Parisian society, though he still lives in Notre-Dame de Paris with his gargoyle friends Victor, Hugo, and Laverne as the cathedral's bell-ringer.

A circus troupe led by Sarousch enters town as part of "Le Jour d'Amour" ("The Day of Love"), a day dedicated to the celebration of strong and pure romantic love. Sarousch is secretly a master criminal who plans to steal Notre Dame's most beloved bell, La Fidèle, the inside of which is decorated with beige-gold and enormous jewels. He sends Madellaine, an aspiring trapeze girl in his troupe, to go to Quasimodo and pretend to love him in order to discover the whereabouts of La Fidèle.

Madellaine encounters Quasimodo without seeing his face, and the two of them initially get along quite well. Once Madellaine actually sees his face, she is shocked at his deformed appearance and runs away from him. The gargoyles convince Quasimodo to go to the circus to see her again. At the circus, Sarousch captures the audience's attention by making an elephant disappear, while his associates steal from the audience. He pressures Madellaine to follow Quasimodo and obtain the information he needs for his plans. When Madellaine disagrees with this mission, Sarousch reminds her of her past and of the loyalty she owes him: when she was six years old, Madellaine was an orphaned thief who was caught trying to steal coins from Sarousch. He could have turned her over to the authorities or even Frollo; instead, Sarousch took her under his wing and decided to employ her in his circus.

Madellaine reluctantly takes the mission to win Quasimodo's trust. After observing Quasimodo fondly playing with Zephyr around town and letting the boy sleep in his arms, Madellaine realizes the hunchback's true nature and ceases to be frightened by his appearance. Quasimodo takes her sight-seeing around Paris. A thunderstorm and the rain force them to end their date and return to Notre Dame. Quasimodo takes the opportunity to offer Madellaine a gift, a figurine in her own image which he created himself earlier. A sincerely touched Madellaine kisses him on the forehead and leaves. Quasimodo soon realizes that he has fallen in love with her.

Meanwhile, Phoebus is investigating reports about robberies in his city. He suspects that the circus is responsible for the crime spree and confides to his family and friends, but Esmeralda expresses her belief that Phoebus is motivated by his own prejudice against the circus. Elsewhere, Sarousch instructs Madellaine to keep Quasimodo preoccupied while the circus steals La Fidèle. However, Madellaine has come to genuinely care for Quasimodo and protests, so Sarousch threatens to have Quasimodo killed if she refuses. Phoebus eventually questions Sarousch about the robberies and finds a stolen jewel in his possession. To avoid being arrested, Sarousch claims that Madellaine is a lifelong thief and that he is covering for her crimes. Phoebus seems to believe him.

Later, while Quasimodo is out with Madellaine, Sarousch and two of his subordinates sneak into the cathedral and steal La Fidèle, although they are followed by Djali and Zephyr, the latter of whom wanted to join the circus. The gargoyles try to stop the thieves, but end up trapped under another bell; Laverne still sounds the bell and alerts everyone that something is amiss at the cathedral. Hearing the sound, Quasimodo and Madellaine rush back. When the Archdeacon informs everyone that La Fidèle has been stolen, Clopin claims that if they do not find the bell, the festival will be ruined. Phoebus realizes that Sarousch has played him for a fool. He sends the soldiers all over Paris to find Sarousch. Quasimodo realizes that his beloved Madellaine has deceived him (despite her pleas that she did not intend to) and angrily breaks off their relationship. He retreats deeper into the cathedral, feeling heartbroken and betrayed.

Phoebus has his guards arrest Madellaine for her involvement in the theft. The gargoyles soon inform Quasimodo that Zephyr has left to pursue Sarousch. He passes the information on to Esmeralda and Phoebus, who now have personal reasons to locate the master criminal. Madellaine, now a prisoner of Phoebus, apologizes for her crimes and informs them that Sarousch has taken the missing bell to the Catacombs of Paris and tries to explain the secrets behind her former master's tricks and illusions. Phoebus decides to search around the catacombs, and reluctantly brings Madellaine after Esmeralda convinced him that she could change. In the Catacombs, the search party encounter Esmeralda's pet goat Djali, who leads them to Sarousch and Zephyr. Sarousch has taken the boy hostage and blackmails Phoebus into opening a gate for him. Madellaine pleads with Quasimodo to release her, promising to make up for her crimes. After he does, she uses her high-wire skills to rescue Zephyr and reunite him with his parents. With no leverage against his pursuers, Sarousch and his group of criminals are arrested, and the missing bell is recovered.

The festival can finally take place. Hugo finally wins the heart of Djali, his longtime crush. A number of romantic couples, including Phoebus and Esmeralda, proclaim their love for each other while Quasimodo rings the restored La Fidèle. The bell falls silent when a released Madellaine joins Quasimodo in the bell tower. The two of them admit their own love for each other and share their first romantic kiss, while Zephyr takes over ringing La Fidèle.

####Husbands and Wives####
The film follows two couples, Jack and Sally, and Gabe and Judy. It starts with Jack and Sally visiting Gabe and Judy's apartment to announce their separation. Gabe is shocked, but Judy takes it personally and is deeply hurt. The four of them go out for dinner at a Chinese restaurant, still confused about the situation.

A few weeks later, Sally visits a colleague's apartment to plan an evening at the opera and dinner. She calls Jack from the colleague's phone and accuses him of having an affair during their marriage after learning that he has met someone new.

Judy and Gabe meet Jack's new girlfriend, Sam, who is an aerobics trainer. While Judy and Sam go shopping, Gabe calls Sam a "cocktail waitress" and tells Jack that he's crazy for leaving Sally for her. Later, Judy introduces Michael, her colleague from the magazine, to Sally. They begin dating, but Sally is unsatisfied with the relationship.

Meanwhile, Gabe has developed a friendship with Rain, a young student, who reads and criticizes his novel manuscript. They share a romantic moment at her 21st birthday party, but Gabe decides they should not pursue it any further.

At a party, Jack learns that Sally is seeing someone else and becomes jealous. He and Sam argue intensely, and Jack drives home to find Sally in bed with Michael. He asks Sally to give their marriage another chance, but she refuses.

Less than two weeks later, Jack and Sally are back together and meet Gabe and Judy for dinner. Afterward, Judy and Gabe argue about her not sharing her poetry, and Gabe makes a failed pass at her. Judy tells him she thinks the relationship is over, and a week later Gabe moves out. Judy begins seeing Michael.

In the end, Jack and Sally are still struggling with their marital problems, but they accept them as the price they have to pay to remain together. Gabe is living alone and not dating to avoid hurting anyone, including himself. The film ends with Gabe asking the unseen documentary crew if he can leave and if the film is over.

####I Can Do Bad All by Myself####
The film opens with April, a self-centered, alcoholic singer, performing at the nightclub Club Indigo where she works.

On the other side of town, Madea and Joe Simmons catch Jennifer, Manny, and Byron breaking into their house. After hearing the children’s troubles, Madea welcomes and feeds them. Manny tells Madea that they're living with their grandmother Rose, whom they haven't seen in four days, and their mother is deceased. They tell her that their only other relative is their Aunt April.

April shares her home with her abusive boyfriend Randy, who's married with children. The next morning, Madea brings the kids to April's house, but April doesn’t want to be bothered. Meanwhile, Pastor Brian sends a Colombian immigrant named Sandino to her house for work and a place to stay. April puts Sandino in her basement and wants to lock him down there because she doesn't know him that well. While working around the house, Sandino surprises April by cleaning himself up. When Randy arrives, he sees April with the kids and Sandino and heckles him while making not-so subtle advances at Jennifer.

Shortly afterward, Pastor Brian and Wilma, a church member, come to inform April that her mother Rose died from a fatal brain aneurysm while riding on a city bus and was cremated. April is devastated by the news and seeks comfort from Randy. However, he is sleeping and shrugs her off. Later, Sandino comforts April as she tells him about her mother's death and the last time she spoke with her. Shortly afterward, Jennifer, Manny, and Byron return to April's after searching for their grandmother, and April dejectedly tells them the news.

Depressed, Jennifer goes to Madea wanting to know how to pray. Inexperienced with prayer, Madea attempts to instruct her in a scene that plays out comically.

Later that night, Tanya, Club Indigo's bartender, sings I Can Do Bad. Before singing the song, Tanya strongly confronts April about her attitude. She says that April must change her selfish ways and think about the safety of Byron, Manny and Jennifer. Tanya declares she loves April, but says she can’t help her unless she helps herself.

Over time, Sandino and April become good friends. Sandino fixes a ruined bedroom in her house. This makes Manny and Byron happy, but upsets Jennifer, who feels April does not want them there. While on a date, Sandino tells April he doesn't understand why she is with Randy and asks if she loves Randy. He tells her what true love is to him. One Sunday morning, Sandino eagerly knocks on April's bedroom door to get April ready for church, but Randy threatens to kill Sandino if he continues to spend time with April.

The next night, Manny needs his insulin shot and Jennifer goes to the kitchen to get it. As she prepares the shot, Randy approaches and attempts to rape her, but Sandino fights him off. April walks in on the fight, and Randy claims Jennifer offered him sex for money. April pretends to believe him and sends Randy to take a bath. When he is in the tub, April threatens to electrocute him with a plugged-in radio. Sandino arrives and tries to stop her, but April is enraged, as she explains that she was sexually abused by her stepfather Lee, who then lied about it to her mother, thus causing April to lose her faith in the people that cared about her. Once this is revealed, it is then known why April became an alcoholic due to her stepfather lying to her mother for years over the sexual abuse and why April chose to live a life without children and resenting her stepfather for what he did to her. Afterward, she drops the radio into the water, giving Randy a severe electric shock. Randy barely jumps out just in time, and Sandino orders him to leave in three minutes.

April goes to Club Indigo for a drink and blames herself for not seeing the signs, just like her mother didn't see the signs with her. Sandino tries to stop her from drinking while mentioning that Randy has moved out, but she pushes him away. She then asks Sandino if he is a child molester because of all the attention he gives the children. Sandino tells April of his childhood as a child laborer and explains that he loves the children so much because he sees himself in them. Feeling hurt at her unfair accusations, Sandino says farewell to the children and leaves.

Jennifer and April begin to get along and connect after April tells Jennifer about her bad experience as a child. Jennifer tells her that she should recognize Sandino as a good man. Eventually, Sandino returns and April apologizes to him and admits that she loves him like a friend. Sandino tells her that she can't love anyone until she learns to love herself. He tells April that he is in love with her, but he wants April to love him back the same way he loves her. He shows her by kissing her.

Eventually, April and Sandino get married. April and Sandino then hold a block party for their reception with Tanya singing "Good Woman Down", dedicated to April, then the new couple is shown embracing and sharing a passionate kiss.

####Ice Princess####
Set in the fictional city of Millbrook, Connecticut, Casey Carlyle (Michelle Trachtenberg), a very smart and talented science student, pursues a scholarship to Harvard University. For the scholarship, she must present a personal summer project about physics. While watching a figure skating competition with her mathematically inclined best friend Ann, Casey realizes that her favorite childhood hobby, ice skating, would make a perfect project. She decides to try to improve her own skating by applying physics and what she has discovered from watching other skaters.

Casey becomes proficient and skips two levels to become a junior skater, following a recital. She helps junior skaters Gennifer "Gen" Harwood (Hayden Panettiere), Tiffany Lai (Jocelyn Lai), and Nikki Fletcher (Kirsten Olson) improve their skating by using algorithms generated by her computer. Torn between her Harvard dream and her growing love of skating, Casey has difficulty juggling schoolwork, skating, and a part-time job. Joan Carlyle (Joan Cusack), Casey's mother, attempts to prevent her daughter from skating due to her declining academic performance. Meanwhile, tension arises between Casey's mother and her coach Tina Harwood (Kim Cattrall), a disgraced former skater who also happens to be Gen's mom.

Tina, who manages the rink where Casey trains, has Gen on a strict training program. During a competition where both Casey and Gen compete, Tina sees Casey may outrank Gen and sabotages Casey's performance by buying her new skates. Unaware of the danger of unbroken-in skates, Casey's resulting long program is riddled with poor jumps and several falls. Upon being informed of Tina's intent behind her seemingly kind gesture, Casey lashes out at her and mistakenly assumes her children were equally involved in the plot. She ranks fifth in the competition and can only qualify for sectionals if any of the top four back out. As a result, Casey loses interest in skating and returns to her studies and goal of attending Harvard.

Upset at her mother's sabotage and frustrated by all the restrictions of training, Gen quits. While Casey and Gen reconcile, Casey can now qualify for sectionals as Gen quit. She declines the Harvard scholarship competition to devote herself to skating, to her mother's dismay. Casey asks Tina to be her personal coach and train for sectionals. Her mother, upset at this change of direction in her life, refuses to watch her skate.

At Sectionals, Casey is not fully focused on the competition, and falls while attempting a triple salchow jump. To her surprise, she sees her mother in the audience. Inspired, she gives a highly rated artistic performance. Sectionals ends with Nikki earning gold and Casey placing silver, both qualifying to go to Nationals and potentially the 2006 Winter Olympics. Gen's brother Teddy Harwood (Trevor Blumas) gives Casey flowers to congratulate her, and they kiss. Later, Joan and Tina bicker about how many college courses Casey should take, her and Teddy's budding love, her sponsors, and her future in figure skating.

####In Good Company####
Dan Foreman is a 51-year-old advertising executive and head of sales for "Sports America", a major sports magazine. Happily married with two daughters, Dan faces a life-changing event when his magazine is bought out by Globecom, an international corporation that promotes the corporate concept of "synergy".

After Dan is forced to fire several of his longtime colleagues, he is demoted and becomes the "wingman" of his new boss, Carter Duryea, a 26-year-old business school prodigy. While Dan develops clients through handshake deals and relationships, Carter champions the corporate creed of synergy, cross-promoting the magazine with the cell phone division and "Krispity Krunch", a snack food also owned by Globecom.

Dan and Carter are both facing challenges in their personal lives. Dan is supporting two daughters—16-year-old Jana and 18-year-old Alex who is preparing to enter college—and learns that his wife is pregnant with their third child.

Meanwhile, Carter is dumped by his adulterous, narcissistic wife of seven months and focuses all of his energy on work. With Dan facing the financial realities of taking out a second mortgage to cover his daughter's college education costs and a new child, and with Carter needing Dan's practical, real-life experience in the field of advertising, the two form an uneasy friendship.

Carter, who has been struggling with loneliness following the breakup of his marriage, invites himself to dinner at Dan's, where he meets his daughter Alex, and there is an immediate attraction. Their initial friendship allows Carter to forget his loneliness, and Alex, now attending NYU, is able to escape her own loneliness and boredom. In the coming days, Carter and Alex become romantically involved. Fearful of offending her father, they keep their relationship a secret.

Their friendship, however, takes a turn for the worse when Dan discovers that Carter and Alex have been seeing each other. He approaches them in a restaurant, and punches his boss in the face. The confrontation with her father convinces Alex to break up with Carter who is heartbroken. Soon after, Globecom CEO Teddy K visits the sales office and during a grand speech to all the employees on synergy and other similar corporate business strategies, he is questioned by Dan and shrugs him off.

Carter's boss, Mark Steckle, tells Carter to fire Dan. He refuses, claiming that losing Dan will cost them a major advertising contract. Steckle gives them 24 hours to seal the contract or be fired. As Dan has developed a long-term relationship with the client, Carter gives way to Dan's personal approach. The strategy works, and they conclude a deal.

Following another corporate shakeup, "Sports America" is sold off, Carter is let go, and Dan returns to his former position as head of sales. Having developed fatherly feelings toward Carter, Dan offers him a position in his new department as his "wingman", but he declines, saying he needs to take some time and discover what he really wants to do in his life.

On his way out of the building, Carter runs into Alex, and they exchange pleasantries. Dan's wife gives birth to a girl. He calls Carter in Los Angeles (who is jogging outdoors for the first time and feels like a new man) with the news.

####In Her Shoes####
Maggie and Rose Feller are very different sisters, raised by their father, Michael and their step-mother Sydelle, after their mother, Caroline died in a car accident. Rose is the elder; an ostensibly plain and serious lawyer who is protective of Maggie despite her flaws. Maggie is a free spirit who is unable to hold a steady job (partly due to her dyslexia) and turns to alcohol and men for emotional and financial support. After Sydelle throws Maggie out, Rose grudgingly allows Maggie to move in with her in her Rittenhouse Square apartment in Philadelphia. Maggie struggles to find a job and soon causes problems for Rose, including getting her car towed. Their already difficult relationship turns worse when Rose catches Maggie in bed with Jim, a man Rose has been dating. A heartbroken and furious Rose throws Maggie out.

A few days before, while secretly looking through her father's desk for money, Maggie had discovered a bundle of old greeting cards for her and Rose, containing cash, from their "estranged" grandmother Ella. Homeless and without job prospects, Maggie travels to Florida to find Ella. Believing Maggie is on vacation, Ella invites her to stay in her home. Ella admits to her close friend Ethel how Caroline had bipolar, and sent Ella a note several days before her death to look after her girls. As time passes, Ella deduces that Maggie has visited to do nothing but sunbathe and try to get money from her. Maggie asks Ella to finance an acting career, but Ella instead proposes to match her salary dollar for dollar if she accepts a job with the assisted living section of her grandmother's retirement community.

Meanwhile, Rose quits her job and decides to take some time off, becoming a dog-walker. She begins dating Simon Stein, a coworker whom she had previously ignored. They fall in love and get engaged. Maggie is befriended by one of her patients, a blind retired professor of English literature, who has asked Maggie to read works of poetry to him.efn|The first poem Maggie is asked to read is "One art" by Elizabeth Bishop. Because of her dyslexia, she struggles at first, but the professor offers guidance and emotional support and over time she improves.

Maggie also becomes friendly with other residents of the retirement community, and discovers some residents need a personal clothing shopper, an activity for which Maggie shows enormous talent. Ella offers to run the financial aspects of the business, which quickly takes off, and in the process she and Maggie become close and resolve their history.

Meanwhile, Rose's reluctance to talk about Maggie is straining her relationships with Simon and her father. While Michael remains oblivious to his daughters' falling out, Simon tries to get Rose to talk about Maggie. When he sees Rose opening up to Jim about her issues instead, Simon breaks off the engagement. Ella contacts Rose and sends her a plane ticket, asking her to come for a visit. Rose confronts her father about hiding their grandmother from her and Maggie, and he reluctantly explains Ella had not approved of Caroline having children because of her mental illness and tendency to neglect her medication, and had blamed him for her death.

Rose is excited to meet her long-lost grandmother, but her pleasure quickly sours when she arrives and discovers Maggie already lives there. While reminiscing with Ella and Rose, Maggie tells a story of their mother taking them on a spontaneous trip to New York. Rose and Ella recognize the details of the story demonstrate Caroline was unwell, while Maggie is oblivious. Rose reveals after the trip Michael and Caroline had a huge argument, with Michael threatening to put her in a mental institution and Caroline killed herself two days later. Maggie realizes Rose had shielded her from the truth about their mother, and they reconcile.

Simon arrives in Florida, summoned by Maggie, and he and Rose reconcile. At last, Rose opens up to him about Maggie and her desire to protect her, fearing Simon will come to hate Maggie. Later, Rose's wedding takes place at the Jamaican Jerk Hut in Philadelphia where she and Simon had their first date. Ella and Michael reconcile, and Maggie reads a poemefn|The powem Maggie reads at the wedding is "i carry your heart with me" by E. E. Cummings. to Rose as a wedding gift, which moves Rose to tears.

####The Incredibly True Adventure of Two Girls in Love####
Randy Dean is a 17-year-old student in her final year with poor grades, only one friend—Frank, a gay Latino—secret cigarette and marijuana habits, and a cashier's job at a gas station with fellow worker Regina. Shunned by other students for her tomboyish personality and appearance, she spends most of her free time either by herself or in illicit meetings with her romantic partner Wendy, a married woman who drops by the gas station when it pleases her, even though Randy knows they are in a dead-end relationship. Randy lives with her lesbian aunt Rebecca and her girlfriend Vicky, as well as Rebecca's ex-girlfriend Lena, who has no place to stay and is living with them until she finds somewhere else she can go to.

One day Evie Roy stops in a pristine Range Rover, unsure if her tires need air. Randy recognizes her from school and talks to her for the first time. Evie is an only child living with her well-off, cultured mother, Evelyn, who has a difficult relationship with her remarried husband. Randy and Evie start passing notes in school and hanging out with each other, although Evie does not reveal this to her cliquish friends. During this time, Randy is approached by Wendy's jealous husband Ali at the gas station, who grabs Randy and warns her to stay away from his wife. Randy spends much of her time with Evie hanging out in meadows, trading music (opera and Mozart from Evie, punk rock from Randy) and talking. When Wendy next visits her, Randy rejects her, telling her she has a new girlfriend, Evie.

Evie breaks up with her boyfriend Hayjay after he complains of her distant attitude towards him. Later, apparently on a spur of the moment, she lends Randy a copy of Walt Whitman’s "Leaves of Grass", which Randy starts to devour. Inviting Evie to her family’s small house for dinner one evening, Randy reveals to her that she has lived with Rebecca and Vicky since Randy's devoutly religious mother abandoned her to devote all her time to an Operation Rescue-like group. On the front steps of Rebecca's house, they kiss for the first time. Evie records it in her diary later, apparently wondering what it all means.

Randy and Evie experiment with how "out" they can be as lesbians, nervously holding hands at a local diner. Remembering Randy’s warning of how intolerant the town can be, Evie nevertheless breaks the news to her three closest friends. One girl is supportive (if confused), but the other two are hostile to the idea, with one of them saying, “God, Evie, if you were gonna turn gay you think you could at least choose someone who’s pretty.” before they all leave, including the supportive friend. Meanwhile, Randy's grades continue to plummet and the school warns her she will not graduate; Randy hides this information from Rebecca. When Evie's mother leaves on a business trip, the girls take the opportunity to cook a huge meal, indulging in wine and marijuana. That night, they make love, then fall asleep in Evie's mother's bed.

The next morning, it is Evie's 18th birthday; Evelyn returns prematurely with presents for her, but is shocked by the mess in the kitchen and the rest of the house. Furiously searching the upstairs, she discovers Evie and Randy, but only realizes Randy is a girl when she runs past her on her way out. Rebecca, who has learned that Randy will not be graduating high school, goes over to go to Frank's house with Vicky and Lena, where Randy had told them she would be staying the night. Rebecca threatens Frank until, panicked, he turns over Evie's phone number. She calls, but Evie and Randy have already absconded and she is left talking to a furious Evelyn.

Evie and Randy, crying, scared and accusatory, take refuge in a motel. Randy finally calls Wendy, who comes out, pays for the room and tries to comfort the girls. Ali sees her car in the parking lot, however, and comes bursting in, eventually attracting Evelyn, Rebecca, Vicky, Lena, Frank, and Evie's three friends, who were driving past reading aloud from Rita Mae Brown’s "Rubyfruit Jungle" (apparently still processing Evie’s news). The movie ends with Randy and Evie kissing and hugging in the open motel room doorway while everyone else argues in the background at top volume.

####Inherent Vice####
In 1970, Shasta Fay Hepworth visits the beach house of her ex-boyfriend, Larry "Doc" Sportello, a private investigator and hippie in Gordita Beach, Los Angeles County. She tells him about her new lover, Michael Z. "Mickey" Wolfmann, a wealthy real estate developer, and asks him to help prevent Mickey's wife from abducting Mickey and committing him to an insane asylum.

Doc meets with Tariq Khalil, a member of the Black Guerrilla Family, who hires him to find Glen Charlock, a member of the Aryan Brotherhood he met in jail, who owes him money and is one of Wolfmann's bodyguards. He visits Mickey's Channel View Estates project, entering the only business in the developing strip mall, a massage parlor, where he meets an employee, Jade. He searches the premises for Charlock, but is hit with a baseball bat and collapses. Doc wakes outside, lying next to Charlock's dead body and surrounded by policemen. Interrogated by LAPD detective Christian F. "Bigfoot" Bjornsen, he learns that Wolfmann has disappeared. His attorney, Sauncho Smilax, arranges for his release by the LAPD.

Doc is hired by former heroin addict Hope Harlingen, who is looking for her missing husband, Coy. Although told that Coy is dead, she believes he is alive due to a large deposit to her bank account. Jade leaves Doc a message apologizing for setting him up with the police and telling him to "beware the Golden Fang." He meets her in an alley, where she explains the Golden Fang is an international drug smuggling operation. Jade introduces Doc to Coy, who tells him he is hiding at a house in Topanga Canyon. In a later meeting, he explains he is a police informant and fears for his life, wanting only to return to his wife and daughter. Doc talks to Sauncho, who tells him about the suspicious boat, the "Golden Fang", which the last time it sailed, Shasta was on board. Thanks to a postcard from her, Doc finds a large building shaped like a golden fang and meets dentist Rudy Blatnoyd.

Bigfoot calls Doc and tells him that Blatnoyd has just been found dead with fang bites in his neck. Bigfoot decides to help Doc find Coy and tells him to search for Puck Beaverton in Chryskylodon, an asylum run by a cult connected to the Golden Fang. There, Doc finds Mickey, who is being watched by the FBI. Mickey tells him he felt guilty for the negativity his real-estate business caused and wants to give his money away, appearing to be a happy member of the cult. Doc also glimpses Puck and Coy. When Doc returns home to his beach house, he is greeted by Shasta, who has returned and is indifferent to the trouble her disappearance has caused. She tells him Mickey is back with his wife. Shasta confesses to having been on the "Golden Fang" with Mickey on a "three-hour tour" and says she was brought along to be used sexually by all of Mickey's friends. She brags about what she did on the boat to provoke Doc into rough sex, then tells him they still aren't back together.

Penny, an assistant district attorney with whom Doc is having a fling, gives him confidential files from which he learns that the LAPD pays the loan shark Adrian Prussia to kill people and that one of his victims was Bigfoot's former partner. Prussia is tied to the Golden Fang, and Doc learns that Charlock was involved with a deal, which is why he was killed. Doc visits Adrian, noticing his obsession with baseball bats, but is abducted and drugged by his partner, Puck. He manages to escape, killing both Puck and Adrian. Bigfoot appears and rescues him, driving him home, but Doc discovers he has been set up: Bigfoot has planted heroin in his car. Doc arranges for the drugs to be returned to the Golden Fang in exchange for Coy's freedom. Doc and Shasta drive off together, and he tells her this doesn't mean they are back together.

####The Inkwell####
Set in the summer of 1976, the film follows the adventures of Drew Tate (Larenz Tate), a 16-year-old from upstate New York, when he and his family spend two weeks with affluent relatives on Martha's Vineyard. Drew's parents, Kenny (Joe Morton) and Brenda (Suzzanne Douglass), worry that their son is emotionally disturbed. His favorite companion is a doll, in which he names Iago (after the character in William Shakespeare's "Othello"), with which he engages in animated conversations. They also fear that a fire he accidentally set in the family garage foreshadows a future as an arsonist.

On Martha's Vineyard, Drew is thrown into an affluent, party-loving black society that congregates on a beach known as the Inkwell. The visit is also the occasion of some bitter family strife. Drew's Aunt Frances (Vanessa Bell Calloway) and her husband, Spencer (Glynn Turman), are conservatives whose walls are plastered with pictures of Republican dignitaries such as Barry Goldwater and Ronald Reagan (who they keep saying will become president someday).  Kenny, a former Black Panther, and Spencer argue furiously about racial issues.

"The Inkwell" follows Drew's bumbling pursuit of the insufferably snooty Lauren (Jada Pinkett). He also befriends Heather (Adrienne-Joi Johnson), a young woman whose husband, Harold (Morris Chestnut), is a faithless louse. The movie comes to an end on the Fourth of July, when the Bicentennial fireworks end up symbolizing not just America's 200th birthday but Drew finally having sex with Heather.

####Irreplaceable You####
Abbie and Sam have been best friends since childhood and are engaged to be married. Their lives come crashing down when Abbie is given a terminal cancer diagnosis.

Faced with the prospect of an uncertain timeline, Abbie begins a search for a new love to take care of Sam. Along the way, Abbie makes unlikely friendships with three patients whose one thing in common is that they focus on living while they are dying.

Abbie dies at the end without having lived up to her potential, yet manages to come to terms with her situation and with those she is leaving behind.

####It Could Happen to You####
Police Officer Charlie Lang is a kind and generous man who loves his job and the Queens area of New York City where he lives. His wife Muriel works in a hairdressing salon and, unlike Charlie, is selfish, greedy and materialistic, constantly complaining about their situation in life. Waitress Yvonne Biasi, is bankrupt because her husband Eddie, whom she had not yet been able to afford to divorce, took her credit card and spent $12,000 without her permission.

Charlie meets Yvonne when she waits on him at the diner where she works. Since Charlie doesn't have enough money to pay the tip, he promises Yvonne to give her either double the tip or half of his prospective lottery winnings. He wins $4 million (in 21 annual payments) in the lottery the next day and keeps his promise, despite the protests of his wife. He and Yvonne become stars almost immediately.

Yvonne buys the diner she was working in. She sets up a table with Charlie's name at which people who cannot afford food can eat for free. In another development, Charlie becomes a hero for foiling an attempted robbery at a grocery store but gets wounded in the process, forcing him to take leave from the police force.

At a gathering on a chartered boat for the lottery winners and other members of high society, Muriel gets to know the newly rich Jack Gross. She flirts with him and later starts an affair. Meanwhile, Charlie and Yvonne spend a lot of time together, often giving gifts to passengers of the subway or to children, about which the media report. Muriel gets fed up with Charlie's constant donations and overall simplicity and throws him out of their apartment, asking for a divorce.

That same evening, Yvonne leaves her apartment after her husband shows up and threatens to stay until he gets $50,000 from her. Quite innocently, Charlie and Yvonne run into each other at the Plaza Hotel and, unintentionally, end up spending the night together.

When Muriel and Charlie divorce, Muriel wants all the money that Charlie won for herself. Charlie doesn't mind giving his share of the money but Muriel also wants the money he gave Yvonne, which causes Charlie to take the case to court. The jury decides in Muriel's favor. Yvonne, feeling guilty at costing Charlie all his money, storms out of court in tears and tries to keep away from Charlie. But the cop, by now hopelessly in love with the waitress, finds her at the diner and tells her that the money means nothing to him, and they declare their love for each other. While ruminating about their future at the diner, they are gracious enough to provide a hungry and poor customer some soup, which he eats at the special table. The poor customer is actually a disguised photographer, Angel Dupree, who is revealed to be the film's narrator; he takes photos of the couple and in the next day's newspapers publicly praises their willingness to share a meal and some cash with him, even in "their darkest hour". Just as Charlie and Yvonne are giving up and moving out of town, they begin receiving bags of mail from New Yorkers who read the story, sending encouraging letters containing "tips for the cop and the waitress" totaling about $600,000.

After Charlie and Muriel get divorced, Muriel's new husband Jack Gross flees the country with all her money, revealing himself to be a con man. She then moves in with her mother in The Bronx and goes back to her old manicure job. Yvonne's ex-husband Eddie ends up being a taxi driver. Charlie happily returns to the police force and Yvonne reclaims the diner. At the film's end, Charlie and Yvonne get married and begin their honeymoon by taking off from Central Park in a hot air balloon that bears the "New York Post" headline "Cop Weds Waitress", just before the closing credits roll.

####It's Complicated####
Jane, who owns a successful bakery in Santa Barbara, California, and Jake Adler, a successful attorney, have been divorced for 10 years. They had three children together, two girls and a boy, the youngest of whom has just left for college, leaving Jane feeling lonely. Jake has since married Agness, the much younger woman he cheated on Jane with.

Jane and Jake attend their son Luke's graduation from college in New York City, while Agness remains behind as her son Pedro is ill. The two have drinks and have a pleasant evening reminiscing together, which leads to them having sex. Jane instantly regrets what they've done, while Jake is thrilled and continues to pursue Jane when they return to Santa Barbara. They soon begin an affair.

While Agness has Jake scheduled for regular sessions at a fertility clinic, Jake is secretly taking medication to decrease his frequent urination, the side effects of which are decreased sperm count and dizziness. After one of his sessions, he has a lunchtime rendezvous with Jane at a hotel. Jake collapses in the hotel room and a doctor is called. The doctor speculates that the reason for Jake's distress may be the medication and says he should stop taking it. Jake and Jane's children know nothing of the affair, but Harley, who is engaged to their daughter Lauren, spots the pair and the doctor in the hotel and endures considerable stress while keeping their secret.

After Jane spends an evening cooking an elaborate meal at Jake's request and he doesn't appear due to Agness changing her plans, Jane ends the affair and begins seeing Adam, the architect hired to remodel her home who is still healing from a divorce of his own.

On the night of Luke's graduation party in Santa Barbara, Jane invites Adam to the party. She is stoned when he picks her up because she has taken a hit from a marijuana joint that Jake had given her earlier. Before going into the party, Adam smokes some of the joint with Jane. Once inside, they are laughing and happily high, Jake becomes jealous observing them, and after pressing Jane, smokes some with her also. Agness then observes Jake and Jane dancing together and senses they are having an affair.

After the party, Adam and Jane go to Jane's bakery, where they make pain au chocolat together and end the evening with a romantic kiss. Jake and Agness separate, although it is not clear who has left whom, and the kids, sympathetic to Jake's apparent heartbreak, ask him to stay with them at Jane's, where they enjoy a pleasant evening together as a family.

Jake goes into Jane's bedroom and disrobes in an attempt to seduce her, unaware that she has been speaking with Adam via webcam. He sees Jake and Jane is forced to admit to him and her children that while she and Jake did have an affair, it's over and she is not interested in getting back together with him. Adam later tells Jane he cannot continue seeing her because it will only lead to heartbreak.

Jane reconciles with her children, who admit they were troubled by what has happened between their parents because they're still recovering from the divorce, and amicably ends her affair with Jake for good.

On a rainy day, the construction crew arrives at Jane's house to commence the remodeling. Adam unexpectedly appears, telling her that breaking ground in the rain is good luck, and the two share a laugh as he asks her if she would be willing to make pain au chocolat again.

####It's Kind of a Funny Story####
Contemplating suicide, depressed Craig Gilner seeks help at a hospital. He tells a doctor named Dr. Mahmoud that he needs immediate help, so he is registered for five days at the hospital's psychiatric floor.

Craig feels a lot of pressure from his high school, Executive Pre-Professional, and is stressed over needing to turn in an application for a prestigious summer school. Also he feels he has shortcomings in the shadow of his best friend Aaron, who is great at everything, and his dad, who pressures him to do well. At first, Craig is uncertain if he made the right choice to stay, fearing his friends may find out where he is, especially Nia, his crush and Aaron's girlfriend.

Craig is introduced to Bobby, a patient who takes Craig under his wing. During a group discussion, Craig learns that Bobby is stressed about an upcoming interview, hoping to move to a group home. Bobby worries that the sweater he is wearing is all he has to wear for the interview, so Craig offers him one of his dad's dress shirts to wear. Noelle, another patient who is in for self-harm, is impressed by Craig's kindness, so leaves him a note to meet with her later on. They attend a painting session for patients together, where Craig paints a picture of an imaginary city map which he describes as "like my own brain".

Throughout his stay, Craig bonds with various patients, including Bobby and Noelle. Bobby tells him he is a father of a little girl, and is in the ward for attempting to kill himself six times. As Craig tries to help Bobby with his problems, Bobby, in turn, helps Craig gain the courage to ask out Noelle.

One night, Nia stops by to visit Craig, revealing that she and Aaron have broken up. Craig invites Nia to his room, where she tries to seduce him. However, they are interrupted by Craig's roommate Muqtada, a patient who has not left the room during his stay. As Nia runs out, Craig chases her, declaring he loves her, unaware that Noelle is standing behind him. Upset, she storms off, leaving behind a self-portrait she had planned to give him.

Craig eventually wins Noelle's forgiveness, and the pair briefly sneak out of the ward, onto the hospital roof. There, Noelle asks him out, and they kiss. Craig has an interview with the head physician, Dr. Minerva; he explains that he has realized that he wants to become an artist, and is thankful his problems aren't as bad as some of the others, who are in jail for example.

That night, Craig asks the staff for a pizza party, so the patients can say goodbye to him and Bobby—both are being discharged the following day. Craig calls Aaron, asking him to bring a record. When Aaron arrives, he tells him that he and Nia are working out their problems and they hug. At the party, Craig plays the record of Egyptian music, bringing Muqtada out of his room. He tells Bobby they should meet again after they are discharged, which he considers, and Bobby thanks him for changing his future outlook.

After Craig is discharged, he narrates a montage showing he has started dating Noelle, become better friends with Aaron and Nia, and begun pursuing his goal to become an artist. He has broken the news to his dad that he is not going to follow his path, which his dad understands. Craig affirms that, while his stay didn't cure his condition, it helped him a lot, and he can get through the rest of his life with the help of his family and friends.

####Jerry Maguire####
Jerry Maguire is a slick 35-year-old sports agent working for Sports Management International (SMI). After criticism from an injured player's son triggers a life-altering epiphany, he writes a mission statement about perceived dishonesty in the sports management business and his desire to work with fewer clients to produce a better, more caring personal relationship with them. In turn, SMI management sends Bob Sugar, Jerry's protégé, to fire him. This spurs Jerry and Sugar to each call all of Jerry's clients to try to convince them not to hire the services of the other. Jerry speaks to Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Rod Tidwell, one of his clients who is disgruntled with his contract. He needs a $10 million contract for his family to live on. Jerry informs him if he gets injured for the season, he will get no money from the Cardinals. Rod tests Jerry's resolve through a very long telephone conversation, during which Bob Sugar persuades the rest of Jerry's clients to stick with SMI.

Leaving the office, Jerry announces that he will start his own agency and asks if anyone will join him, to which only 26-year-old single mother Dorothy Boyd agrees. Frank "Cush" Cushman, a superstar quarterback prospect who expects to be the number one pick in the NFL Draft, initially also stays with Jerry after he makes a visit to the Cushman home. However, Sugar persuades Cushman and his father to sign with SMI over Jerry the night before the draft.

After an argument Jerry breaks up with his disgruntled fiancée Avery. He then turns to Dorothy, becoming closer to her young son, Ray, and starts a relationship with her. Dorothy contemplates moving to San Diego as she has a secure job offer there; however, she and Jerry get married. Jerry concentrates all his efforts on Rod, now his only client, who turns out to be very difficult to satisfy. Over the next several months, the two direct harsh criticism towards each other with Rod claiming that Jerry is not trying hard enough to get him a contract while Jerry claims that Rod is not proving himself worthy of the money for which he asks; one point of contention is that Rod is not very likable and comes across as aloof to the fans. Rod takes Jerry's advice to prove he is worthy of his contract. Rod is playing well and his team is winning. Jerry's marriage with Dorothy deteriorates and they separate.

During a December "Monday Night Football" game between the Cardinals and the Dallas Cowboys, Rod plays well but appears to receive a serious injury when catching a winning touchdown, securing a spot for the Cardinals in the playoffs. He recovers and dances for the wildly cheering crowd. Afterwards, Jerry and Rod embrace in front of other athletes and sports agents and show how their relationship has progressed from a strictly business one to a close personal one, which was one of the points Jerry made in his mission statement. He then flies back home to meet Dorothy, telling her that he loves her and wants her in his life, which she reciprocates. Rod appears on Roy Firestone's sports show. Unbeknownst to him, Jerry has secured him an $11.2 million contract with the Cardinals, allowing him to finish his pro football career in Arizona. The emotional Rod proceeds to thank everyone and extends warm gratitude to Jerry. Jerry speaks with several other pro athletes, some of whom have read his earlier mission statement and respect his work with Rod.

The film concludes with Ray throwing a baseball in the air which surprises Jerry; Jerry speaks of Ray's possible future sports industry career with Dorothy.

####Jersey Girl####
Jersey Girl is the story of Toby, a lower-class girl who's a preschool teacher from New Jersey who's tired of feeling like her life has no purpose and nothing interesting in it.  While out to dinner with her friends, she decides she wants to change her fate.  After talking to her friends about what the ideal man is like, she decides she's going to go find him. Toby travels to New York and walks into a Mercedes-Benz dealership in search of her 'Mr. Right'.  She feels immediately uncomfortable and leaves.  While trying to back out of the parking lot, she nearly hits a man (Sal) driving a brand new MB.  He drives around her and leaves the parking lot, but she's smitten.  She follows him down the road, and ultimately ends up causing an accident resulting in significant damage to Sal's car.  They exchange information, and she decides to actively pursue him.

####Jersey Girl####
Powerful New York City media publicist Ollie Trinké's wife, Gertrude, dies during childbirth due to an aneurysm. To avoid his grief, he buries himself in his work and ignores his new daughter, Gertie, while his father, Bart, whose own wife died many years earlier, takes a month off from work to take care of her, later returning to work to convince his son to live up to his responsibility as a single parent. Stressed by a crying baby, he insults his client, Will Smith, in front of assembled reporters. He is fired and moves back in with Bart in New Jersey. He eventually apologizes for ignoring Gertie and attributes his public outburst to his grief.

Blacklisted by all of New York City's public relations firms, Ollie has to work as a civil servant in the borough where he now lives. Seven years later, Gertie, now in elementary school, often coaxes him to rent films to watch. At the video store, they meet Maya, a graduate student and one of the clerks, whose uninhibited probing into Ollie's love life almost leads to them having sex. She soon enters their lives.

As part of his job in the borough, Ollie speaks to a group of outraged citizens to win over their approval for a major public works project that will temporarily close a street in the neighborhood. His successful and enjoyable interaction with them makes him realize how much he misses public relations work. He contacts Arthur, his one-time protégé, who sets up a promising interview.

The prospect of moving back to New York City creates tension among Ollie, Gertie, Bart, and Maya, especially when he says that his interview is on the same day as Gertie's school talent show. She angrily yells at him for putting himself before her again, going as far as to say that she hates him and that she wishes he had died instead of her mother. He claims he hates her too, and says she and her mother took his life away and he just wants it back, which shocks everyone. Gertie break downs crying, and runs to her room while a disappointed Bart quietly chastises Ollie for what he said. A few days later, they reconcile, apologizing for their hurtful words, and she accepts that they will be moving to New York City. While waiting to be interviewed, he has a chance encounter with Will Smith. Smith is unaware who Ollie is, but their  conversation about work and children persuades Ollie to skip the interview and leave.

Ollie rushes to make it to Gertie's "Sweeney Todd" performance at the last moment. The film ends with him, Gertie, Bart, Maya, and the rest celebrating at the bar. He and Maya hint at possible feelings for each other before Gertie interrupts them. He holds her in his arms and says that they are staying in New Jersey because he decided to not take the job. She asks why he did so if he loved it so much. He then says that he thought he did, but he loves his new life more because being a father to her was the only thing that he was ever really good at.

####Juwanna Mann####
Jamal Jeffries is a UBA (a fictionalized version of the NBA) basketball star whose undisciplined on-and-off-court antics have earned him a bad reputation in the basketball community. Jamal is dropped from his team, the Charlotte Beat and suspended indefinitely after he strips naked in protest of being removed from a game. His agent Lorne Daniels is unsuccessful at finding him a new team and decides to cut Jamal as a client. Consequently, Jamal's life goes downhill: his endorsements drop him, he ends up bankrupt due to his lavish spending, his belongings are repossessed, his mansion is foreclosed on, and his girlfriend Tina, who only put up with his antics for his money and fame, walks out on him.

Now broke, jobless, and homeless, Jamal goes to live with his no-nonsense Aunt Ruby, the only woman that is willing to put up with Jamal in spite of his outrageous antics. Lacking any other sort of skills, he decides to dress up as a woman named "Juwanna Mann" to play for the Charlotte Banshees of the WUBA (a fictionalized version of the WNBA). Aunt Ruby reluctantly agrees to help her nephew with his charade as does Lorne, who has no choice but to help out after Jamal reveals himself to be Juwanna. In a scene involving the team physical, Jamal has to disguise himself as the team mascot in order to avoid being found out by the team physician.

As Juwanna, Jamal quickly becomes a star on the court, and his overall attitude changes drastically as well. He learns to play with a team rather than just himself. While becoming successful with the Banshees, Jamal also finds himself in a problematic relationship with his teammate Michelle, whom he has romantic feelings for but cannot act on because Michelle knows him only as her confidante, Juwanna. His situation is further complicated as Michelle is involved in a romantic relationship with rapper Romeo (who ends up cheating on her) while Jamal (as Juwanna) is busy warding off the amorous advances of Romeo's hyper sidekick Puff Smokey Smoke.

Eventually, Jamal is given a chance to return to the men's league, but the hearing takes place at the same time as the Banshees' first playoff game. After much debate, Jamal decides to do the selfless thing and stick with the Banshees and help them win. Jamal's cover is blown at the end of the game when Jamal decides to dunk the winning basket and shatters the backboard. Amidst the excitement, Jamal loses his wig, revealing his true identity, and is immediately fired from the team. Consequently, the Banshees, devastated at the betrayal, begin to suffer on the court.

Seeing this, Jamal decides to try to make things right again, and enters the Banshees' locker room during another game's halftime to apologize for the lies and deception, and tell them that playing with them had changed his views and attitude about basketball, women, and life in general. His ex-teammates (especially Michelle) are initially still furious at him, but ultimately end up accepting Jamal's genuine apology, which also inspires the team to win the playoffs and eventually the WUBA championship.

Afterwards, Jamal is called in for a hearing with the UBA's commission board. Despite the genuine apology and assurance by himself and Lorne that he has changed for the better, the board is still unimpressed due to the "Juwanna Mann scandal" and it initially appears that Jamal's playing career is truly over. In the nick of time, his former WUBA teammates show up and successfully vouch for him to be brought back into the league, and Michelle gives him a championship ring and a kiss.

Jamal is reinstated into the UBA and returns to action with the Charlotte Beat, a better player and a better man.

####The Kissing Booth 3####
After a post-graduation road trip, Elle still hasn't decided between going to Berkeley or Harvard – although Noah is already looking for an off-campus apartment for them. When Noah and Lee's parents announce they're selling the beach house where they all spent their childhoods, Elle, Noah, Lee, and Lee's girlfriend, Rachel, spend the summer there to help prepare for the sale.

Lee shows Rachel his plans for them to see each other on holidays while going to colleges across the country from each other, while Elle is suddenly faced with a Berkeley deadline. Choosing to go to Harvard with Noah upsets Lee, so Elle promises to make it up to him by spending the summer doing their beach bucket list.

Noah's friend Chloe – whom Elle once thought Noah was having an affair with – arrives at the beach house while Marco – whom Elle kissed – gets a job in the area. During a day at the waterpark, Noah and Marco clash, prompting Noah to call Elle naive for not seeing Marco still has feelings for her. Tensions escalate when Elle struggles to divide her time between Lee and Noah. Simultaneously, Elle struggles with accepting her father's new girlfriend, Linda, also a friend of her late mom, fearing that she'll replace her.

Encouraged by Chloe, who is coping with her parents' divorce, to talk to Elle, Noah makes up with Elle. Marco shows up at the Fourth of July party where he again fights with Noah and punches him, but he refuses to retaliate. Marco admits to Elle he does still have feelings for her, but she rejects him. That night, Elle fights with her father over Linda, accusing him of only dating her for his own pride; in response, he angrily recounts the sacrifices he has made for her and her brother Brad and that she is not the only person who deserves to be loved.

Unaware that Noah saw her acceptance letter to Berkeley, Elle goes to find him at their spot. Worried she's only going to Harvard for him and that she will regret it, Noah breaks up with her. Heartbroken, Elle misses a bucket list with Lee to play "Dance Dance Revolution". Arguing, Lee tells her that he's never mattered to her compared to Noah, while she tells him to grow up and that all of her decisions this summer have been about trying to make everybody happy. Noah and Lee's mother tells Elle she should start thinking about what she wants to do and choose a college based on that. Chloe and Elle talk about Noah while saying goodbye, with Rachel eavesdropping on their conversation. Having seen the issues Elle and Noah's relationship had, Rachel breaks up with Lee, though she hopes they will someday reunite.

Acknowledging how happy her brother is around her, Elle eventually understands and accepts Linda, reconciling with her father. Marco apologizes to her and they say their farewells amicably before she makes up with Lee. She's realized that she's spent so long maintaining her relationships with Noah and Lee that she hasn't worked out what makes her happy. Elle applies to University of Southern California to study game design. Inspired by her, Noah and Lee's mom decides not to sell the beach house.

Six years later, Elle is developing her own game. She and Lee remain close friends, visiting the fated Kissing Booth at the Charity Fair and Carnival. Additionally, Lee and Rachel got back together and engaged after college. Sometime later, Elle sees Noah for (presumably) the first time since their breakup, where he reveals he has job offers at law firms in LA and New York. Noah suggests going on a motorcycle ride when he's back in town and Elle agrees. They part ways, but not before looking back at each other.

Elle and Noah ride down the coastline in California on their motorcycles, laughing and having fun.

####Kissing Jessica Stein####
28-year-old Jessica Stein is an attractive, Jewish, neurotic copy editor at a New York City newspaper. Her brother Dan has just gotten engaged, her best friend Joan is about to start a family, and her mother Judy is worried that Jessica will end up alone. Having endured several awful blind dates searching for Mr. Right, Jessica's interest is piqued by a personal ad that includes her favorite quote about relationships by Rilke. Jessica discovers it is in the "Women Seeking Women" section of the newspaper.

The ad was placed by Helen Cooper, who works at an art gallery. Dissatisfied with unfulfilling sex with men, Helen is looking to try something different and decides to experiment with dating women at the encouragement of her gay friends. Jessica replies to the ad, but she becomes apprehensive when she meets Helen, then apologizes and exits. Helen chases after her and persuades her to stay for one drink. The two discover they get along well and have a lot in common; they have dinner. Helen challenges Jessica's assumptions about what will make her happy and passionately kisses her goodnight.

Jessica and Helen start dating and awkwardly make out on Helen's sofa afterwards. The usually uptight Jessica gradually becomes more happy, confident, and carefree; this is noticed at her workplace and attracts interest from her boss, Josh. Jessica evasively says that she has not found a boyfriend. Helen, meanwhile, is falling in love with Jessica and grows frustrated that their relationship is not moving faster.

Judy invites Jessica and Helen to dinner at their holiday house, where she tries to set them each up with a computer executive and Josh, respectively. A thunderstorm causes Helen to sleep over in Jessica's old bed, where she and Jessica have sex for the first time. The two of them are happy together, but Jessica stays closeted about her new relationship, refusing to bring Helen as her date to Dan's wedding for fear of what others will think. Devastated, Helen says she cannot accept being treated as a shameful secret, and tearfully breaks off their relationship.

As Dan's wedding approaches, Jessica sinks into a deep depression and goes to see Judy, who tells her that she is a perfectionist who always quits things if they are not perfect, even if they make her happy.  Judy takes a deep breath and says that Jessica should not let this ruin her chances at happiness with Helen, who seems like "a lovely girl". Realizing her mother has accepted her sexuality, Jessica breaks down into tears of joy.

Jessica apologizes to Helen and invites her to be her date for Dan's wedding. Helen is a hit at the event and warmly welcomed into the family. Josh, meanwhile, has realized that he has been in love with Jessica for some time, and shares his feelings with her after the party. Jessica awkwardly but firmly explains that she is in a relationship with Helen and departs with her, leaving Josh speechless.

A few months later, Jessica and Helen are living together in Helen's apartment, where their sexual relationship begins to fade. Helen realizes that Jessica views her as a best friend and roommate more than a lover, and says that she needs more than Jessica is able to give. A fight ensues; Jessica implores Helen to accept their relationship as-is, but Helen remains steadfast to her need for a partner who satisfies her sexually, and the two split for good.

Several months later, Helen is happily living with another woman. Jessica is a more calm and content version of her former self, having taken the positive things she learned from her time with Helen and applied them to her own life. She puts up fliers in a bookstore seeking a new roommate, missing the flirtatious interest of the attractive store owner. She spots Josh among the bookshelves, whom she has not seen since she left the paper to focus on her painting. They have a friendly catching-up, and she tells him that Helen dumped her, which was tough, but ultimately made her a better person. She gives Josh a flyer with her email on it. Later, Jessica meets up with Helen—the two women now solidly friends—and joyfully tells her that she is going on a date with Josh.

####L.A. Story####
Harris K. Telemacher is a TV weatherman living in Los Angeles. He is in a dead-end relationship with his social-climbing girlfriend Trudi and feels his job requires him to be undignified and unintellectual, though he holds a Ph.D. in arts and humanities. He wants to find some meaning and magic in his life, having grown increasingly weary of what he sees as the rather shallow and superficial city of LA, from overly pretentious coffee orders to bizarre shooting etiquette rules on the freeway. Furthermore, he spends his time roller-skating through art galleries with his friend Ariel, offering eccentric art reviews to acquaintances, remixing Shakespeare a lot, and otherwise seeking to escape his ordinary life.

At a luncheon with a group of friends, he meets Sara, a journalist from London, with whom he immediately becomes infatuated.

Driving home that night, his car breaks down on the freeway. He notices that a freeway traffic condition sign seems to be displaying messages intended solely for him. It offers him cryptic advice on his love life throughout the movie.

He begins to fall for Sara, but she is conflicted because she has pledged to reconcile with her ex-husband, Roland. Feeling that a relationship with Sara is unlikely, Harris begins dating SanDeE*, a ditzy aspiring spokesmodel, whom he meets at a clothing store. After his first date with her, Harris discovers that Trudi has been cheating on him for three years with his agent. The discovery leads him to pursue his romantic interest in Sara. This is complicated by his new relationship with SanDeE* and by Sara's feeling of obligation to Roland.

By the conclusion, he has successfully wooed Sara – with some encouragement and advice from the sign, some helpful weather, and plenty of cameos from Patrick Stewart, Chevy Chase, Iman, Rick Moranis, Terry Jones, and many others, with musical encouragement from Enya.

####La La Land####
While stuck in Los Angeles traffic, Sebastian "Seb" Wilder, a jazz pianist, has a moment of road rage directed at aspiring actress Amelia "Mia" Dolan. After a hard day at work, Mia's subsequent audition goes awry when the casting director takes a phone call during an emotional scene. That night, her roommates take her to a lavish party in the Hollywood Hills, promising her that someone in the crowd could jump-start her career. After her car is towed, she walks home in disappointment.

During a gig at a restaurant, Seb slips into jazz improvisation, despite the owner's warning to only play traditional Christmas pieces. Mia overhears him playing as she passes by. Moved, she enters the restaurant and observes Seb being fired for his disobedience. As he storms out, Mia attempts to compliment him, but he brushes her off. Months later, she runs into Seb at a party where he plays in a 1980s pop cover band. After the gig, they walk to their cars and 'lament wasting a lovely night together' despite their clear chemistry.

Seb arrives at Mia's workplace, and she shows him around the Warner Bros. backlot, where she works as a barista, while explaining her passion for acting. He takes her to a jazz club, describing his passion for jazz and his desire to open his own club. Seb invites Mia to a screening of "Rebel Without a Cause" and she accepts, forgetting a date with her boyfriend Greg. Bored with the latter date, she goes to the theater and finds Seb as the film begins. When the screening is interrupted because the film print begins to burn due to a projector malfunction, Seb and Mia spend the rest of the evening together with a romantic visit to the Griffith Observatory.

After more failed auditions, Mia decides, with Seb's encouragement, to write a one-woman play. He begins to perform regularly at a jazz club, and they move in together. Seb's former bandmate Keith invites him to be the keyboardist in his new jazz fusion band, which will give him a steady income. Although dismayed by the band's pop style, Seb signs on after overhearing Mia trying to convince her mother that he is working on his career. The band finds success, but Mia knows the band’s music is not the type of music Seb wants to perform.

During the band's first tour, Seb and Mia have an argument; she accuses him of abandoning his dreams, while he claims that she liked him more when he was unsuccessful. Two weeks later, Seb misses Mia's play due to a photoshoot he had forgotten about. The play does not go as well as planned; few people attend, and Mia overhears dismissive comments about her performance. Unable to forgive him for missing her play and their previous argument, Mia breaks up with Seb and moves back to her hometown of Boulder City, Nevada.

Seb receives a phone call from a prominent casting director who attended Mia's play and invites her to audition for an upcoming film. He drives to Boulder City and persuades her to attend which she reluctantly does. During the audition, Mia is asked simply to tell a story. In response, she sings about how her aunt, a former stage actress who eventually died from alcoholism, inspired her to chase her dreams. Seb, confident the audition was a success, encourages her to devote herself to acting.

Five years later, Mia is a famous actress and married to another man, with whom she has a daughter. One night, the couple stumble upon a jazz bar. Recognizing the logo she had once designed, Mia realizes that Seb has opened his own jazz club. When he notices Mia in the crowd, Seb begins to play their love theme on the piano. A dream sequence unfolds in which the two imagine what might have been had their relationship thrived along with their careers. Seb and Mia acknowledge each other with a silent exchange of smiles before she leaves.

####Lady by Choice####
Cantankerous old lady Patsy Patterson is hauled before Judge Daly on charges of drunk and disorderly conduct. Also in court is fan dancer Alabam Lee, who is facing the judge on a morals charge. Alabam is given a suspended sentence of a year in prison while Patsy is condemned to an old ladies' home by the judge and lawyer Johnny Mill, who is committed to help her.

To help improve her image, Alabam's publicist Front O'Malley and manager Charlie Kendall concoct a plan for her to "adopt" a mother. They visit the old ladies' home with newspaper reporters and photographers ready to sensationalize the stunt. Alabam recognizes Patsy and selects her. Patsy is introduced as the daughter of a Confederate general.

Patsy is touched by Alabam's kind nature and begins to reform herself as well as Alabam. Patsy curtails her drinking and discovers that Kendall has been skimming most of Alabam's nightclub salary; Alabam fires Kendall as a result. Patsy wins $7,000 in a craps game and pretends that the money is from an inheritance. With Alabam out of work, the money is needed.

Patsy also encourages Alabam to take acting, dancing and elocution lessons. Patsy visits theatrical producer David Opper, for whom Patsy was a star many years ago. Opper reluctantly agrees to allow Alabam an audition, but she fails to impress him.

The wealthy Johnny meets Alabam and soon falls in love with her. Alabam tries to extract loan money from him. When Patsy realizes what Alabam is doing, the women quarrel and Patsy leaves Alabam.

Johnny asks Alabam to marry him but then informs her that his mother has promised to disown him and leave him a poor man if they marry. Alabam, who has fallen in love with Johnny, is relieved, because nobody will think that she is marrying him for his money. After Patsy and Johnny's mother visit Judge Daly asking him to stop the relationship, Daly calls Alabam into his office and threatens to reinstate her sentence, but she is unfazed. However, when he tells her that Johnny's career and social standing will be ruined by her past, she surrenders and returns to Kendall.

Patsy, who had also been initially opposed to the marriage, changes her mind when she sees that Alabam is truly in love. She reveals to Alabam that she was once in the same situation with Johnny's father before their relationship ended. Patsy has regretted the breakup ever since and does not want Alabam to repeat her mistake.

Alabam's fan dance at the nightclub is interrupted by the police, who take her to Judge Daly's office where she is confronted by Daly, Patsy and Johnny. Alabam embraces Johnny.

####The Lady Is Willing####
Elizabeth Madden (Marlene Dietrich) longs for motherhood but has no husband. Her desire appears to be fulfilled when she finds an abandoned baby, but she doesn't have a clue on how to raise it. She finds divorced pediatrician, Dr. Corey McBain (Fred MacMurray), to help her with the child.

####A Lady of Chance####
Dolly "Angel Face" Morgan is an attractive parolee out to fleece any wealthy man who takes an interest in her. She is recognized by two fellow con artists, Gwen and Brad.  Since they know she has not reported to her parole board, she reluctantly helps them set up a wealthy, married man; when her outraged "husband" breaks in and finds them in a compromising situation, the victim is glad to pay $10,000 to avoid any publicity. Later, however, the patsy realizes he has been taken and goes to the police. Brad has Gwen hide the money, and tells Dolly that their victim stopped payment on his check. Dolly steals the money and makes a quick getaway.

Soon after, Dolly meets a young man named Steve Crandall in Atlantic City for a 1928 cement convention. Believing that he is a wealthy plantation owner, she flirts with him. When he proposes they get married that very night, Dolly is shocked, but accepts. She is packing to leave with Steve when Brad shows up, demanding his share of the $10,000. Once again, Dolly uses her wits to escape.

Dolly and Steve take the train south to his home town of Winthrop, Alabama. There Dolly is rudely surprised to discover that Steve is far from rich, nor does he own a plantation (though he lives next door to one).  He is certain his invention, Enduro cement, will make his fortune, but his new wife is not so sure.  Dolly has grown fond of Steve, but cannot hide her disappointment from him. That evening, she has him take her to a train for New York.  The next morning, however, Steve returns to his room to find Dolly curled up in a chair. She is in love with him and has decided to reform, though she keeps her past a secret.

Brad and Gwen track her down, certain she has landed yet another rich sucker. They are surprised to find her living in modest circumstances. Dolly tells them that she has fallen for a poor man, but they do not believe her. To get rid of them, she gives them the $10,000. However, Steve receives a telegram informing him that a company has bought his cement formula for $100,000. Overjoyed, he rushes home and tells Dolly, his mother, and "cousins" Brad and Gwen.

Brad and Gwen blackmail Dolly into a scheme to part Steve from his new-found riches. Brad invites the couple to stay with him in New York City.  Just as Steve is about to sign Brad's contract, Dolly cannot take it anymore. She telephones the police, then tells Steve that the contract is nothing but a scam; she then confesses to Steve that she herself is a crook and that she only married him in order to fleece him. Steve is devastated.

The cops show up and take her away. Steve begs Dolly to come back to him, but she says that he would be better off without her.  Dolly is taken to prison.  Steve, however, manages to get the warden to parole her into his custody.

####The Lady Takes a Flyer####
Daredevil pilot Mike Dandridge enters into a business partnership with flight-school pal Al Reynolds and meets Maggie Colby, who is also a pilot.

The two flyers take cargo to Japan, where they become romantically involved. Al is best man at their wedding, then joins the Air Force.

Mike hires new pilot Nikki Taylor and might be having an affair with her during business trips while Maggie stays home with their new baby. Maggie flies a shipment herself and lets Mike care of their daughter. He and copilot Phil take a risk by bringing the baby along on a flight to London. Their plane has difficulty landing in fog, angering Maggie, whose own plane barely landed safely. However, Mike and Maggie are brought closer by the experience.

####The Landlord####
Elgar Enders, who lives off an allowance from his wealthy parents, buys an inner-city tenement in Park Slope, Brooklyn, which is undergoing gentrification, planning to evict the occupants and construct a luxury home for himself. However, once he ventures into the tenement, he grows fond of the low-income black residents. Enders decides to remain as the landlord, and help fix the building. He rebels against his WASP upbringing, and to his parents' dismay, romances two black women.

The first is Lanie, a mixed-race dancer at a local black club. Lanie has light skin and features due to a mother of Irish descent, and a father of African descent, and has experienced colorism. Their relationship is strained, as Elgar has an affair with one of his tenants, Fanny, and gets her pregnant. Her boyfriend Copee, a black activist with an identity crisis, is enraged when he finds out about the pregnancy, and tries to kill Elgar with an axe but ultimately stops.

The Enders family is shaken by their son's behavior, but reluctantly accepts him. Ultimately, Fanny gives the child up for adoption to start a new life. The story ends with Elgar’s taking custody of the child, mending his relationship with Lanie, and moving in with her.

####The Last American Virgin####
The plot closely follows the original Israeli film "Eskimo Limon" ("Lemon Popsicle"), and revolves around protagonist Gary, a typical high school student and pizza delivery boy, and his friends Rick—the slick talking ladies' man—and David--obese and bumbling, but popular and confident.

Most of the plot involves their numerous attempts to have sex, which are usually successful for Rick and David, but never for Gary. Early in the film, the three boys pick up three girls with the promise of cocaine (instead they use Sweet'n Low). They go over to Gary's house where he gets stuck with the homely and overweight Millie, a friend of the other two more attractive girls. But their party is interrupted when Gary's parents return home and pandemonium ensues.

A love triangle develops between Gary, Rick, and Karen, a beautiful new virginal student who Rick is determined to have sex with. Gary first sees her one night at an ice cream parlor, then in the school lunchroom, and asks David to find out where she lives. The next morning, in an attempt to get closer to her, he deflates her bike tires and invites her to ride to school with him. During and after the ride, he makes multiple attempts to woo her, much to her indifference. That evening, Gary attends a party at David's house and is devastated to find Karen in close company with Rick. He tries to entice her away from his friend but she treats him with blank disinterest. He becomes drunk and makes a fool of himself, falling about, then creates an embarrassing scene in front of his parents' dinner guests when he goes home.

One day Gary delivers pizza to Carmela, a glamorous Latina woman whose sailor boyfriend is never home, and she tells him she wants more than just pizza. Being too afraid to follow up on it, he goes away and convinces his friends to go along with him. She promptly copulates with Rick and David, but her boyfriend Paco returns home just as Gary is about to have his turn, prompting them to flee.

In order to keep Rick and Karen apart, Gary and David persuade Rick to join them in patronizing a tart-tongued streetwalker known to work a busy highway corner in the neighborhood. Gary's encounter with her is awkward and unpleasant, causing him to vomit.  The next day at school, all three boys realize they've contracted crab lice from the prostitute, and after trying unsuccessfully to drown them in a public swimming pool, they have to bring their problem to an amused middle-aged pharmacist.

Eventually, after Karen and Rick have sex, she becomes pregnant, and he callously dumps her.  Enraged Gary confronts Rick in the school library and a physical fight occurs, with Rick calling Gary jealous and Gary denouncing Rick as a lowlife.  Gary decides to help Karen pay for an abortion by selling most of his grandmother’s possessions and borrowing money from his boss. After the abortion, Gary and Karen spend the remainder of the weekend alone together in Gary's grandmother's house. While nursing her back to health, Gary tells Karen that he sincerely loves her. Karen appears to reciprocate and they both share a tender kiss. Karen invites Gary to her 18th birthday party the following week. Gary scrapes up a few more dollars and buys Karen an engraved gold locket for her birthday.

When Gary arrives at the party, his dreams of a lasting romance with Karen are shattered when he walks in on her making out with Rick again. Despite what Rick had put Karen through, and despite Gary's devotion and support, she's rejected Gary to reunite with the slick-talking ladies' man. Gary sadly leaves the party without saying a word to either of them, taking Karen's gift with him. Tears streaming down his face, Gary drives home alone, emotionally broken and defeated.

####The Last of Mrs. Cheyney####
Lord Francis Kelton (Frank Morgan) finds a beautiful woman in his stateroom. He is flustered, but his playboy friend, Lord Arthur Dilling (Robert Montgomery), is fascinated by her. He finds out from the ship's purser that she is American widow Fay Cheyney (Joan Crawford) on her way to stay in England. In London, she becomes the darling of English society, impressing everyone, including Arthur's wealthy aunt, the Duchess of Ebley (Jessie Ralph), who invites her to stay with her for the weekend. Arthur tries to impress Fay, but is rejected by her, even though she is becoming attracted to him.

After a charity auction at Fay's house, her "servants" look forward to a profitable future, but Charles (William Powell), her butler, suggests that she may be more fond of Arthur than she pretends. Fay and her servants are really confidence operators who are planning a jewel robbery, using Fay as their front. At the duchess' country home, she suggests to Fay that Arthur, who usually acts like a cad, is really in love with her, but Fay shrugs her words off. After Lord Kelton makes a bungled attempt to propose to her, Fay sneaks into the duchess' room and attempts to steal her pearl necklace, but is interrupted by a maid. Before she can resume, Arthur also interrupts and proposes. In London, the servants worry about Fay's lack of success, while in the country Fay learns how to get into the duchess' safe, but finds it difficult to think of robbing her because of her kindness.

Soon Charles arrives, but tells Fay that she can't get out of the plan now because of the others. Before he leaves, she decides to continue, even though Charles offers to face the others himself, and tells him that she will signal him when she has the duchess' pearls. Arthur sees Charles sneaking around the grounds and tries to have him stay the night, suspecting that he has seen Charles somewhere before, but Charles leaves. Later, when Fay steals the pearls, Arthur confronts her before she can throw them down to her friends, after remembering that he recognized Charles from an incident the previous year on the Riviera. He tries to blackmail her into spending the night with him, but she refuses, saying that she has never done that before. She then rings the alarm, rousing the entire household. He tries to take the blame, saying he acted like a cad, but she produces the pearls and tells them all the truth.


When Charles arrives, he summons the police, using Arthur's name, and they wait for Inspector Witherspoon (Lumsden Hare) of Scotland Yard's arrival the next morning. At breakfast, Arthur reveals that a letter that Lord Kelton wrote to Fay describing his friends may have to be used in court. Though at first amused, they are shocked when they learn that Kelton has written the unexpurgated truth about all of them. Kelton then suggests that they offer to pay Fay's passage back to America in exchange for not revealing the letter's contents. Fay, however, finds the offer too "dishonorable," until Kelton finally offers £10,000. She has destroyed the letter already, though, and will not take the money. In gratitude, Kelton offers to set Fay up with a modiste shop and the others offer to be her clients, but she again refuses. Though she wants Charles to stay, he declines, saying that he would have to remain honest if he stayed with her.

After offering to return Arthur's watch, which he stole five years before, he goes with Inspector Witherspoon, leaving Fay ignorant of the fact that he has turned himself in. When everyone has gone, Arthur says that he has arranged for them to be married by a neighboring bishop that morning, marking the last of Mrs. Cheyney and the first of Lady Dilling.

####The Last Word####
Evan Merck, an odd but gifted poet, makes his living writing suicide notes for the soon-to-be departed. At the funeral for a client, he meets Charlotte, the free-spirited sister of the deceased. When Charlotte asks how Evan knew her brother, he lies and says he was an old college friend. Evan's evasiveness only sparks Charlotte's curiosity and she romantically pursues him. Evans finds himself falling for her but cannot bring himself to reveal his true profession. Meanwhile, Evan must deal with Abel, a sarcastic new client and music composer whose career has been reduced to making jingles for phone messages.

####Latter Days####
Elder Aaron Davis, a young Mormon from Pocatello, Idaho, is sent to Los Angeles with three other missionaries to spread the faith. They move into an apartment next to openly gay party boy Christian Markelli and his roommate Julie, an aspiring singer. Christian and Julie work as waiters at Lila's, a trendy restaurant owned by retired actress Lila Montagne.

Christian makes a bet with his co-workers that he can seduce one of the Mormons, and  soon comes to believe that Aaron, the least experienced missionary, is a closeted homosexual. Aaron and Christian become acquainted through several encounters in the apartment complex. When Christian accidentally injures himself, Aaron helps him indoors and cleans his wound. Christian attempts to seduce Aaron, but the hesitant Mormon becomes upset by Christian's remark that sex "doesn't have to mean anything". Aaron accuses him of being shallow and walks out. Worried that Aaron is correct, Christian joins a charity, delivering meals to people with AIDS.  He gains new insights through a friendship with one of the beneficiaries. Aaron meets and befriends Lila, whose life partner has died, unaware of her connection to Christian.

Aaron's fellow missionary, Paul Ryder, has a cycling accident. Returning to his apartment, a distraught Aaron encounters Christian, who tries to comfort him with a hug. Both men are overwhelmed by their feelings and end up kissing, failing to notice the return of Aaron's roommates. Aaron is sent home in disgrace, leading Christian to confront Ryder, who is angry that Christian corrupted Aaron for no reason. Christian admits that he initially just wanted to win a bet, but says "it's not about that" anymore. Seeing Christian's distress, Ryder tells him that Aaron's flight has a five-hour layover in Salt Lake City.

Christian finds Aaron standing outside the airport terminal. Christian confesses his love, and despite his misgivings, Aaron admits his own feelings of love. With all flights canceled due to a snowstorm, Christian and Aaron spend an intimate night in a motel. When Christian awakes, he finds Aaron gone. Aaron's pocket watch, a family heirloom, has been left behind. Christian returns to Los Angeles. In Idaho, Aaron is excommunicated by the church elders, led by his father, who is the stake president. Aaron is rejected by his father and scolded by his mother, who tells him that he must pray for forgiveness. When Aaron suggests that he might be gay, his mother slaps him. Overwhelmed by despair, Aaron attempts suicide. His parents send him to a treatment facility in an attempt to change his sexual orientation via conversion therapy.

Christian locates Aaron's home address and phone number. Aaron's mother informs him that, "Thanks to you, my son took a razor to his wrists; thanks to you I have lost my son." Believing Aaron is dead, Christian spends the next few days thinking continually about Aaron. Christian travels to the Davis home in Idaho, where he tearfully returns Aaron's watch to his mother. After looking at the watch's inscription, which mentions charity, she tries to go after Christian, but he has already left.

Julie writes a song based on Christian's journal entry about the ordeal. Julie shows Christian her video for the song, and he is upset that Julie used his writings without his consent. Julie tells Christian that she hoped something good would come from it. In the treatment facility, Aaron hears Julie's song when her video airs on television. The video prompts Aaron to return to Los Angeles in search of Christian. When a stranger answers the door to Christian's apartment, Aaron is heartbroken, thinking that Christian has returned to his party boy ways and moved on. Having nowhere else to go, Aaron makes his way to Lila's restaurant and begins to recount his journey to her. Christian walks into the dining room, and is overjoyed to see Aaron alive. They reconcile and later celebrate Thanksgiving with Christian's co-workers. Lila tells everyone that, no matter what, they will always have, "a place at my table, and a place in my heart".

####The Law and the Lady####
Jane Hoskins (Garson) has worked most of her life as a lady's maid, and is currently employed by Lord Minden (Wilding) and his haughty wife Lady Sybil Minden. Lord Minden's younger twin brother, The Honourable Nigel Duxbury (Wilding) received only ten thousand pounds to his brother's five million because his brother was born five minutes before him and is therefore seen as being the elder sibling in the eyes of the law. Having squandered his money, Nigel sneaks into his brother's home and steals Lady Minden's earrings. Lady Minden accuses her maid Jane of the theft until Nigel steps forward and claims responsibility. Jane is angry at being wrongly accused of theft by her employer and decides to quit her job and make her way into high society.

Nigel is impressed by Jane's attitude and, after securing the earrings in return for never bothering his brother again, he offers to take Jane out for an evening of fine dining. Together they unintentionally con a wealthy gentleman into believing that Jane is a wealthy widow, the Lady Lovely, and that she collects donations for a fictional Egyptian charity called The Nile Fund. At the end of the night, one hundred pounds wealthier, Jane makes a business arrangement with Nigel that the two of them should work together as confidence tricksters.

Jane and Nigel travel to Monte Carlo, San Remo and Shanghai, where they cheat at gambling and are repeatedly asked by the authorities to leave the country. Eventually they make their way to San Francisco, where Nigel suggests they move into jewelry theft. Nigel gets himself a job as a butler named 'Hoskin's in the house of society queen Julia Wortin (Marjorie Main), and Jane befriends Mrs Wortin, and is invited to the Wortin home as a guest. The two partners plan to lift Julia's diamond necklace during their stay.

Julia throws a party in Jane's honour, and her exotic neighbor Juan (Lamas) begins to woo Jane. Jane becomes somewhat swept off her feet at Juan's attentions to her, causing Nigel to become jealous. On the first night of her stay, Jane locates Julia's safe and the necklace, but is touched by the lady's kindness towards her and has second thoughts about their plan, so she does not go through with it. The following day Jane receives a proposal from Juan and decides to accept. Jane and Nigel argue about Jane's decision, and although they share a kiss, they are reluctant to admit their feelings for one another, having long ago agreed that theirs was a strictly business relationship.

Jane decides to steal the necklace and give it to Nigel because she is worried about his future now that she will no longer be his partner in crime. Juan sees her give the necklace to Nigel and has already discovered that she is not really Lady Lovely. Juan and his servant apprehend Nigel, and Juan forces himself into Jane's room, where she activates the burglar alarm. Realising that Juan is not going to give her away, Jane reveals that she is a thief to Julia. Nigel turns up with a letter from one of Julia's other house guests which contains libelous information with which he and Jane can blackmail Julia and her guests if they decide to turn Jane and Nigel over to the police. The guests bid for ownership of the libelous letter, but Jane decides to give it to Juan for free for his kindness. Julia thinks the whole evening has been a bit of excitement and asks Jane and Nigel to stay on.

The following morning, after fighting over Jane the night before, Juan and Nigel inform Jane that they have decided Juan should be the one she ends up with. Jane reveals her true love for Nigel by yelling at him for letting her down and revealing that she has always loved him but that he was "too stupid to know it". Juan bows out gracefully and Jane and Nigel decide to go straight and pay back everyone they have stolen money from. Just as they are about to leave the local sheriff shows up with an inspector from Scotland Yard who reveals that Lord Minden died in a grouse shooting accident and that Nigel is now Lord Minden and receives the fortune. Nigel and Jane are now wealthy, however they are both under arrest for their initial deception of gaining the one hundred pounds for The Nile Fund. The film ends with them happily going off to do their short jail term before living happily ever after.

####Life in Flight####
Will Sargent (Wilson) is an up-and-coming New York City architect, managing an important project and in the midst of negotiations to join an important firm. Will's wife Catherine (Smart) is riding his coattails, managing their social success. Their seven-year-old son, Nate (Rosseljong) feels the effects of their success when his activities are often pushed to the sidelines in light of the important deal his father is negotiating.

Will meets Kate Voss (Collins), a small-space designer, through mutual friends. Will has seen her work at his son's school, and encourages her to drop off her portfolio for him to recommend for a job he is connected with. The two meet on several occasions at several social functions and to discuss Kate's work, all the while Will neglects to mention that he is married.

Kate calls Will's home number by mistake, and speaks with his wife who encourages her to drop off her work at their house. When Kate drops by, she is astonished to find out not only is it Will's house and not a work location, but that he is married.

####Life or Something Like It####
Lanie Kerrigan, a successful reporter for a Seattle television station, interviews a self-proclaimed prophet, Jack, to find out if he really can predict football scores. Instead, Prophet Jack not only predicts the football score, and that it will hail the next day, but also that Lanie will die in seven days, on the following Thursday. When his first two prophecies come true, Lanie panics and again meets with Jack to ask for another prophecy to test him again. Jack tells her that there will be a relatively significant earthquake in San Francisco at 9:06 am, which also happens. Now Lanie is convinced that she is going to die and is forced to reevaluate her life.

Lanie tries to find consolation in her famous baseball player boyfriend Cal Cooper and in her family, but there is little there. Her lifelong ambition of appearing on network television begins to look like a distant dream. In her desperation, she commits professional blunders but ends up finding support in an unlikely source: her archenemy, the cameraman Pete Scanlon, with whom she once had casual sex. He introduces her to a new approach to life: to live every moment of her life to the fullest and to do whatever she had always wanted to do. Lanie moves in with Pete for a day, and he introduces her to his son Tommy, who lives with his mother. They spend a whole day together with Tommy. That night Lanie and Pete sleep together for the second time. The next day Lanie receives an opportunity for a job she always dreamed of in New York. She asks Pete to come with her, but he declines, telling her that her appetite for success and fame will never end. Sadly, Lanie leaves for New York.

Pete meets Jack and tells him how wrong he is, as Lanie got the job which Jack foretold she would not get. However, Jack explains that he was right, as Lanie will never be able to get the job because she'll die before it begins. He also gives a prophecy of the death of a famous former baseball player in a plane crash. When Pete receives the news of the death of the baseball player, as foretold by Jack, he tries to call Lanie to warn her. He can't reach her, so he flies to New York.

Lanie - unconcerned with Jack's prophecy - interviews her idol, famous media personality Deborah Connors. Lanie realizes how petty the opening questions are and shares a heartfelt moment with Deborah live on air. The interview receives huge ratings. The network immediately offers her a position, but Lanie declines, realizing that she wants a life with Pete in Seattle.

As she leaves the studio, a police officer gets into a conflict with a man, who shoots a bullet into the air. Pete tries to warn Lanie from across the street, but she is shot in the crossfire. Lanie dies in the operating theatre but is revived. When she wakes up, Pete tells her that he has loved her since the first time he saw her, and Lanie tells him that she loves him too. Later, Pete, Lanie, and Tommy watch Cal's baseball game, while Lanie (in a voiceover) says that one part of her has died — the part that didn't know how to live a life.

####Life Partners####
Paige, an environmental lawyer, and Sasha, a struggling musician working as a receptionist, are long-time best friends in their late 20s. Paige supports her friend in her LBGTQ rallies and they regularly watch TV shows together.

After forcing themselves to try online dating one night, they go on separate dates. Sasha's ends in disaster, while Paige has a good date with Tim, a young and charming dermatologist.

Sasha continues to have a string of bad dates and failed relationships, while Paige and Tim continue dating.
When Paige has a big win at work, he whisks her off to a celebratory dinner, thwarting the surprise party Sasha had organised.

Paige and Tim spend more and more time together, she is impressed with his thoughtfulness and her mother helps her coax him into improving his style. Sasha begins to feel excluded as Paige begins to focus more on Tim and their relationship. Even on Sasha's 29th birthday, when she and Paige are meant to spend the whole evening celebrating in a motel, his call disrupts the evening.

Tim eventually surprises Paige with a proposal and she accepts.

Paige begins to feel that Sasha is childish, as she hates the girls Sasha dates and does not think much of her lack of direction. She voices this to Tim, but tries to be supportive of Sasha.

The woman Sasha is seeing is another lesbian friend's ex, when the group finds out she is excluded. Then the woman in question moves on, and Paige goes over with it.

At a barbecue that Paige and Tim host, they try to set up Sasha with a new lawyer in her firm, a woman they think of as kind and reliable. When Sasha is rude to her and blows her off, Paige and Sasha have a falling-out and stop speaking to one another.

Sasha gets fired from her job over her poor performance, specifically by failing to send a bid to China when told to, losing a job for the company. She later runs into Tim, who is also having a difficult time in his relationship with Paige, who is constantly trying to control him and refuses to apologize. While there, Tim also tells Sasha that it is fine for her to give up on her dream of being a musician if that is no longer what she is passionate about. The conversation leaves Sasha with a better impression of Tim.

After spending some time in a bridal shop with her domineering mother trying on wedding dresses, Paige realizes she learned to be too stubborn from her. She goes home and first finally admits to the neighbor that she's at fault for having run into his parked car days ago, then apologizes to Tim.

Some time later, as Paige is out driving her car, she sees Sasha at the stop light ahead. They begin to honk and shout at each other in pretend anger, a joke that they played on one another when they were friends, to show that all is forgiven.

####Life Under Water####
20 year old Kip moves out of his mother's home in the Hamptons, Long Island. His divorced mother, Jinx, is having an affair with Hank. Kip meets 2 young women on the beach—Amy-Beth and Amy-Joy. Amy-Joy insists that sea-monsters are real; Amy Beth has had a nervous breakdown. Both are selfishly preoccupied with their own lives.

####Little Athens####
"Little Athens" follows a whirlwind day in the hapless lives of small town youth caught in a dead-end post-high school void. The journeys of four groups of late teens/early twenty-somethings unfold through four different storylines, their separate trails converging at an explosive house party.

####A Little Bit of Heaven####
Marley Corbett is a quick-witted, carefree ad executive living in New Orleans, who embraces her easy going attitude, shuns any major responsibilities, and gains support and strength from a close circle of friends. She also enjoys casual dating, refusing to fall in love.

Marley's close friend Sarah notices that she looks drained. After an appointment, Marley is told by Dr. Julian Goldstein that she has terminal cancer. He is deeply impressed by the way she accepts the news with humour and dignity. While under anesthetic, God appears to Marley in heaven and gives her three wishes. She chooses to fly, to win a million dollars (not tax free), and a third that is later revealed.

Marley must now break the news to her friends and parents (who are divorced and haven't spoken in years). Her mother is persistent and overbearing, and instantly begins to smother Marley by visiting too often and making her meals to keep her strength up. Marley's father is the opposite; distant and reserved, and doesn't seem bothered with reconnecting with her in the time she has left.

While driving through town one morning, Marley and Sarah take part in a radio call game where the 97th caller wins a prize. They get through and Marley is told she's won flying lessons - her first wish granted. It is revealed that her other friend Renee is pregnant with her second child. This makes Marley question her life of never settling down.

As the weeks go by, Marley's health deteriorates and she visits her doctor Julian more and more. One night, they see each other at a band night at their local bar and spend the rest of the night on a date. They start to develop feelings for one another.

Marley tells her boss about the cancer and he asks her about her life insurance plans, as their company has a policy that anybody who has a life-threatening illness can cash out, gaining a million dollars ($500,000 dollars after tax) instantly - her second wish.

Marley's friend and neighbor Peter, noticing she is getting worse, hires a little person stripper, to meet with Marley at her apartment. Marley denies the stripper and explains her sickness to him, then decides to let him stay. As they hang out and talk about her cancer, he tells her that he has died before. He explains that dying was like floating and that he never wanted to leave. This helps Marley come to terms with her illness and death.

After another date, Marley and Julian sleep together and begin a relationship. However, the realization they won't have a future together causes her to flee quickly one morning before he wakes. That afternoon, they argue and Marley breaks it off. Envious of her friends who are all going through positive life changes, she becomes distant.

After a bike accident, Marley visits heaven again. God makes her realize that she needs to cherish what she has while she can and, for the first time, Marley admits to being in love. Later that day, she visits Julian to rekindle their relationship, apologizes to the friends she has pushed away and makes peace with her father.

At home over the following weeks, Marley can only lie in bed, and starts focusing on all of the things she is going to miss. She writes cards for future special occasions she won't be around for and letters to her loved ones, giving them to her mother to give out at the right times.

One morning, as Marley and Sarah sit in the park, Marley confesses that she is no longer afraid to die, while Sarah is terrified of life without her. Marley drifts off and Sarah is unable to wake her, so she calls an ambulance. Knowing it's almost time, Marley is visited by everyone in the hospital who stay at her side until the end (except for Renee, who is in labor).

Julian comes in time to say goodbye and, at that final moment, Marley realizes her third wish was to fall in love. The film ends with Marley's funeral, a colorful celebration of life with all of her friends and family.

####Little Black Book####
Stacy Holt is an associate producer on a talk show hosted by the domineering Kippie Kann. Stacy believes that "luck is when preparation meets opportunity". Her boyfriend Derek appears to be the fulfillment of all of her wishes, despite his reluctance to commit or discuss his past relationships.

When Stacy brings home tapes of the show to study, Derek recognizes a guest, his ex-girlfriend, a French model Lulu. When he refuses to answer Stacy's questions about their relationship, Stacy confides in her co-workers Barb and Ira about her misgivings. Inspired by Ira's pitch about using PalmPilots—the modern-day "little black book"—to investigate a lover's secrets, Barb and Ira encourage Stacy to use Derek's to learn more about him.

Under the guise of possibly inviting Lulu back to "The Kippie Kann Show", Stacy, Barb, and Ira question her about Derek. Lulu says she stole Derek away from his then-serious girlfriend Joyce, adding that their relationship was purely sexual. Back at her apartment, Stacy becomes increasingly insecure, listening to answering machine messages for Derek, looking through his box of mementos from former girlfriends and finally his PalmPilot. She finds pictures of two of his exes on it, Joyce and Rachel. Stacy makes a doctor's appointment to meet Rachel, whom she believes is a podiatrist.

Stacy discovers that Rachel is actually a gynecologist, and notices that Rachel has pictures of Derek's dog, Bob, in her office. Pretending it is research for the show, Stacy interviews Rachel, who reveals that she and Derek share custody of Bob and still see each other occasionally.

Stacy then meets Joyce, and the two strike up a friendship, although Stacy feels guilty for befriending Joyce under false pretenses. When Joyce receives a call from Derek, she asks Joyce about them. Joyce admits to Stacy that she still hopes that she and Derek will reunite.

Stacy panics and shows Joyce the interview with Lulu where she brags how Derek only went back to Joyce because Lulu became bored with him. Devastated, Joyce ends her friendship with Derek. Stacy feels guilty for making Joyce so unhappy and wonders if her investigation did anything to improve her own relationship with Derek.

At "The Kippie Kann Show", production prepares for the live show and Stacy is given lead responsibilities. She is thrust on stage, discovering that her investigations into Derek's past are, in fact, the subject matter. Barb orchestrated the episode and invited Lulu, Rachel, Joyce, and Derek to the show. All are confused and hurt by the lies, especially Joyce and Derek. Stacy apologizes to the women and to Derek, tearfully breaking up with him and admitting that she is not right for him. She encourages him to reconcile with Joyce before quitting on air. Stacy goes backstage to confront Barb, who tries to defend her actions and congratulate Stacy on the episode's success. Stacy rebuffs her (to the live audience's applause) and leaves.

Interviewing for a job under Diane Sawyer, Stacy reflects on her experiences with the interviewer, eventually landing the job. On her way out, she is thrilled to meet her idol, Carly Simon.

####Little Old New York####
Engineer and inventor Robert Fulton (Richard Greene) comes to New York City in 1807, where he meets tavern and inn keeper Pat O'Day (Alice Faye). O'Day comes to strongly believe in Fulton and his dream after he lodges at her establishment. He pursues the investment capital he needs to build his visionary steam-powered ship.

O'Day's longtime suitor, Charles Browne (Fred MacMurray), opens his own shipyard to assist the dapper engineer in building his steamboat after Fulton receives initial financial investment from Chancellor Robert L. Livingstone (Henry Stephenson). Additional funds are raised by O'Day' from her business acquaintances. Fulton eventually acquires the remaining funds needed to complete his revolutionary paddle steamer.

After a shipwright named Regan (Ward Bond) has a run-in with Fulton, Regan attempts to turn every local deck hand and sail-powered passenger boat operator against the engineer, exploiting their fear of losing their livelihoods to a steam-powered vessel. In the end, despite adversity, bad luck, and additional interference from Regan, Fulton is able to complete the steamboat, now named "Clermont", at Charles Brown's shipyard. She is successfully launched on her first voyage, silencing the local critics and doubters who had previously labeled the venture "Fulton's Folly".

####LOL####
Lola "Lol" Williams leads an ordinary life in Chicago, with her boyfriend Chad and best friends Emily, Janice, and Kyle. When they return to school, after the summer, Lol discovers that Chad has cheated on her, so they break up.

Lol and Kyle realize they have feelings for each other and pursue a relationship. This is difficult as Chad is his best friend, and Lol's nemesis, Ashley, is a flirt, especially with Kyle. His and Chad's band, No Shampoo, wants to compete in the battle of the bands, but Kyle's father does not support his passion for music and feels that it interferes with his schoolwork. Chad's jealousy towards Lol and Kyle's new relationship further complicates things.

Lol's mother, Anne, is a divorcée who frequently has sex with her ex-husband, Allen, until she discovers he has also been sleeping with another woman. She also begins to feel she and Lol are growing further apart. Lol throws a party and is caught by Anne who threatens to not allow her to go on her class trip to Paris. She is already grounded for the party.

Things finally start to change when Anne meets police officer James and they begin to date. He offers her advice on how to reconnect with Lol, which she takes up. After a presentation at school, Lol looks for Kyle in the bathroom and overhears two people having sex in the stall. She assumes it is Kyle and Ashley after seeing a purse similar to Ashley's peeking out from under the stall. It was actually Emily and Wen hooking up, but Emily does not tell Lol because she is embarrassed about being with him. Afterwards, Lol confronts Ashley, who does not deny it because she likes Kyle and wants to create a rift in Lol and Kyle's relationship.

A huge argument ensues between Kyle and Lol, where she accuses him of cheating, and they break up. When Kyle's father discovers he has lied about his grades and smoked pot, he grounds him and destroys his guitar. After the breakup, Lol is determined to make Kyle jealous, and tries to do so by making out with her childhood friend Jeremy. Meanwhile, she and her mother reconnect, and Anne allows her to go on the class trip to Paris.

While on the trip, Emily finally admits to Lol it was actually her and Wen in the bathroom, not Ashley and Kyle. After this realization, Lol and Kyle reconcile and spend the night together, having sex for the first time.

When they all return home, Chad and Kyle rekindle their friendship and he gives his blessing to Kyle and Lol. She sticks up for Ashley when Chad insults her, resulting in them becoming friends. Meanwhile, Anne finds Lol's diary, discovering that she has slept with Kyle and smoked pot. Confronting her, they have a huge falling-out, and Lol moves in with her father.

Eventually, Lol and Anne reconcile and she moves back in with her mother. Kyle's band wins the battle of the bands and his father finally begins to support his musical aspirations. Kyle and Lol stay together. Ashley and Chad begin to date and Emily and Wen are together as she is no longer embarrassed to be with him. The film ends with Anne and Lol laughing out loud while cuddling.

####Lonesome####
In New York City, Mary is a telephone operator who lives alone and is lonely. Jim is a factory worker who also lives alone, and feels disconnected from the world. During the Independence Day weekend, both Mary and Jim decide to visit Coney Island alone after finishing their Saturday half-day work shifts. The two board the same bus, mutually catching the other's attention, and again encounter each other once they arrive at the beach.

After the two spend some time together on the beach, Mary realizes she has lost the wedding ring she wears. Jim helps her locate it, but is disheartened, believing she is married. Mary reassures him after they find the ring that it is only her mother's wedding band. As night falls, Mary laments the fact that their day together is over, but Jim assures her it is not, and they continue to spend time together at the amusement park, visiting a fortune teller and riding amusement park rides. The two ride the Cyclone rollercoaster, but after one of the cars crashes, a melee ensues among the parkgoers, during which Mary and Jim are separated.

Only knowing each other's first name, and having only a small photo of each other, Jim and Mary are desperate to find each other. Jim attempts to locate Mary in the park, but a rainstorm causes further complications, sending the hundreds of park visitors scattering. A defeated Jim leaves Coney Island by train, as does Mary. Mary retreats to her apartment, where she begins to cry and beat her hands against the walls in despair. The noise catches the attention of Jim, who can hear it through the other wall—unbeknownst to either of them, the two are neighbors in their apartment building, but had never crossed paths prior. Jim opens the door to Mary's apartment and sees her standing before her bed. Shocked, but elated, the two embrace.

####Long Weekend####
Bart is down on his luck and has to take a job writing product descriptions for a medical-supply company. He moves into the garage of his best friend, Doug, and his wife, Rachel, and their two kids. He is broke and depressed; his novel failed to make any money, his fiancée broke up with him, and he’s ignoring his psychiatrist's phone calls.

He gets drunk and falls asleep in a movie theater. A girl named Vienna wakes him, telling him the movie is over. They start talking and hit it off, going on a date at a bar and then having sex in Vienna's motel room. Barry learns that her mother has cancer. His own mother died from it years earlier, and he was inspired to write his novel after she grew more concerned about his happiness in her last few months. After she died, Bart had a mental breakdown.

As Bart and Vienna spend more time together, she continues to be vague about her circumstances. She has no phone, and carries large amounts of cash. When Bart asks her to tell him more about herself, she either changes the subject or gives vague answers, such as she works for the government.

Bart's old apartment is in the process of being sold and the new tenants are moving in, but they go there to talk in private. She finally tells Bart that she is from the future, working for a secret government branch that has discovered time travel in 2052. She says she has gone back in time to buy stocks that will earn enough to pay for her mom’s cancer treatment.

Bart tells Doug the next day, who advises him to get Vienna help, just as Doug helped Bart after his own mental breakdown. Bart and Vienna become even more attached, growing to trust each other enough to open a safe deposit box together where Vienna keeps her stocks.

They spend a night camping in the desert, and Bart wakes up to Vienna down the road, crying. She later tells him that staying in the past too long changes one's brain chemistry, and that she must soon return. As they have an at-home pasta dinner date later on, she starts moaning in pain and finds it hard to breathe. Bart gets scared and heeds Doug's advice by taking her to the hospital for assessment the next day. As she's about to walk to the doctor's office, Bart has a nosebleed and faints.

He wakes up in a hospital bed with bandages on his head and Doug by his side, who explains to him that he had a brain tumor, but the doctors were able to remove it. Bart asks Doug where Vienna is, and Doug tells him that because of how the tumor affected his brain, he imagined Vienna—she was never real. Acknowledging this, Bart breaks down in tears, and Doug tries to comfort him.

Having accepted that Vienna was an illusion, Bart finally moves out of his old apartment. However, when he goes to withdraw cash from an ATM, he discovers that someone has deposited over $89,000 into his account. He then remembers the safe deposit box he and Vienna opened together. When he checks it, he finds photos that he and Vienna took in a photobooth, proving that she was real. On the back of the photos is a message from her, along with a little hint about the future of his favorite sports team. He smiles and laughs ecstatically.

####The Lords of Flatbush####
Set in 1958, the coming of age story follows four lower middle-class Brooklyn teenagers known as The Lords of Flatbush. The Lords chase girls, steal cars, shoot pool, get into street fights, and hang out at a local malt shop. Chico attempts to win over hard-to-get, waspy Jane while throwing over easier-to-get Annie. Stanley seemingly impregnates his girlfriend Frannie, who pressures him to marry her. Stanley eventually agrees to marry even after finding out before the wedding that Frannie was never pregnant. Butchey Weinstein is highly intelligent but hides his brains behind a clownish front in order to fit in with the gang. Wimpy Murgalo is a loyal follower in awe of Stanley, eventually becoming best man at his wedding. All four boys seem to discover maturity and responsibility at the end of the film as we witness them bonding during the wedding in their dress suits, eschewing their typical leather jackets.

####Lost in Translation####
Bob Harris is a fading American movie star who arrives in Tokyo to appear in lucrative advertisements for Suntory whisky. He stays at the upscale Park Hyatt Tokyo and is miserable due to problems within his 25-year marriage and a midlife crisis. Charlotte, another American staying at the hotel, is a young Yale graduate in philosophy who is accompanying her husband John while he works as a celebrity photographer. Charlotte is feeling similarly disenchanted as she questions her marriage and is anxious about her future. They both struggle with additional bouts of jet lag and culture shock in Tokyo and pass the time loitering around the hotel.

Charlotte is repelled by a vacuous Hollywood actress named Kelly, who is also at the hotel promoting a film. She bumps into Charlotte and John, gushing over photography sessions she has previously done with him. Bob and Charlotte frequently cross paths in the hotel and eventually introduce themselves to each other in the hotel bar.

After several encounters, when John is on assignment outside Tokyo, Charlotte invites Bob into the city to meet some local friends. They bond over an evening in Tokyo, where they experience the city nightlife together. In the days that follow, Bob and Charlotte spend more time together, and their friendship strengthens. One night, while neither can sleep, the two share an intimate conversation about Charlotte's personal uncertainties and their married lives.

Bob spends the night with a jazz singer from the hotel bar on the penultimate night of his stay and Charlotte hears the woman singing in Bob's room the next morning, leading to tension between Bob and Charlotte during lunch together later that day. The pair re-encounter each other in the evening and Bob reveals that he will be leaving Tokyo the following day.

Bob and Charlotte reconcile and express how they will miss each other, making a final visit to the hotel bar. The next morning, when Bob is leaving the hotel, he and Charlotte share sincere but unsatisfactory goodbyes. On Bob's taxi ride to the airport, he sees Charlotte on a crowded street, stops the car, and walks to her. He then embraces her and whispers something in her ear. The two share a kiss and say goodbye before Bob departs.

####A Lot like Love####
"Constructed as a series of chapters that take place at a turning point in each character's life, the story moves from seven years in the past, to three years, to two, and finally arrives in the present day."

Emily Friehl and Oliver Martin's first encounter is on a flight from Los Angeles to New York City. Impulsive, she jumps him in the restroom. Later she's aloof, but they cross paths again in the city and they spend a bit of time walking around, taking random shots with his camera.

Oliver hopes of becoming an Internet entrepreneur and, certain of his future success, gives Emily his mother's phone number. He suggests she call him in six years to see if his prediction came true.

Three years later, facing the prospect of spending New Year's Eve alone as she's just been dumped, Emily finds Oliver's number as she's rifling through her little address book. She calls him, and they meet for dinner. Emily takes him to a big New Years party with her friends. Seeing her most recent ex, she gets really drunk and leaves with Oliver. She passes out, but she wakes in the morning; he's already left for San Francisco.

Thus starts a series of reunions with the passing of time, as each drifts in and out of relationships with others. Oliver and his business partner Jeeter develop their on-line diaper service, and Emily becomes a successful photographer.

Each time they meet they take turns, where one appears to be settled and content while the other is struggling to make headway in both life and career. Eventually, they come to the realization that each is exactly the person the other one needs for fulfillment.

A few years later, Emily gets engaged, but she still has feelings for Oliver. The night before she's meant to move in with her fiancé, after developing an old roll of film of when she met Oliver, she breaks it off. Then, her sister later sees Oliver at the drapers, getting fitted for a tux, and thinks he's getting married.

Upset, Emily goes to track down Oliver, who's at a wedding at his parents' house. He asks her what is she doing here, at his sister's wedding. Seeing Emily's tears, Oliver wraps his arms around her, saying it was always you.

####Love Actually####
A voiceover opens the film, commenting that whenever he gets gloomy about the state of the world, he thinks of the arrivals gate at Heathrow Airport, about the pure uncomplicated love of friends and families welcoming their loved ones. He also points out that the messages from the 9/11 victims were messages of love and not hate. The story then switches between the interconnecting "love stories" of many people:

####Love Affair####
Ex-football star and Sports Announcer, Mike Gambril and singer Terry McKay, each of whom is engaged to marry someone else, meet on a flight to Sydney. During some mechanical issues, both Mike and Terry comfort each other as the plane makes an emergency descent. The plane barely makes an emergency landing on a remote atoll and passengers must wait until various ships make their way to rescue the passengers.

As Mike gets himself accustomed to the boat he selected, a Russian cruise boat, Terry arrives aboard as well as her ship was being redirected elsewhere. As the passengers get more and more drunk with the Russian crew, Mike and Terry almost have an encounter but it is curtailed by party revelers. She reconsiders and runs to her room.

The next day, with an hangover, Terry says she doesn't want to make a "mess" of her life with an affair and tries to push Mike off the topic. Instead, Mike invites Terry to visit his elderly aunt, Ginny(Hepburn) on the isle of Moorea during a routine stopover. During the visit, Terry sees a different side of Mike as they have lunch with his Aunt and play music together. The romantic setting kindles their romance and instead of taking a more convenient jet back to their respective destinations they continue their romance on the boat for a few more days. Finally, on the way home on the return flight to New York, they agree to reunite at the top of the Empire State Building in three months' time to test their convictions and current relationships. Terry breaks up with her fiancé Ken Allen(Brosnan), as does Mike with his, Lynn Weaver(Capshaw).

Terry finds work as a singer, mostly in advertisements. Mike, to the chagrin of his agent, is having an existential crisis about his TV career and ruminates about returning to his hobby painting. He quits his job in TV and works as the head coach at a small college. One of his primary pieces is a portrait of Terry in prayer from their idyllic day on the island, wearing his aunt's hand-made shawl.

Months later, on the way to the rendezvous, Terry is struck down by a car while crossing a street jaywalking. Gravely injured, she is rushed to the hospital. Mike, waiting for her at the observation deck at the top of the building, is unaware of the accident. After many hours, in the rain, he finally concedes at midnight that she has rejected him.

Now unable to walk as a paraplegic, Terry refuses to contact Mike and let him see her in her paralyzed condition. Instead, she finds a job as a music teacher in a small elementary school. Six months after the accident, she sees Mike with his former fiancée at a holiday concert featuring Ray Charles, which Terry is attending with her former boyfriend. Mike does not notice her condition because she is seated. Each can only manage a terse hello, with Mike looking irritated.

Christmas Eve arrives and Mike makes a surprise visit, claiming to have come across her address while looking up another name in a telephone directory. Although he steers the conversation to make her explain her actions, Terry merely dodges the subject, never leaving the couch on which she rests. Mike mentions his aunt, now deceased, had left the shawl for her in her will. His Aunt had taken a liking to Terry and secretly hoped the two would marry and straighten out Mike's life. Mike mentions, that he,"Made a painting of you with that shawl." Mike had left it in disgust at the hotel previously and the hotel manager had the restaurant display it.

About to leave her life for good, Mike remarks that the painting was recently given to a woman recently who very much admired it. He is about to point out that the woman was in a wheelchair when he suddenly pauses realizing that Terry isn't moving in her couch and making no effort to get up to say goodbye. Mike walks into Terry's bedroom, opens the door and sees his painting hanging on the wall. He now knows why she did not keep their appointment.

####Love Hurts####
Paul Weaver (Jeff Daniels) is accustomed to playing around on his wife Nancy (Cynthia Sikes) from his baseball-playing days. When divorce papers are filed against him, Paul decides to travel to Pennsylvania and attend his sister's wedding. But Nancy and his two children are both there, making the situation uncomfortable for everyone.

####Love in the Time of Money####
New York serves as a backdrop for a cast of characters in search of love, lust or lucre including a woman who makes awkward moves on the man renovating her SoHo loft, an embezzler, a sleazy artist and a phone psychic.

####Love Jones####
In Chicago, Darius Lovehall is a poet who is giving a reading at the Sanctuary, an upscale nightclub presenting jazz and poetry to a bohemian clientele. Shortly before his set, he meets Nina Mosley, a gifted photographer. They exchange small talk, and Darius makes his interest clear when he retitles his love poem "A Blues For Nina". A mutual attraction is sparked between them. Darius runs into Nina for the second time at the record store and asked her out for  drinks. Nina told him it was bad timing, but Darius was not taking no for an answer. He talks his friend Sheila into letting him copy Nina's address from the check she wrote, goes to another record store to get the CD she was looking for and then shows up at her place unexpectedly to deliver the CD and ask her out for a second time. They have sex on the first date, but neither Darius or Nina are sure what to do next. Nina has just gotten out of a relationship and is unsure if she still cares for her old boyfriend; Darius, meanwhile, is unsure about whether or not to admit that he really cares for Nina.

Just as Darius dares to begin believing that Nina could be "the one," Nina's ex-beau Marvin invites her to join him in New York to try to work things out. After a night with Darius, Nina tells him that she is going to New York because of unfinished business. More as a test of Darius' feelings than as an earnest attempt to resolve things with Marvin, Nina leaves, only to return to find that Darius has been fooling around with another woman. At this, Nina steps out with Darius' self-satisfied buddy Hollywood, sparking a blowup between the men and a reconciliation between the lovers, which does not last, requiring yet another separation and subsequent attempt to set things right.

####Love with the Proper Stranger####
The film tells the story of first generation Italian, Angie Rossini (Natalie Wood), a salesclerk at Macy's department store who finds herself pregnant after a one-night stand with part-time musician Rocky Papasano (Steve McQueen). When she confronts him at mass audition at Carnegie Hall he claims to not remember her. Her only ask is that Rocky fund and find the name of a doctor that is willing to perform abortion. Meanwhile, Angie is being pressured by her working-class older brothers, played by Herschel Bernardi and Harvey Lembeck, to marry the unappealing but successful restaurateur Anthony (Tom Bosley).

Rocky and Angie scrape up enough money for the abortion but are confronted by Angie's brothers who chase them in the neighborhood. Rocky is able to sneak into a friend's warehouse where the two discuss life, their mistakes and future prospects in life.  When he and Angie meet the crude abortion care provider in a dubious part of the New York City Meatpacking District (who turns out not to be a doctor but a back-room abortionist), Rocky refuses to let her go through with the dangerous procedure much to the relief of Angie, who rests from the trauma in Rocky's old girlfriend's apartment. The maturity he shows in doing this brings them closer and Angie grows to respect him. After meeting her brothers, Rocky (who was given the requisite black eye by the oldest brother) decides to "take his medicine" by agreeing to marry her. Angie, who has more romantic aspirations in life, is insulted by the insinuation of marry by duty and refuses. Angie wants romance, with "bells and banjos".

As an act of independence, Angie moves out of her family home much to the chagrin of her immigrant mother. She begins dating the restauranteur, Anthony, who offers to marry her (and claim the baby as his own.) By acting aloof, she confuses and attracts Rocky back to Macy's where he inquires about her condition. When Rocky, once again discusses marriage, she invites to him to "just come over for dinner" at her apartment instead. The dinner is structured as a "date night" with a well-prepared meal and cocktails. Rocky is impressed with her ability as a homemaker, but even more impressed by her well-dressed and sexy appearance. After 2 stiff drinks, he makes crude advances on her and is rejected yet again. Angie says she does not want to make the same mistake again citing that she is expecting "bells and banjos" in her relationships and that after all the time spent together she actually "likes him." They quarrel and the sobbing Angie throws him out of the apartment and slams the door. The next day, Rocky waits for her outside the crowded Macy's with the sign, "Better Wed than Dead", ringing bells and playing a banjo, and wins her heart.

####Love, Simon####
Simon Spier is a closeted gay teenager living in a suburb of Atlanta, Georgia. He has a close and loving family—parents Emily and Jack, and sister Nora—as well as three best friends: Nick and Leah, whom he has known most of his life, and newcomer Abby.

Leah informs Simon about an online confession of a closeted gay student at their high school, known only by the pseudonym "Blue". Simon begins communicating with Blue via email using the pseudonym "Jacques". The two confide personal details and form a connection. Their emails are accidentally discovered by another student, Martin, who is infatuated with Abby. After learning his secret, Martin threatens to make Simon's emails public unless he helps Martin win over Abby. Simon begins trying to figure out which of his classmates is actually Blue.

At a Halloween party, Simon suspects his classmate Bram might be Blue and attempts to connect with him, but later walks in on Bram making out with a female student. Nick confides in Simon that he has feelings for Abby. Simon lies to Nick, telling him that Abby has a boyfriend in college. Leah walks an inebriated Simon home, where she speaks vaguely about how she feels that she is fated to love one person very intensely; Simon believes she is referring to Nick.

Simon meets up with Abby and Martin at a Waffle House after he convinces them to practice lines together for an upcoming school musical. Simon bonds with their server, a classmate named Lyle, and now suspects that Lyle may be Blue. That night, Simon comes out to Abby and is relieved when she reacts positively.

At a school football game, Simon crosses paths with Lyle; before he can summon the courage to ask if Lyle is Blue, he finds out Lyle is actually interested in Abby. An upset Simon tells a pestering Martin to either "go big or go home" when courting Abby. Martin interrupts the national anthem and publicly declares his feelings for Abby. When Abby admits she does not share those feelings, Martin is humiliated and becomes the subject of ridicule.

On Christmas Eve, to distract people from his own humiliation, Martin outs Simon by posting his emails on the school's gossip site. Simon's sister, Nora, tries to comfort Simon but he shuts her out and does not return his friends' texts and calls. Simon comes out to his parents on Christmas morning, to their surprise and acceptance.

After the holidays, Nick and Abby, now a couple, confront Simon about the lies he told and learn that he tried to keep them apart due to Martin's blackmail. Leah confesses to Simon that she was in love with him, not Nick, and is upset he came out to Abby first. After his friends break off from him, Simon receives a final email from Blue, who is upset that their emails have been leaked. Blue tells Simon that they should stop speaking and deletes his email account.

In the cafeteria, Simon and an openly gay student, Ethan, are mocked by classmates. Ethan and Simon bond over the difficulties they have faced coming out. After his mother reaches out and comforts him, Simon apologizes to Leah and tells her he is in love with Blue. Simon posts a confession on the gossip site apologizing to his friends, seeking out Blue and asking him to meet at the school carnival.

After the school musical, Leah, Nick and Abby make amends with Simon and invite him to go to the carnival with them. Waiting for Blue at the carnival, Simon rides the Ferris wheel, drawing a large crowd of peers. When Simon runs out of tickets, Martin buys him one more ride. Just before the ride begins, Bram sits next to Simon, revealing himself as Blue after all; the kiss Simon saw with the female student was a drunken misunderstanding. They ride the Ferris wheel together and kiss as their friends cheer them on.

Simon's life gradually returns to normal and he begins a relationship with Bram. While picking up his friends and boyfriend for school, Simon suggests that they forgo their usual morning routine and instead go "on a little adventure".

####Lovers and Other Strangers####
Mike Vecchio and Susan Henderson are engaged to be married. Mike wants to call off the wedding, arguing that it would be hypocritical for them to get married when they have already been living together for one year and a half. Mike relents on calling off the wedding after learning that Susan went to her first Halloween party dressed as a bride.

Mike's brother Richie and his wife Joan have grown "incompatible" and are considering divorce. Mike's Italian-American parents, Frank and Bea, are relentlessly trying to dissuade Richie and Joan from divorcing.

####Lucas####
Lucas Blye is an intelligent 14-year-old high school student in suburban Chicago. He becomes acquainted with Maggie, an attractive older girl who has just moved to town. After meeting Lucas on one of his entomological quests, Maggie befriends him, spending time with him during the remainder of the summer until school begins.

Lucas, who finds himself a frequent victim of bullying and teasing, has a protector of sorts in Cappie Roew, an older student and football player. Cappie was once one of Lucas' tormentors, until Cappie contracted hepatitis and Lucas, for reasons no one ever knew, brought him his homework every day, ensuring that Cappie did not fail and have to repeat a year of school.

Even though Lucas deems it beneath her, Maggie becomes a cheerleader for the football team in order to get closer to Cappie, on whom she has a growing crush. Angered and offended by Maggie's inattention towards him, Lucas begins to chastise Maggie, continuing to dismiss her cheerleading as "superficial" and incorrectly assuming that she will be his date to an upcoming school dance. Maggie complains to Lucas that she's interested in activities other than being with him.

On the night of the dance, Cappie is dumped by his girlfriend Alise over his attraction to Maggie, which she has been noticing. A depressed Cappie finds comfort with Maggie at her house—much to the chagrin of Lucas, who has arrived, in tuxedo, to pick her up for the dance. Even though Cappie and Maggie invite him out for pizza, he rebukes them and rides off on his bike. Rina, one of Lucas' friends, encounters Lucas as he sits alone, watching the dance from across a lake. Although she has feelings for Lucas, she puts them aside to console him about he and Maggie being "from two different worlds". On the way home, Lucas happens to ride by the pizza parlor and is crushed to see Maggie and Cappie kissing on their date.

In a last-ditch attempt to impress Maggie and gain the respect he so desperately craves, the diminutive Lucas joins the football team. In the shower after practice, Lucas endures yet another prank from his constant tormentors Bruno and Spike. At the end of the day, Lucas flees in embarrassment to his favorite hiding place (beneath a railroad overpass near the school) and Maggie chases him to talk with him. After Maggie tells him that she wants him to be her friend, Lucas tries to kiss her. Maggie recoils, and a heartbroken Lucas screams at her to leave.

The next day at the football game, Lucas removes his helmet during a play and is seriously injured after being tackled and is rushed to the hospital. Maggie, Cappie, and Rina attempt to contact Lucas' parents, though Maggie discovers that she does not know Lucas as well as she thought she did. Correcting Maggie's misguided impression that Lucas lives in the large luxurious house where she has seen him several times, Rina shows them that Lucas lives in a dilapidated trailer in a junkyard with his alcoholic father and only works as a gardener at the large house.

Meanwhile, Lucas' schoolmates hold vigil for him in the hospital as he recuperates. Maggie visits Lucas' room that evening and sternly tells him never to play football again. Lucas promises, and the two reconcile, picking up their friendship where they left off. Lucas and Maggie speculate as to where they will be when the locusts return seventeen years later; both express the hope that they will still be in touch when the locusts return again.

Lucas returns to school a short time after his recovery, with schoolmates all casting surprised looks at him as he walks through the hall. Upon reaching his locker, he finds Bruno and Spike there waiting for him, but he tries to ignore them as he opens his locker. Inside is a varsity letter jacket, with Lucas's name and number on the back. As Lucas takes it out in shock, Bruno starts the "slow clap", and the entire hallway starts applauding. Maggie, Cappie, Cash, and Rina are there as well, leading the applause as Lucas raises his arms triumphantly and smiles.

####Lucky Partners####
Portrait painter and caricaturist David Grant, newly arrived in Greenwich Village, wishes Jean Newton good luck on a whim as they pass on the sidewalk. When Jean delivers books, a woman makes her the gift of an expensive dress. She is quarreling with her son-in-law, who had given the dress to his wife. Believing David to be lucky, Jean asks him to partner with her on a ticket for the Irish Sweepstakes.  He agrees only on condition that, if their horse wins, she accompany him on a platonic trip to see the sights before she settles down to married life in Poughkeepsie, New York. She and her fiancé, Frederick "Freddie" Harper, are dubious about the proposition, but he talks them into it.

When their $2.50 ticket is one of the few that draw a horse, its value shoots up. Freddie wants to sell it, but the other two decide to try for the jackpot. Their horse does not even place, but Freddie informs Jean afterward that he sold their half for $6000. Outraged at his duplicity, she offers half the money to David. He only accepts provided she keep their bargain. Once again, he gets her to go against her better judgment.

They drive to Niagara Falls in a new car David has bought in Jean's name. Freddie, suspicious of David's intentions, follows them there. Even though he finds they have separate (though adjoining) hotel rooms and have registered as brother and sister, Freddie is not appeased.

Meanwhile, when David and Jean go dancing, they attract the attention of the Sylvesters, an older couple celebrating their 50th anniversary. They persuade the couple to accompany them to their favorite spot, making David pick Jean up and carry her across a footbridge. On the other side, David kisses Jean.

Later, realizing things have gone far beyond what he had intended, David checks out and drives off in the car. He is stopped by a policeman and, when he admits the car is not his, taken to jail. Jean becomes furious when she realizes he has gone. Then, she and Freddie are also picked up by the police.

They are brought before a judge, and David is forced to admit under oath that he is really Paul Knight Somerset, a celebrated painter who disappeared three years ago after being imprisoned for drawing what was then deemed indecent illustrations for a book (now considered a classic). The court reporters seize upon the story, and the courtroom is packed with the elite of society. Both Jean and David act as their own counsels. By questioning himself on the witness stand, David reveals he is genuinely in love with Jean, and the two are reconciled.

####Mad Dog and Glory####
Wayne Dobie is a shy Chicago Police Department crime scene photographer who has spent years on the job without ever drawing his gun; his colleagues jokingly call him "Mad Dog". Wayne saves the life of mob boss Frank Milo during a hold-up in a convenience store. Milo offers Wayne a gift in return: for one week, he will have the "personal services" of Glory, a young woman who works as a bartender at Milo's club.

Wayne learns that Glory is trying to pay off a personal debt and wants nothing to do with Milo after the debt is paid off. After an awkward start, they fall in love. Wayne wants her to move into his apartment, but Milo has no intention of letting Glory go, saying that he owns her. When Wayne doesn't comply, Milo sends one of his thugs, Harold, to take Glory away by force, but Wayne's partner Mike is waiting and beats Harold in a fight. Milo tells Wayne that he has to pay $40,000 to give Glory her freedom.

Glory rejects Wayne's attempts to buy her freedom, as she feels it represents her accepting being owned. As she walks down the street, Milo shows up. Wayne did his best to get the money, but falls short by $12,500. With Harold and an arriving Mike looking on, Wayne stands up to Milo himself, and after impulsively drawing his gun, ends up brawling with Milo in the street. Glory intervenes, suspecting that Milo might kill Wayne. Seeing that the two are in love with each other, Milo concedes and makes peace with Wayne and lets Glory go with no strings attached.

####Made for Each Other####
John Mason (James Stewart) is a young attorney in New York City and a milquetoast. He has been doing his job well, and he has a chance of being made a partner in his law firm, especially if he marries Eunice (Ruth Weston), the daughter of his employer, Judge Doolittle. However, John meets Jane (Carole Lombard) during a business trip, and they fall in love and marry immediately. Eunice eventually marries another lawyer in the firm, Carter (Donald Briggs). John's impertinent mother (Lucile Watson) is disappointed with his choice, and an important trial forces him to cancel the honeymoon. He wins the case, but by that time Judge Doolittle has chosen John's kowtowing yes-man coworker Carter as the new partner.

Jane encourages John to demand a raise and a promotion, but with finances tightened by the Depression, Doolittle requires that all employees accept pay cuts. After Jane has a baby, John becomes discouraged by his unpaid bills, and his mother, who lives with them in their small apartment, is destroying their marriage.

On New Year's Eve, 1938–39, the baby is rushed to the hospital with pneumonia. The baby will die within hours unless a serum is delivered by plane from Salt Lake City. Doolittle agrees to provide funding to deliver the serum, but with a storm raging, and with a wife and children to consider, the pilot refuses to fly. John pleads over the telephone, and the pilot's unmarried friend takes the job. The new pilot almost crashes in the mountains, and the plane's engine catches fire a short distance from New York. The pilot is also injured and knocked unconscious after jumping from the plane and parachuting to safety, but he crawls to a nearby farm house after he comes to. The farmer sees the box containing the serum and telephones the hospital, and the baby is saved. A few months later, John is made partner at the law firm and his son speaks his first words.

####Made for Each Other####
On Christmas Eve, Guido “Gig” Panimba (Joseph Bologna) and Pandora “Panda” Gold (Renee Taylor) each morosely wander the streets of Manhattan and later join an emergency group therapy meeting designed to help the participants break self-destructive patterns. Each person lists his or her neuroses, ranging from bed-wetting to paranoia.

When it is Panda's turn, we learn she is there on her 4th emergency session. She declares herself a failure as an actress, singer, dancer and woman, and launches into a long description of her life and many disastrous love affairs. We learn about Panda's past, in which her mother repeatedly assures her that she will be famous while her father repeatedly abandons them for affair after affair. To escape her unhappy home life, young Panda immerses herself in Hollywood movies, often imitating movie stars such as Rita Hayworth. By the time she is nineteen, Panda tries to attract her father's attention by displeasing him, and to that end moves in with a married, Chinese boyfriend. When her father learns of this, he dies of a heart attack, and at the funeral, his many lovers hysterically blame Panda for his demise. Her next boyfriend ends up leaving her for another man. She works as a hostess of a television quiz show and a nightclub performer, but she gives up both professions to go live in England with her latest boyfriend, whom she caught sleeping with two other women. Panda then enthusiastically announces her "comeback" at an upcoming cabaret revue and invites everyone in the session to come and see her.

Gig, a newcomer to therapy, claims that he has no problems, and when the other participants goad him to be honest, he gets up to leave. Within minutes, however, he returns and announces that he caused his last girlfriend to attempt suicide. Gig recounts his past. He has little privacy from his parents and sisters and is made to feel guilty about his sexual urges. After his mother convinces him that love requires purity, and lust must be violently purged, Gig begins to treat women cruelly and eventually tries to join the seminary, but is soon caught in a tryst with a maid. Gig briefly joins the military, where he embraces an enemy soldier in joy upon learning that the man is not dead. Returning to America, Gig fails to prosper in his father's barbershop and instead goes back to college, where his African studies major horrifies his parents. He then embarks on relationship after relationship, leaving each woman in heartbreak until the latest, tried to kill herself.

At the meeting, some of the women berate him but Panda is sympathetic. After the session, Gig and Panda get to talking and end up having sex in his car. While having sex, Panda accidentally blurts out that she loves him, after the encounter, Gig responds coldly and dismisses her. After some encouragement from the doctor who ran the session, Panda calls Gig in an attempt to scold him for his treatment of her, but she ends up inviting him to dinner. There, he enjoys the food but then readies to leave, promising to return later to have sex after the party he's going to. As he walks out the door, Panda screams after him that she will no longer accept being treated poorly. After she collapses on her bed, he returns silently and asks what they should do next.

Gig reluctantly agrees to Panda's suggestion that they move in together, hoping to break his pattern of abusiveness. Gig finds he is able to really open up to Panda and he playfully helps Panda to overcome her inability to achieve orgasm. On New Year's Eve, Panda's mother appears, reminding Panda that she is late for her night club comeback. Ignoring her mother's disapproval of Gig, Panda rushes to prepare for her act and insists that Gig join them. He is appalled, however, by her act, a painfully amateurish song-and-dance number in which she asks the audience to create a new identity for her. Later, when she asks his opinion, he admits he did not understand it, prompting her mother to lash out at him. Panda asks her to leave, and later at a café asks Gig for more constructive criticism. Upon learning that she has worked on the show for five years, Gig explodes that the act is awful and states that she embarrassed herself and him. Panda runs out and Gig follows, but on the street they fight and ultimately go their separate ways. Panda goes home alone and realizes her act is actually awful and that Gig was right. Meanwhile, Gig tries to sleep with another woman only to find himself impotent with her.

The next day, Panda shows up at Gig's apartment and they make up. Learning that he is going to visit his parents, she insists on joining him, and on the way urges him to introduce her as his girl friend. Gig's large family seems welcoming to Panda until they ask how she met Gig and she responds with a long story about their encounter group and the necessity of escaping the psychological wounds inflicted by their parents. Soon, Gig's mother is screaming at her to leave and Gig shouts back that she must apologize to Panda. She concludes that she will not attend their wedding because Panda is Jewish and her views are so different from their own. Gig's father chastises her for overreacting and declares that they're just having fun, and clearly Gig would never marry Panda. To prove Panda is not Gig's type, he brings out a photo of Gig's first love, a slim Italian teenager. This visibly upsets Gig who decides to get up and leave with Panda, while his family screams after them.

In the car, Gig starts to pick apart his parents, and their comments about Panda. However, Panda tells him that some of their comments about her (particularly her physical features) were accurate. This causes Gig to fly into a rage, because she's agreeing with his parents after all the nasty things they said, so he begins to berate her as well, eventually breaking up with her and forcing her to get out of the car. Panda walks off, but Gig immediately follows her. Eventually, after a lot of arguing, the two break down crying and Gig admits he really loves Panda and the two decide to get engaged.

####Madea's Big Happy Family####
When Madea’s niece, Shirley, visits Dr. Evans with Aunt Bam, she discovers her cancer has gotten worse and she may only have a few weeks to live. She invites her children to dinner to tell them all at once. Cora Simmons and her father Leroy Brown are also at the hospital where a colonoscopy on Mr. Brown shows a growth that needs to be surgically removed. Meanwhile, Madea drives through Snax, a restaurant, because its manager, a nagging, shrill-voiced young woman named Sabrina, delayed taking her order until after breakfast was over for the day.

Shirley's children, Byron, on probation for selling drugs and in a relationship with selfish, gold-digging Renee with a son from a previous relationship; Tammy, who has martial issues with her husband, Harold, and their undisciplined children; and Kimberley, filled with anger issues and mistreats her husband Calvin, her son C.J. and her family, arrive for dinner. Their visit is besieged by arguing. Byron's ex and mother of his child, Sabrina, arrives, lying excessively. She uses her son's child support money and supplies for herself, and tries to goad Byron back into illegal activities in order to get more money for herself.

Bam goes to Madea's house, seeking help for Shirley; Madea agrees. Byron and Renee sneak into Shirley's house and are arrested. Shirley goes to Kimberley to help her bail Bryon out; despite Kimberley's refusal, Calvin volunteers to help. The next day, Calvin bails out Byron, the arrest cost Byron his job. During the day, Madea gathers Shirley's children to go over to their mother's house for another dinner. At Harold's garage, she instills some manners into their kids.

That night, they have dinner as a family and Sabrina leaves the baby with Byron and Kimberley arrives late and an argument ensues, with Tammy reveals Kimberley got pregnant at 13 and had Shirley raising the child for her. Kimberley leaves early. Byron is the child in question; angry and heartbroken that his family kept this a secret from him, he leaves with Shirley chasing after him. An argument between Harold and Tammy concludes with him banging the table and demanding that Tammy starts respecting him as earlier advised by Madea  and she apologizes. Afterward, Byron is humiliated by Sabrina on "Maury", and he returns to the drug trade, Calvin leaves Kimberley and takes C.J. with him, Harold and Tammy's relationship and their kids seem to be improving. With the drama and arguing, Shirley is unable to tell the family about her cancer.

Over time, Shirley's condition worsens increasingly, and she is rushed to the hospital, where she reveals to her children (sans an absent Kimberly) that she has cancer, tells her family that she loves them and later dies. Kimberley arrives and is told by Calvin that Shirley has died.

Days later, a funeral service is held and Shirley is buried. At the wake, Madea gives everyone their due: she confronts Byron that he should start caring for his son by getting a stable job, and warns him if he continues down the wrong path, he will end up dead or back in prison. Sabrina and Byron need to start working together on raising their child. Byron breaks up with Renee. Kimberly was raped by her paternal uncle when she was 12, resulting in her having a baby at 13, explaining her bitterness and anger towards her family. Kimberly has to forgive in order to find peace and to treat her husband and son better. Kimberley apologizes to Calvin, agreeing to get help to fix their marriage, and they reconcile.

Madea, Mr. Brown and Cora appear on "Maury" to find out if Mr. Brown is Cora's father. Madea insists so, but, following an argument, it turns out he isn't. Madea departs in hysterics with Joe at home, watching it unfold on TV.

####Madea's Family Reunion####
After Madea (Tyler Perry) violates the terms of the house arrest she was subjected to in the previous film in order to get Joe (Tyler Perry) some medicine, Judge Mablean Ephriam orders her to take in a rebellious foster child named Nikki (Keke Palmer) in order to avoid jail as Brian (Tyler Perry) states that Madea will make a good foster mother. At first, Madea and Nikki clash due to the latter's bad attitude and disrespect, stemming from her poor life up to this point, including an absent father, a mother in jail, and a slew of uncaring foster homes. However, Madea tells her that the only way to really overcome her poor life is to work hard and strive to be better than the people who wronged her. Nikki takes Madea's words to heart and gradually reforms her behavior.

Lisa Breaux (Rochelle Aytes), one of Madea's grand-nieces, is engaged to Carlos Armstrong (Blair Underwood), an abusive and controlling investment banker. While Lisa desperately wants to get out of the engagement, her conniving gold-digging mother Victoria (Lynn Whitfield) urges her to go through with the wedding, coordinated by Milay (Jenifer Lewis), telling Lisa to avoid doing things that make Carlos angry. Vanessa (Lisa Arrindell Anderson), Lisa's older sister and the other of Madea's grand-nieces, who lives with her, has two children fathered by two different men, neither of whom are involved in their children's lives; Victoria regularly degrades Vanessa for this, even referring to her grandchildren as "bastards". With some effort, Vanessa is successfully wooed by poetry-spouting bus driver Frankie Henderson (Boris Kodjoe), who is the single father of a young son, and has a passion for painting. As much as Vanessa likes Frankie, she is emotionally closed-off and has a difficult time trusting him.

Lisa eventually leaves Carlos, with the intention of calling off the wedding, temporarily moving in with Madea. Carlos, eager to move forward with the wedding, dispatches Victoria to bring Lisa back to him. Victoria confronts Carlos about the abuse, suggesting that insecurity about his masculinity is causing him to act out and that he needs counseling. Carlos counters this by suggesting that Victoria is controlling every aspect of her daughter's life because she wants to make up for all of the shortcomings in her own. It is then revealed that Victoria, with Carlos's assistance, has stolen from Lisa's trust fund over the years, leaving virtually no money left, and is now encouraging Lisa to marry Carlos in order to keep up her livelihood. Carlos makes it clear to Victoria that he will not bail her out unless the wedding goes forward.

Victoria goes to Madea's house to fetch Lisa, only to end up in a passionate argument with Vanessa, who has become aware of Carlos's abuse and is eager to protect her sister. During the confrontation, Vanessa reveals a shocking secret to her younger sister: Victoria allowed her second husband, Lisa's father, to rape Vanessa in order to keep him in the marriage. Vanessa states that the sexual abuse occurred on a regular basis after that, which as a result, left her closed-off emotionally and unable to trust the men in her life, including Frankie. Even more shockingly, Victoria makes no attempt to deny Vanessa's accusations. Instead, she rationalizes her actions, telling her daughters that they would have been destitute if Lisa's father had left, and that after going through a previous divorce with Vanessa's father and working two jobs to support the family afterwards, she was tired of struggling and felt that she deserved better. She also reveals that her own mother, a prostitute and drug addict, regularly traded her for "ten dollars and a fix", essentially almost mirroring what she'd done with Vanessa and Lisa's father. Victoria then states that she would not allow Vanessa to ruin her happiness, and that she would not apologize for the choices she'd made. She then turns on a horrified Lisa, demanding that Lisa begin taking care of her financially as she made sure that Lisa had the best of everything while she was growing up. Vanessa then derides Victoria for constantly controlling her and Lisa as her punching bag and puppet, respectively, and how it has left her a mess; she vows not to let the pain and suffering her mother has subjected her to over the years hold her back any longer, and to break their family's tragic cycle by embracing the true love that she has found with Frankie and being a better mother to her own children. Victoria then leaves and later lies to Lisa, telling her that Carlos has agreed to counseling.

At the family reunion held at the home of 96-year-old Aunt Ruby (Georgia Allen), Vanessa and Victoria get into another verbal confrontation, which eventually turns into a physical fight after Victoria insults Vanessa regarding her relationship with Frankie. Then, Victoria screams at the top of her lungs, in front of the entire reunion, that she never loved Vanessa. Punches are thrown by both women. The fight is broken up when Aunt Ruby, Madea's daughter-in-law Myrtle (Cicely Tyson), and Ruby's daughter Aunt May (Maya Angelou) gather the family members to an old slave shack where the family's ancestors grew up. Ruby express disappointment at how the family has turned out. Myrtle gives a long speech, persuading them to act lovingly towards each other and themselves.

Lisa eventually returns to Carlos and resumes her wedding plans. On the day of Lisa's wedding, Madea tells her that it is time for her to stand up to Carlos and fight back. When he arrives at Madea's house, he asks that he and Lisa be alone. Madea asks Carlos if he'd like something to eat, and tells Lisa to give him some grits on the stove, noting to her that they're "hot". When Madea leaves the house with Nikki and Joe, Carlos brutally slaps Lisa in the face. In retaliation, she throws the pot of hot grits in his face, scalding him badly, then beats him with a cast iron frying pan as Madea listens outside with laughter. Lisa takes off her engagement ring and throws it at an injured Carlos before leaving.

At the church, Lisa announces to the family members and other guests that Carlos had been beating her every day since they first got engaged and that the wedding is off. Victoria sarcastically states to Lisa that she feels sorry for her, but Madea states that everyone here feels sorry for Victoria and tells her to find her own life instead of continuing to live through Lisa. As Milay expresses disappointment that her work will now be wasted, Frankie then asks Vanessa to marry him. She says yes and they're married at the church instead.

At the reception, Victoria tells Vanessa that she and Frankie are a beautiful couple and they hug, signifying the first steps in a possible reconciliation.

####Maid in Manhattan####
Marisa Ventura, a single mother raising her 10-year-old son Ty, works as a maid at the Beresford Hotel in the heart of Manhattan. When not in school, Ty spends time with Marisa's fellow hotel workers, who think she can be promoted to management.

While Marisa and her co-worker Stephanie are cleaning the room of socialite Caroline Lane, Stephanie convinces Marisa to try on a Dolce & Gabbana coat. Lane had previously asked for it to be returned to the store, and Stephanie argues that it "technically" does not belong to anyone at the moment. Elsewhere in the hotel, Ty befriends hotel guest and senatorial candidate Christopher "Chris" Marshall, whom Ty learns has an interest in Richard Nixon, the subject of his school presentation. Ty wants to go with Chris to walk his dog and the pair go to Caroline's room to ask Marisa for permission. Chris meets Marisa, who is wearing the designer coat, and is instantly smitten with her. He assumes that she is Caroline. The trio spend some time together at the park. Though Marisa and Chris are attracted to each other, Marisa is terrified that management will find out about the ruse and makes it a point to avoid Chris afterwards.

Chris asks the hotel's head butler, Lionel Bloch, to invite "Caroline Lane" to lunch, but is confused when the real Caroline shows up instead of Marisa. Marisa was present when she received the invitation and even offered Caroline advice on what to wear for their "lunch à deux". When the real Caroline shows up, Chris asks his assistant Jerry Siegal to find "the other Caroline Lane", promising that he will attend an important dinner and wishes her to go with him. Jerry asks Lionel to find her. Lionel, who has figured out that Marisa is the woman Chris has been looking for, tells her to go to the dinner and end the affair swiftly if she wants a future in hotel management. Stephanie and the hotel staff assist her in preparing for the evening by styling her hair and loaning her an expensive dress and spectacular necklace.

Marisa is unable to end the affair, and she spends the night in Chris' hotel room. The next morning, Marisa is spotted by the real Caroline and her friend leaving Chris' room. Caroline blurts out the truth to the hotel management and Marisa is fired in front of Chris in Lane's hotel suite. Both Marisa and Chris spend time apart with him still thinking about her. Marisa is also hounded by the media and her disapproving mother Veronica.

Some time later, Marisa secures another job as a maid at another hotel. Chris is giving a news conference at the same hotel. Ty attends it and asks Chris whether people should be forgiven if they make mistakes, referencing former President of the United States Richard Nixon. Ty leads him to the staff room where Marisa is having her break. Chris and Marisa are reunited, and the film ends with images of publications showing that Chris has been elected, he and Marisa are still together after a year, and Marisa and her maid friends have been promoted to management.

####Make Way for a Lady####
June Drew (Anne Shirley) is the daughter of widowed Christopher Drew (Herbert Marshall), who suffers in silence as his daughter tries to "match" him with every eligible woman in sight.

####Malèna####
On June 10, 1940, in the small Sicilian town of Castelcuto, a teenage boy named Renato experiences three major events: Italy enters World War II; he receives a new bike; and he first sees the beautiful and sensual Malèna, who is the most desired young woman in town. Her husband is in the armed forces fighting the British in Africa, and she lives alone. Because of her beauty and solitary status, she is an object of lust for all the town's men and of hatred for its women. She keeps an eye on her infirm old father who lives alone, until he gets an anonymous note slandering her,  which causes him to reject her.

Renato becomes obsessed with Malèna, spying on her in her house and stalking her when she leaves it. To fuel his erotic fantasies, he steals some of her underwear from her clothes line. When his parents find it in his bedroom, they become upset and try to break his fixation.

Malèna gets the news that her husband is killed, adding grief to her isolation. Rumours grow around her, which she unwisely fuels by allowing an unmarried air force officer to visit her after dark. When she is denounced and put on trial, the officer sends testimony that he was nothing more than an occasional friend. The betrayal hurts, but Malèna says nothing to condemn him. After her acquittal, her advocate pays her a visit and rapes her.

Renato decides to be Malèna's protector, asking God and his saints to watch over her and performing little acts of vengeance against her detractors. He does not realise that his views of her are little better than those of the townspeople, and has no idea how Malèna herself feels.

Meanwhile, the war reaches Sicily and the town is bombed by the Allies, killing her father. Now penniless and universally scorned, with nobody willing to give her work, she sinks into prostitution. The townsfolk are happy to see her as a whore rather than a dangerous widow. When Nazi forces occupy the town and Renato encounters his idol with two German soldiers, he faints. His mother decides it is demonic possession, taking him to a priest for exorcism, but his more practical father takes the lad to the town brothel. There he fantasises that the prostitute initiating him is Malèna.

The Germans leave, and American troops enter the town, welcomed by ecstatic cheers. The women storm the hotel and drag out Malèna, ripping off her clothes, beating her and cutting off her hair. To escape further persecution, she leaves the hostile town. A few days later, her husband Nino, who has survived as a prisoner of war but lost an arm, comes back looking for her. His house has been taken over by displaced people and nobody wants to tell him how to find his wife. Renato leaves him an anonymous note saying that she still loves him but has suffered misfortunes and gone to the city of Messina.

A year later, Nino and Malèna return and are seen strolling through the town. Women notice she now looks more matronly and plain. Even if she is still beautiful, since she is now married and living with her husband, they realize that she is no longer a threat. So people begin speaking of her with more respect. When she goes to the market, the women who beat her say good morning and call her madam. Walking home, some fruit falls from her bag and Renato rushes to pick it up. He wishes her good luck and she gives him an enigmatic half-smile, the only time either has ever spoken to or looked openly at the other.

The aged Renato reflects that he has known and loved many women and has forgotten all of them. The only one he can never forget is Malèna.

####A Man Betrayed####
Lynn Hollister, a bucolic lawyer takes on big-city corruption. He sets out to prove that an above-suspicion politician Boss Thomas "Tom" Cameron is actually a crook. Hollister is in love with the politician's daughter, Sabra.

####Man of the Year####
Tom Dobbs is host of a satirical news program, tapping into public frustrations with divisive, special interest-driven politics. Dobbs laughs off an audience suggestion that he run for president, but following online support, he announces his campaign on air. He gets on the ballot in 13 states and participates in a national debate with the Democratic incumbent, President Kellogg, and Republican candidate Senator Mills.

Eleanor Green works at the Delacroy voting machine company, which will provide machines for the Presidential election. Shortly before the elections, Eleanor notices that the voting system does not work correctly and alerts the head of the company, James Hemmings, via an e-mail that he deletes.

Dobbs takes the campaign a bit too seriously, to the chagrin of his manager, Jack Menken, and his show's producer, Eddie Langston. The night of the presidential debates, fed up with the other candidates' posturing, Dobbs shifts back into comedy, keeping the audience laughing while making serious points. He continues his showman persona on the campaign trail, shaking up the political landscape and surging in the polls, but remains well behind Kellogg and Mills.

On Election Day, early returns show Kellogg beating Mills everywhere, exactly as Eleanor predicted the voting system would report. Dobbs sweeps the 13 states in which he is on the ballot, taking enough electoral votes to be elected president. When Eleanor confronts Hemmings about the Delacroy computer error, senior executive Stewart turns her aside. While Dobbs and his team move from shock to celebration, Eleanor is attacked in her home and given an injection. The next day, she displays erratic behavior and is sent to the hospital, where tests reveal high levels of illegal drugs. Her workmate Danny visits and reveals he has been promoted, which she thinks is an effort to buy him off. He tries to convince her that she has a drug habit and that no one will listen if she goes public, but she decides that Dobbs will believe her.

Traveling to Washington and impersonating an FBI agent, Eleanor explains to Dobbs that she was recently fired by Delacroy, but he is pulled away before she can explain the election results. Dobbs tries to contact Eleanor by calling Delacroy's headquarters, and Hemmings explains Eleanor was fired due to a drug problem.

Eleanor figures out the flaw in Delacroy's system – no matter the actual results, the system declares the winner as the name with double letters, in alphabetical order, so that Do’’bb’’s beats Kello’’gg’’, which beats Mi’’ll’’s. Eleanor calls Dobbs and he whisks her off to a Thanksgiving celebration with his friends. Smitten with her, he says he already knows about her drug problem, which she denies and tells him that the election result was wrong before leaving. Dobbs calls Eleanor, telling her that he will break the news the next day. She calls Danny, who informs Stewart, who preempts Dobbs' public announcement by announcing that Eleanor was caught attempting to manipulate the election for Dobbs but that her efforts had no impact on the polls. Dobbs' team turns against Eleanor, except for Dobbs. Eleanor becomes increasingly concerned for her safety, and sees Delacroy agents break into her motel room and take her computer.

She flees to a crowded mall, but is followed and apprehended by a Delacroy agent. She escapes and calls Dobbs from a pay phone, but another Delacroy agent drives his truck into the phone booth. Dobbs goes to the scene and talks with the injured Eleanor in her ambulance, where she convinces him of the truth.

Dobbs’ friends encourage him to remain president, with polls showing that 60% of the nation wants him in office. That night, invited onto the Weekend Update segment of "Saturday Night Live", Dobbs announces that the Delacroy vote system was flawed, that Eleanor told her bosses but they covered it up and silenced her, and that he will not run in the new election that must now take place.

President Kellogg wins a second term, Dobbs returns to hosting his satirical news program, with Eleanor as his producer and later his wife, and the Delacroy executives are arrested. "TIME" magazine chooses Dobbs as Person of the Year.

####Man Wanted####
Lois Ames (Kay Francis) is the editor of "400 Magazine", whose wealthy husband, Fred (Kenneth Thomson), pays her little attention. His interests are polo and partying. When her personal secretary, (Elizabeth Patterson), can no longer take the long hours of work and quits, Lois hires Tom Sherman (David Manners), a handsome man who happens to come by the office to demonstrate a rowing machine, as her new secretary.

Tom soon makes himself indispensable to Lois, and their long hours spent together leads them to fall in love with each other. Tom's fiancée, Ruth Holman (Una Merkel), senses something is going on and isn't happy about it. Tom's roommate, Andy Doyle (Andy Devine), uses Tom's absences and Ruth's distress to try to romance Ruth himself. Meanwhile, Lois's husband, Fred, is having an affair with Anna Le Maire (Claire Dodd). Lois finds out when she discovers a key to Anna's room in Fred's vest pocket, which she puts on Fred's pillow; nothing is said between them, but Fred now knows that Lois knows about his infidelity.

After things go too far between Tom and Lois, Tom quits and begins to plan a wedding with Ruth. Lois tries to smooth things over with Fred, but instead they agree on an amicable divorce. On Tom's last day of work, Lois keeps him busy until very late, and he misses a dinner engagement with Ruth and Andy. Ruth storms into the office, with Andy in tow, and threatens to tell Fred about the affair. Lois tells everyone about the divorce, Ruth breaks her engagement with Tom and threatens to marry Andy in revenge, and Tom asks Lois to marry him.

####Management####
Mike Flux (Steve Zahn) works at his parents' motel as the night manager. One day he sees Sue (Jennifer Aniston), who is staying at the motel for the weekend. He develops a crush on her and surprises her at her door with a bottle of wine. She doesn't quite know what to make of his approach, shares some wine to be polite, then asks him to leave. He returns the next day, trying the same trick with champagne, and this time she allows him to touch her butt momentarily. As she heads back home the next day she decides to go back and have sex with Mike in the laundry room.

Mike realizes his feelings for Sue and flies to her home in Baltimore. She's shocked to see him there, but out of courtesy allows him to stay with her until morning when he can go back home. After spending some time together they get to know each other better as friends, and soon after Mike returns home, Sue stays at the motel again. They decide to go out and have fun. Mike's mother (Margo Martindale) is very sick, and the two stop by her home to see her. She approves of Sue, and tells Mike that he needs to find happiness in his life. Soon after Sue leaves, Mike's mother passes away. Mike decides to make a change in his life and go after Sue once again.

Mike learns that Sue has gotten back together with her old boyfriend, Jango (Woody Harrelson), a former punk rocker turned successful businessman in Aberdeen, WA. Mike settles into the new town by taking a job at a Chinese restaurant. The son of the owners, Al (James Hiroyuki Liao), befriends him and allows Mike to stay in the restaurant's basement. Mike skydives into Sue and Jango's pool to surprise her, but Jango responds by attacking him with an airsoft gun. Feeling bad about what he did, Jango invites Mike and Al over for dinner. Jango knows Mike has feelings towards Sue and threatens him. Regardless of the threat, Mike, with help from Al, sings a song for Sue outside her window later that night. Sue meets up with Mike the next day, informing him, that she and Jango are getting married. Sue is pregnant, and she wants to be with someone that's in control of his life. In anger after everything he worked for to be with her, Mike tells Sue to leave.

After spending four months in a Buddhist monastery, Mike returns to the motel, now being run solely by his father (Fred Ward). After talking about moving on with their lives, Mike's father hands him the deed to the motel. Mike decides to turn the motel into a homeless shelter, something Sue had mentioned always wanting to do. Mike calls her at home to tell her, but Jango answers the phone. He reveals that Sue has left him and is living with her mother. Mike makes his way to Sue's home to ask her for help with the shelter. She's happy to see him and tells him that she had messed up their relationship. Mike tells her he loves her and only wants to take care of her and her baby. The story ends as they embrace.

####Manhattan####
The film opens with a montage of images of Manhattan and other parts of New York City accompanied by George Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue", with Isaac Davis narrating drafts of an introduction to a book about a man who loves the city. Isaac is a twice-divorced, 42-year-old television comedy writer who quits his boring job. He is dating Tracy, a 17-year-old girl attending the Dalton School. His best friend, college professor Yale Pollack, married to Emily, is having an affair with Mary Wilkie. Mary's ex-husband and former teacher, Jeremiah, also appears, and Isaac's ex-wife Jill is writing a confessional book about their marriage. Jill, who before their marriage told Isaac that she was bisexual, has since come out and lives with her lesbian partner, Connie.

When Isaac meets Mary, her cultural snobbery offends him. Isaac runs into her again at an Equal Rights Amendment fund-raising event at the Museum of Modern Art hosted by Bella Abzug and escorts her home. They chat until sunrise in a sequence that culminates in a shot of the Queensboro Bridge. In spite of a growing attraction to Mary, Isaac continues his relationship with Tracy but emphasizes that theirs cannot be a serious relationship and encourages her to go to London to study acting.

After Yale breaks up with Mary, he suggests that Isaac ask her out. Isaac does, always having felt that Tracy was too young for him. Isaac breaks up with Tracy, much to her distress, and before long, Mary has virtually moved into his apartment. Emily is curious about Isaac's new girlfriend. The two couples enjoy a day out and upon walking down a street Isaac spots Jill's new book, "Marriage, Divorce, and Selfhood". Emily proceeds to read parts of the book aloud, including passages about a ménage à trois Isaac had with Jill and another woman, and an incident where Isaac attempted to run Connie over, much to Mary and Yale's amusement. Publicly humiliated, Isaac confronts Jill, who responds nonchalantly and mentions a film rights deal she has acquired. Upon returning home, Isaac learns from Mary that she is returning to Yale and wants to break up. A furious Isaac confronts Yale at the college where he teaches, and Yale argues that he found Mary first. Isaac discusses Yale's extramarital affairs with Emily and learns that Yale told her Isaac introduced Mary to him.

In the dénouement, Isaac lies on his sofa, musing into a tape recorder about the things that make "life worth living". When he finds himself saying "Tracy's face", he sets down the microphone. Unable to reach her by phone, he sets out for Tracy's on foot. He arrives at her family's apartment building just as she is leaving for London. He asks her not to go and says he does not want "that thing about [her] that [he] like[s]" to change. She replies that the plans have already been made and reassures him that "not everybody gets corrupted" before saying "you have to have a little faith in people". He gives her a slight smile, with a final look to the camera then segueing into final shots of the skyline with some bars of "Rhapsody in Blue" playing again. An instrumental version of "Embraceable You" plays over the credits.

####The Map of Tiny Perfect Things####
Mark, a teenage boy, has been stuck in a time loop, repeating the same day over and over again. After many iterations of the loop, Mark has perfected several routines and is able to aid other people by anticipating their movements. Developing a crush on a girl he gives directions to, Mark goes to the community pool to meet her again, saving her from being knocked into the pool by a beach ball. However, his efforts to spend more time with her are constantly frustrated. One day, while Mark is waiting to save the girl from the beach ball, another girl, Margaret, unexpectedly intervenes. Mark tracks her down and discovers that she is also living in the same time loop.

Mark and Margaret spend time together. Mark tells her about his desire to go to art school, and his father quitting his job to write a book on the Civil War; she talks about her dream of working as a mission specialist for NASA, and how she has been looking for a missing dog. They become close. Mark brings up possible ways they could break the time loop, but Margaret is not interested in trying to escape it. Every evening she hurries off after receiving a text from a medical student named Jared, who Mark speculates must be her boyfriend.

Mark and Margaret decide to look for moments of perfect beauty during the day; Mark conjectures that they might escape the time loop after finding all of them. To cheer Margaret up, Mark creates a mock-up of Tranquility Base in the school gym for her. Later, at his room, she sees a map he has created of the perfect moments. Mark leans in to kiss her, but she avoids the kiss, saying she does not want to be more than friends. The next day, when his dad comes to talk to him about his future, Mark calls him hypocritical for chasing his own dreams while thwarting Mark's. After talking to his sister Emma, Mark learns their dad did not quit his job, but was fired and was too ashamed to reveal it.

Mark suggests to Margaret that they might be able to break the loop if they go far away. They buy tickets to Tokyo, but Margaret leaves the plane before takeoff. When the plane crosses the International Date Line, Mark wakes up in his bedroom, realizing the plan did not work. He decides to focus on others in the next loop. He invites his father to tell him about the Civil War, and attends Emma's soccer game, where she scores a goal that she did not score in the loops when he was not there. While attempting a skateboarding trick, Mark injures himself and is taken to the hospital. There, he sees Margaret visiting her mother, who is dying of cancer. Mark realizes that he is not the center of this story, but rather Margaret is.

Margaret wakes up and manages to find the lost dog she has been searching for. She then has a conversation with Mark's friend Henry, whom Mark has repeatedly confided in about the time loop. After helping Henry win his video game, Margaret has an epiphany. She creates a three-dimensional model of the times and places of the perfect moments using string. The shadow cast by the model creates an image of a four-dimensional cube, with a single vertex missing. She determines that the final event will occur at 7:00 PM at the pool.

Margaret finds Mark sitting alone at the pool and explains that she is responsible for the time loop: this was the last day her mother is alive, and she was not willing to move past it. But she now believes that Mark was caught up in the loop too in order to allow her someone to move on with. The two of them kiss.

Margaret goes to the hospital and says goodbye to her mother for a final time. She and Mark go outside. At midnight it begins to rain, signalling that the loop has been broken. The next morning they finally return the missing dog.

####The Marriage of a Young Stockbroker####
The story mainly deals with the crumbling marriage of William Alren and his wife Lisa, and how William uses voyeurism and extra-marital affairs to "spice up" his marriage. William gives up his career as a stockbroker, and takes up voyeurism full-time.

After putting up with her husband's various dalliances, Lisa is advised by her outspoken sister Nan to get a divorce. Nan's own marriage to Chester is in no better shape than Lisa's and equally on the rocks. The film ends with William and Lisa reunited, but not before Lisa finally gets "revenge" on her husband.

####Me and Earl and the Dying Girl####
Seventeen-year-old Greg Gaines, who is self-described as having the face of a "little groundhog", is a senior at Pittsburgh's Schenley High School who avoids close engagement with other students. He learns that fellow student and former childhood friend of his, Rachel Kushner, has been diagnosed with leukemia and is forced by his parents to befriend her in her time of need. Despite an awkward first encounter on Rachel's staircase, with neither of them truly wanting the other's company, Greg manages to strike up a conversation about her pillow collection. She comes to find his quirky personality and honesty endearing.

Greg introduces Rachel to his "coworker" Earl (who tells Rachel that Greg avoids calling people his friend out of fear they won't reciprocate), with whom he makes short films parodying famous film titles. Despite Greg's reluctance, Earl shares their collection with her, which she finds entertaining. As Rachel begins her chemotherapy treatment and subsequently loses all of her hair, Greg begins spending less time on schoolwork and more time with and caring for her by entertaining her to lift her spirits. Though Rachel suffers through her treatment and seems to get worse and worse, Greg, who often breaks the fourth wall, assures viewers that she does not die in the end.

Madison, a pretty girl at school, convinces Greg and Earl to make a film dedicated to Rachel, and Rachel persuades Greg to apply to a local college. Greg continues to ignore schoolwork, and eventually school altogether, in order to finish the film. After realizing that her chemotherapy is doing more harm than good, Rachel opts to discontinue her treatment. Greg and Rachel have a heated argument over her choice where Greg accuses Rachel of giving up on herself and in return Rachel points out his unwillingness to do anything selfless unless he's told to do so. He leaves, devastated that he can no longer help her.

In a rage, Greg confronts Earl, blaming him for the events leading to the end of his friendship with Rachel. Earl in turn admonishes Greg's inability to care and sympathize for anyone but himself, before ultimately punching Greg after the latter dares him to. Later, Earl gives Greg a heartfelt testimonial for Rachel’s film before letting him know that he's finished with their friendship. Greg's admission to the college he planned to attend is later revoked due to his poor grades.

Later in the year, Greg learns that Rachel is back in the hospital and is dying. His mom encourages him to visit her. Madison invites Greg to the prom, but at the last moment, he decides to go to the hospital instead. During the journey there, Greg is asked by the limo driver if he loves the girl he's going to see, a question he finds himself unable to answer. He brings his iPhone and a portable projector and places a corsage around Rachel's wrist before running the film he made for her on the front wall of her room. Rachel is moved to tears by the movie, but falls into a coma shortly after viewing it and dies about 10 hours later. Greg admits to the viewer that he lied about Rachel not dying, as he "didn't think she would."

At her shiva, Greg is comforted by Rachel's mom and they grieve together. Greg and Earl rekindle their friendship. During the funeral, Greg sneaks into Rachel's room, where he finds a card from her stating that she wrote to Greg's college and explained that he missed school for her sake. It also states her wish for Greg to take any of her possessions that he pleases. He finds several intricate carvings within her books depicting scenes of her with Greg and Earl. Greg leaves with one of the books containing a personal carving and his favorite of Rachel's pillows.

Some time later, Greg writes his story of his time with Rachel and mails it to the college along with the film he made for her, with a warning that "the last person who saw this immediately went into a coma and DIED."

####Me and My Gal####
In this wisecracking comedy, Danny Dolan (Spencer Tracy) is a cop whose beat is the New York waterfront. Danny has a soft spot for Helen Riley (Joan Bennett), a sharp-tongued waitress at a cheap diner, while her scatter-brained sister Kate (Marion Burns) is in love with Duke (George Walsh), a sleazy low-level mobster. While Duke makes a play for Kate, both Helen and Dan know that he's bad news, and Danny wants to put Duke behind bars before he can break Kate's heart.

####Me and You and Everyone We Know####
The structure of the film consists of several subplots which all revolve around an intertwined cast of characters.

The film begins by introducing Richard (John Hawkes), a shoe salesman and recently separated father of two. After being thrown out by his wife Pam (JoNell Kennedy), he gets an apartment of his own to share with his children, Peter (Miles Thompson) and Robby (Brandon Ratcliff). He meets Christine (Miranda July), a senior-cab driver and amateur video artist, while she takes her client to shop for shoes, and the two develop a fledgling romantic relationship.

Robby, six years old, and his 14-year-old brother, Peter, have a joint online chat, which he later depicts in another chat session as "))<>((", an emoticon that means "pooping back and forth, forever." This piques the interest of the woman at the other end and she suggests a face-to-face meeting. When Robby and the woman meet at a park, she realizes he's a child and kisses him and walks away.

Two of Richard's teenaged neighbors, Heather (Natasha Slayton) and Rebecca (Najarra Townsend), develop a playful relationship with a much older neighbor Andrew (Brad William Henke) who works in the shoe store with Richard. He does not say much, but he keeps leaving signs on his window about what he would do to each of them. As a result of this relationship, Heather and Rebecca ask Peter if they can practice oral sex on him, so that he can tell them which of the two does it better; so they do. He says both were exactly the same. The daughter of a neighbor peeks in the window, sees what is happening, and quickly leaves. Heather and Rebecca later come to the neighbor's house intending to have sex with him as practice, but he appears afraid when he sees them through his window and he pretends not to be home.

Meanwhile, Christine's work is rejected by a contemporary art museum, but then later accepted by the curator, who turns out to be the woman who was instant messaging with the brothers.

The plots come together in the end, with Peter developing a friendship with the daughter of a neighbor, having been introduced to the hope chest that she has, Christine and Richard displaying a show of mutual acceptance of their attraction to each other, and, as a final plot device, Robby finding that the noise he had awoken to early every morning was that of an early-rising businessman tapping a quarter on a street sign pole. When asked why he is doing it, he stops and turns around, saying "just passing the time", and gives Robby the quarter. When his bus drives away and Robby tries it out himself, the sun heightens with each tap, time literally passing as he does it.

####Meet John Doe####
A local newspaper, "The Bulletin", is under new management, with columnist Ann Mitchell being one of the staffers dismissed to "streamline" the paper, but not before being told to write one final column. Infuriated, Ann prints a letter from a fictional unemployed "John Doe" threatening suicide on Christmas Eve in protest of society's ills. When the letter causes a sensation among readers, and the paper's competition, "The Chronicle", suspects a fraud and starts to investigate, editor Henry Connell is persuaded to rehire Ann, who schemes to boost the newspaper's sales by exploiting the fictional John Doe. From a number of derelicts who show up at the paper claiming to have written the original letter, Ann and Henry hire John Willoughby, a former baseball player and tramp in need of money to repair his injured arm, to play the role of John Doe. Ann starts to pen a series of articles in Doe's name, elaborating on the original letter's ideas of society's disregard for people in need.

Willoughby gets $50, a new suit of clothes, and a plush hotel suite with his tramp friend "The Colonel", who launches into an extended diatribe against "helots", people who are heels trying to sell things, burdening others with ownership, tying them down with responsibilities that require money to pay for them, until they, too, become helots. Proposing to take Doe nationwide via the radio, Ann is given $100 a week by the "Bulletin"<nowiki/>'s publisher, D. B. Norton, to write radio speeches for Willoughby. Meanwhile, John is offered a $5,000 bribe from the "Chronicle" to admit the whole thing was a publicity stunt, but ultimately turns it down and delivers the speech Ann has written for him instead. Afterward, feeling conflicted, he runs away, riding the rails with the Colonel until they reach Millsville. "John Doe" is recognized at a diner and brought to City Hall, where he's met by Bert Hanson, who explains how he was inspired by Doe's words to start a "John Doe club" with his neighbors.

The John Doe philosophy spreads across the country, developing into a broad grassroots movement whose simple slogan is, "Be a better neighbor". However, Norton secretly plans to channel support for Doe into support for his own national political ambitions. When a John Doe rally is scheduled, with John Doe clubs from throughout the country in attendance, Norton instructs Mitchell to write a speech for Willoughby in which he announces the foundation of a new political party and endorses Norton as its presidential candidate. On the night of the rally, John, who has come to believe in the John Doe philosophy himself, learns of Norton's treachery from a drunken Henry. He denounces Norton and tries to expose the plot at the rally, but his speech is interrupted by hordes of newsboys carrying a special edition of the "Bulletin" exposing Doe as a fake. Norton claims Doe had deceived him and the staff of the newspaper, like everyone else, and cuts off the loudspeakers before Doe could defend himself. Despondent at letting his now-angry followers down, John attempts suicide by jumping from the roof of the City Hall on Christmas Eve, as indicated in the original John Doe letter. Ann, who has fallen in love with John, desperately tries to talk him out of jumping (saying that the first John Doe has already died for the sake of humanity), and Hanson and his neighbors tell him of their plan to restart their John Doe club. Convinced not to kill himself, John leaves, carrying a fainted Ann in his arms, and Henry turns to Norton and says, "There you are, Norton! The people! Try and lick that!"

####Meet Me After the Show####
Delilah Lee (Betty Grable) is groomed by her husband Jeff Ames (Macdonald Carey) for his new Broadway show. Delilah becomes such a success to a point where she feels that Jeff thinks of her more as an asset than a wife. When the show's backer Gloria Carstairs (Lois Andrews) begins coming on to Jeff, Delilah leaves him, but regrets it later on and tries to win him back. She devises a scheme involving amnesia to lure Jeff back to her.

####Merely Mary Ann####
Orphan drudge Mary Ann finds love and hope in the arms of a promising but poor composer, John Lonsdale.

####The Mirror Has Two Faces####
Rose Morgan, a middle-aged English literature professor at Columbia University, lives with her vain, overbearing mother, Hannah. While attending her sister Claire's third wedding (to Rose's former boyfriend Alex), Rose tells her best friend, Doris that she has reached the point where she knows she will never get married. But she also thinks how wonderful it might feel to have a partner who really knows her.

Gregory Larkin is a Columbia mathematics professor who cannot connect with students and loses perspective as soon as he is aroused by an attractive woman. A few moments after Gregory begins a talk about his new book, his ex-girlfriend Candace arrives. She flusters him so much that he has a panic attack and is unable to continue. While recovering, Gregory begs his best friend, Henry, not to let him go home with Candace, but he leaves with her the moment she offers. Back at Gregory's place, Candace leaves immediately after having sex. She is still with her new boyfriend, but wanted to bolster her ego because he was cheating on her.

Left in a state of frustration and rejection, Gregory decides to place a personal ad that reads, "Columbia University professor (male) seeks woman interested in common goals and companionship. Must have Ph.D. and be over thirty-five. Physical appearance "not" important!"

Claire secretly responds to the ad for Rose, and that night Gregory asks Rose out to dinner. They begin a relationship akin to dating, but without any physical intimacy beyond an occasional hug. Three months later, Gregory proposes. He emphasizes that their relationship will be built on common interest and caring, not sex, though he does agree to occasional sex, provided Rose gives him enough warning. Gregory and Rose marry in a courthouse ceremony. The relationship continues to grow and become more emotionally intimate, with hints of physical attraction.

While discussing his book tour at breakfast, Rose asks if now is enough warning to tell him she would like to have sex tonight. She tries to make the scene seductive, while he tries to keep it benign. They end up passionately on the floor, until Gregory resists and pulls away. He expresses disappointment in her, calling her behavior "female manipulation", without admitting he only stopped because he was being swept away. Hours later, while Gregory is asleep, a devastated Rose sneaks out and goes back to her mother's.

During her stay with her mother, she is handed a photograph of herself as a little girl. Her mother describes how pretty she was back then, and that her father had never held a baby, until she came along. He "never let her go," Hannah told Rose. This greatly changes Rose's view about herself: "I was pretty?" After this, Rose decides to undergo a makeover (changes her diet, exercises, does her hair, starts wearing curve-favoring clothing and makeup). Meanwhile, missing his wife, Gregory cuts his European book tour short and comes home to Rose. However, when he tells Rose he doesn't like the changes, she tells him that she cannot continue being married, moving back in with her mother.

When Alex finds Claire in bed with her masseur, they separate. Rose comforts him, but she realizes the fantasy of Alex is a lot better than the reality. Gregory starts lashing out at students, distraught about his failing marriage. He ends up on Henry's couch, an emotional and physical wreck, insisting he loves Rose and does not know what to do. Henry encourages him to fight for her.

Before sunrise, Gregory goes to Rose's apartment. He tells Rose he loves her and he so desperately wanted her that night, it caused him to pull away. They mutually confess their love and, when Gregory says he wants to marry her, she reminds him that they are still married. The sun comes up, and they catch a taxi home.

####Modern Times####
The Tramp works on an assembly line, where he suffers greatly due to the stress and pace of the repetitive work. He eventually suffers a nervous breakdown and runs amok, getting stuck within a machine and throwing the factory into chaos; he is then sent to the hospital. Following his recovery, the now unemployed Tramp is mistakenly arrested in a Communist demonstration. In jail, he accidentally ingests smuggled cocaine, and in his subsequent delirium, he avoids being put back in his cell. When he returns, he stumbles upon a jailbreak and knocks the convicts unconscious for which he is hailed as a hero and given special treatment. When he is informed that he will soon be released due to his heroic actions, he argues unsuccessfully that he prefers life in jail.

Upon release, he applies for a new job with a shipbuilder but leaves after causing an accident. Soon after, he runs into a orphaned girl, Ellen (Paulette Goddard), who is fleeing the police after stealing a loaf of bread. Determined to go back to jail and to save her from arrest, the Tramp tells the police that he is the thief and asks to be arrested, but a witness reveals his deception and he is freed. He then eats an enormous amount of food at a cafeteria without paying to get arrested, and once again encounters Ellen in a paddy wagon after he is put in it. It soon crashes however, and she convinces him to escape with her. The Tramp then gets a job as a night watchman at a department store, and encounters three burglars led by "Big Bill," a fellow worker from the factory, who explains that they are hungry and desperate. After sharing drinks with them, he wakes up the next morning during opening hours and is arrested once again for failing to call the police on the burglars and for sleeping in the store’s clothes on a desk, shocking a customer and the storekeeper.

Days later, Ellen takes him to a run-down shack to live in. The next morning, he reads about an old factory’s re-opening and lands a job as a mechanic's assistant. The other workers then suddenly decide to go on strike, and tell the Tramp to leave with them. Outside the factory, he accidentally launches a brick at a policeman and is arrested again.

He is released two weeks later, and learns that Ellen is now a café dancer. She gets him a job as a singer and waiter, but he goes about his duties clumsily. During his floor show, he loses his cuffs, which bear the lyrics to his song, but he rescues the act by improvising the lyrics using gibberish and by pantomiming. When police arrive to arrest Ellen for her earlier escape, the two are forced to flee again, and Ellen despairs that their struggles are all pointless, but the Tramp reassures her. At a bright dawn, they walk down the road towards an uncertain but hopeful future.

####Monte Carlo####
As described in a film magazine review, three young small town women, Flossie, Hope, and Sally, the last a pretty school teacher; win a popularity contest and a trip to Monte Carlo. Arriving there, Sally accidentally becomes acquainted with Tony Townsend of New York when he hides from pursuing detectives in her hotel room. Tony has had bad luck financially, and to escape his creditors he assumes the identity of Prince Boris. Tony declares his love for Sally, is jailed as an imposter, but is then released through the intervention of the real Prince Boris. Tony leaves for home accompanied by Sally.

####The Monte Carlo Story####
The story takes place against the backdrop of the glorious French Riviera.  Marlene Dietrich plays a woman with a lot of class, but no money to satisfy her taste for the best things in life. She is dazzled by Count Della Fiabe, who is also trying to recuperate his debts at the gambling tables of the famous casino. To attract the woman, who he thinks is his meal ticket, the poor Italian noble man enlists the help of the same people to whom he owes money.

The film's most famous scene comes toward the end when Marlene Dietrich sings "Back Home in Indiana" in a seedy bistro for the enjoyment of Homer Hinckley, who she feels will be the man to make her rich.

####Moonrise Kingdom####
On the New England island of New Penzance, 12-year-old orphan Sam Shakusky attends Camp Ivanhoe, a Khaki Scout summer camp led by Scout Master Randy Ward. Suzy Bishop, also 12, lives on the island with her parents Walt and Laura, both lawyers, and her three younger brothers in a house called Summer's End.

Sam and Suzy, both introverted, intelligent, and mature for their age, meet in the summer of 1964 during a church performance of "Noye's Fludde" and become pen pals. The relationship becomes romantic over the course of their correspondence, and they make a secret pact to reunite and run away together. In September 1965, they execute their plan. Sam escapes from Camp Ivanhoe while Suzy runs away from Summer's End. The pair rendezvous, hike, camp, and fish in the wilderness with the goal of reaching a specific location.

Meanwhile, the Khaki Scouts have become aware of Sam's absence, finding a letter he left behind stating he has resigned. Scout Master Ward tells the Khaki Scouts to use their skills to set up a search party and find Sam. Island Police Captain Duffy Sharp and Ward contact Sam's guardians the Billingsleys, learning they are actually his foster parents and Sam is an orphan with a history of behavioral issues at home.

Eventually, a group of Khaki Scouts confronts Sam and Suzy and tries to capture them. During the resulting altercation, Suzy injures the Scouts' de facto leader Redford with a pair of scissors and a stray arrow fired by one of the Scouts kills Camp Ivanhoe's dog Snoopy. The Scouts flee, and Sam and Suzy hike to Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet which they name "Moonrise Kingdom." They set up camp and as the romantic tension between them grows, they dance on the beach and share each other's first kiss.

Suzy's parents, Ward, the Scouts, and Sharp finally find Sam and Suzy in their tent. Suzy's parents take her home. Ward gives Sam a letter from the Billingsleys stating that they no longer wish to house Sam. He stays with Sharp while they await the arrival of a Social Services worker, who will likely place Sam in an orphanage and possibly treat him with electroshock therapy.

While in their treehouse, the Camp Ivanhoe Scouts have a change of heart and decide to help Suzy and Sam. Together, they paddle to neighboring St. Jack Wood Island to seek out the help of Ben, an older cousin of the scout Skotak. Ben works at Fort Lebanon, a larger Khaki Scout summer camp on St. Jack Wood Island run by Ward's superior, Commander Pierce. Ben decides to try to take Sam and Suzy to a crabbing boat anchored off the island so that Sam can work as a crewman and avoid Social Services. He performs a "wedding" ceremony, which he admits is not legally binding, before they leave. Sam and Suzy never make it onto the crabbing boat, and her parents, Captain Sharp, Social Services, and the Scouts of Fort Lebanon under the command of Ward pursue them instead.

A violent hurricane and flash flood strike, and Sharp apprehends Sam and Suzy on the steeple of the church in which they first met. Lightning destroys the steeple, but Sharp saves them. During the storm, he decides to become Sam's legal guardian. The hurricane erases Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet from the map. At Summer's End, Sam is upstairs painting a landscape of Moonrise Kingdom. Suzy and her brothers are called to dinner, while Sam slips out of the window to join Sharp in his patrol car, telling Suzy he will see her the following day.

####Morning Glory####
Aspiring news producer Becky Fuller has dreamed since childhood of working for the "Today" show, but her dedication to her career puts off potential suitors. Laid off from her job at "Good Morning New Jersey", her mother advises her to give up her dream before it becomes an embarrassment. Becky perseveres, and receives a call from IBS News, which is seeking a producer for its struggling national morning show, "DayBreak".

After a discouraging job interview with executive Jerry Barnes, who dismisses both her and "DayBreak" as also-rans, Becky is brushed off in the elevator by one of her heroes, veteran television journalist Mike Pomeroy. Seemingly against his better judgement, Jerry hires Becky as "DayBreak"'s executive producer, and she moves to New York City.

On her first day, Becky realizes she has signed on to a show in turmoil, lacking in direction and money. After meeting acerbic, long-suffering co-host Colleen Peck, Becky fires the lecherous co-host Paul McVee, to her co-workers' delight. She chooses an unwilling Mike as Colleen's new co-host; under contract to IBS, he has escaped being utilized while still getting paid. Becky finds a clause in his contract requiring him to accept an official job offer or lose his salary, forcing him to comply.

Becky meets Adam Bennett, a fellow IBS producer who worked with the difficult Mike. They begin dating, and he is initially supportive of her dedication to her job. Contemptuous of morning television, Mike tries to sabotage his "DayBreak" debut by getting drunk. He refuses to banter, rejects segments he feels are beneath him, and antagonizes Colleen.

Jerry informs Becky that IBS wants to cancel "DayBreak", blaming her for the ratings' further slump. After a heated confrontation with Mike, Becky snaps and decides on a radical approach to save the show. Persuading Jerry to give her the show's remaining six weeks to vastly improve ratings, Becky sends Ernie, "DayBreak"'s weatherman, on stunts such as riding roller coasters and skydiving.

Colleen joins Becky's campaign to rejuvenate the show, appearing in colorful segments that help the show's ratings, but Jerry remains unconvinced. Adam, not realizing what is on the line, teases Becky about how caught up she is in improving the ratings; seeing this as a criticism she has heard from other men, Becky walks out.

With the six-week deadline approaching, Mike shows interest in doing a story on a sauerkraut festival, surprising his colleagues. Becky accompanies him, but realizes he is going to the Governor's summer house instead, and informs him that the show will be cancelled. Undeterred, Mike confronts the Governor on charges of racketeering, breaking the story of his arrest on live television. Mike tells Becky that he was similarly over-committed to his job, at the expense of his family and personal life.

The live arrest increases "DayBreak"'s ratings enough to secure another year for the show, and Becky receives a job offer from the "Today" show. She reconnects with Adam, and lashes out at Mike for his stubbornness. Becky accepts the job interview, with "DayBreak" on in the background. When Colleen tells Mike that his refusal to adapt has driven Becky away, he walks off air and storms the kitchen. Becky watches in shock as Mike presents a cooking segment, expertly showing viewers how to make a frittata. Becky runs back to the studio, deciding to remain at "DayBreak".

####Moscow on the Hudson####
Vladimir Ivanoff, a saxophonist with the Moscow circus, lives in a crowded apartment with his extended family. He stands in lines for hours to buy toilet paper and shoes. When Boris, the apparatchik assigned to the circus, criticizes Vladimir for being late to rehearsal and suggests Vladimir may miss the approaching trip to New York City, Vladimir gives Boris a pair of shoes from the queue that made Vladimir late. While Ivanoff is riding in his friend Anatoly's Lada, Anatoly stops to buy fuel for his car from a mobile black market gasoline dealer. While the friends wait for the gasoline seller to fill Anatoly's jerrycans, the two practice their English.

The circus troupe is sent to perform in New York City. Anatoly, who has talked of little else but defecting, can't bring himself to go through with it; and Vladimir, who had opposed the scheme as reckless and foolhardy, suddenly decides to do it. He runs from his Soviet controllers and hides behind a perfume counter at Bloomingdale's under the skirt of the clerk, Lucia Lombardo. When the New York City Police Department and the FBI arrive, Vladimir stands up to his controllers and defects with news cameras rolling. Vladimir is left with nothing but the clothes on his back, the money in his pocket, and a pair of blue jeans he had planned to buy for his girlfriend in Moscow.

Lionel Witherspoon, a security guard who protected Vladimir from his Russian handlers during the defection, takes him home to Harlem to live with Lionel's mother, unemployed father, sister, and grandfather—a living arrangement noticeably similar to Vladimir's family back in Moscow.

With the help of sympathetic immigration attorney Orlando Ramirez, a Cuban emigrant, Vladimir soon adapts to life in the United States. Vladimir attempts to find work despite speaking little English and fearing the threat of his former KGB handlers. He initially works as a busboy, McDonald's cashier, sidewalk merchant, and limousine driver. Although these jobs enable Vladimir to eventually move into his own apartment, he begins to doubt he will ever play saxophone professionally again.

Vladimir starts a relationship with Lucia. At a party celebrating Lucia's becoming an American citizen, Vladimir proposes to her; but she refuses and breaks up with him. Lionel decides to return to Alabama to be close to his minor son. However, more bad news comes in a letter from Vladimir's family that his grandfather has died.

Grieving, Vladimir goes to a Russian nightclub to ease his mind. When he returns home late to his apartment building drunk, he is mugged by two African American youths. He reports the incident to the police with his attorney Orlando present; and the two go to a diner where Vladimir rants about his misfortunes. During a confrontation with a burly man who reveals himself also as a Russian defector, Vladimir comes to appreciate his good fortune of living in the United States. Soon after, Lucia reunites with Vladimir telling him that she is not ready for marriage but would love to live with an immigrant. Lionel moves back from Alabama and takes over Vladimir's job driving a limousine.

Vladimir encounters his former KGB handler, who is now a street vendor selling hotdogs. He admitted he had to flee the USSR himself due to his failure to prevent Vladimir's defection, but has also come to appreciate New York City. Vladimir soon gets a job in a nightclub, where he once again plays saxophone.

####Mother's Day####
As Mother's Day nears, a group of seemingly-unconnected people in Atlanta come to terms with their relationships with their mothers.

Sandy is a divorced mother of two sons, Mikey and Peter, whose ex-husband, Henry has recently remarried a younger woman, Tina. Still getting used to this, she meets Bradley, a former marine, in the supermarket. Bradley's wife Dana, a Marine Lieutenant, died a year ago, leaving him with their two daughters, Vicky and Rachel. They all miss her terribly.

Kristin, adopted from birth, has her own daughter, Katie and mulls over marrying the father of her child, Zack. She considers her life incomplete and her friend Jesse encourages her to search for her birth mother. Jesse also happens to be Sandy's best friend.

Jesse and her sister Gabi have their own issues with their parents, who they feel are too racist and homophobic to be in their lives: Jesse is married and has a son, Tanner with Russell, who is not white. Gabi is married to her girlfriend Max and has a son, Charlie. When their parents, Earl and Florence suddenly show up, plenty of catching-up is in order.

As she's in Atlanta promoting her latest book, Miranda, an accomplished author and television personality, gets a surprise visit from Kristin, who is her daughter who she was forced to give her up for adoption at birth, as she was very young. Their making up leads to Kristin asking Zach to marry her on air and marrying on the same day, so Miranda can participate.

Jesse and Gabi's parents ambush them and their partners on their camper-van, and with Russell's mom's help through Skype, force him to make up with Jesse. Later on, the families including his mom, who flies in from Vegas, celebrate Mother's Day with a picnic in the park.

Sandy and Bradley meet again by chance in the hospital. She's there because of her younger son's asthma attack, he because of a mishap in the Mother's Day party he was throwing which ended with his going to the hospital for a broken leg. Helping her get unstuck from a vending machine, combined with his daughters' encouragement, Bradley finally starts to see her in a positive light.

####Mozart and the Whale####
Donald Morton (Josh Hartnett) is a taxi driver with Asperger's Syndrome and drives two Japanese passengers and his pet cockatiel around Spokane, Washington. Distracted, he bumps into the back of a florist's van, damaging his stock. Unfazed, Donald and his budgie take their groceries and leave, abandoning his taxicab and passengers. He takes his groceries to the self-help group for autistic adults. Before they head to the park to meet another autistic group, he tells one member, Gracie (Rusty Schwimmer), to gather the women and he will gather the guys to practice telling personal stories, but keeps getting distracted by performing mathematical sums of the microwaves' depleting numbers. He notices that Isabelle Sorenson (Radha Mitchell), who also has Asperger's, a new name, has signed up and tells Gracie to let her go first.

At the park, Isabelle tells the women of a childhood memory: she saw that her parents were happy an Olympian had broken a record, so in order to please her parents, and taking what she heard literally, she broke their music records. Donald tells his story to the men about his ability to do complex sums, but couldn't make friends. Isabelle goes on to tell of when she was raped when she went hitch-hiking. This causes Gracie to laugh manically. Heard by Donald, he tries to calm down an angry Isabelle and they find that they have much in common and take a liking to each other.

After Isabelle talks to Gregory (John Carroll Lynch), a man also in the group who is taking notes on a notepad, he calls Donald over to ask Isabelle if she may escort him to a Halloween party on his behalf. However, before Donald has the chance, Isabelle asks Donald out for lunch. They go to the zoo the following day where Isabelle asks Donald to escort her instead of Gregory. They agree to meet in-costume Halloween night. Donald dresses as a whale but decides against attending, ultimately leaving Isabelle, dressed as Mozart, waiting. She goes to his apartment and they decide to take a walk about town and talk until the final bus is due when they share their first kiss.

Unsure when to call, Donald leaves multiple messages on her phone; she finally answers and they go to the amusement park. During a ring toss, the clanging of the metal rings hitting the bottles and the ringing of a bell cause Isabelle to scream and collapse on the floor. Donald takes her back to his filthy apartment and they agree to sleep together. The following day at the self-help group, Gregory accuses Donald of exploiting his position for sexual favors. Meanwhile, Isabelle occupies herself by waiting with Bronwin (Erica Leerhsen), one of the younger members of the group who recently learned that her father has blood cancer, until her parents pick her up.

Isabelle takes the liberty of cleaning Donald's apartment while he goes shopping. When he returns, he is horrified to see that everything is different; the piles of newspaper are stacked neatly, rotting food from the fridge is thrown away and has a new shower curtain and a toilet lid cover. He becomes angry at Isabelle for changing everything, by saying "you stole my life" before leaving again, although Isabelle thought that he would like it. He later leaves a number of apologetic messages on Isabelle's phone. The next day, he goes to the hair salon where Isabelle works as a hair stylist to apologize in person, and Isabelle forgives him, while introducing him as her boyfriend to the staff and her co-workers.

Isabelle shows Donald an abandoned rooftop, calling this a place where people who don't know where they belong can belong. She suggests that they can buy a house together and her therapist has arranged a job interview for a statistic analyst post at a university. He gets the job and they move into their new house, making it their own.

Donald tells Isabelle that he wants everything to be nice for when his boss, Wallace (Gary Cole) comes for dinner. Believing that he thinks that she doesn't keep the house nice, Isabelle spites Donald by keeping the pets uncaged, much to Donald's shock when he returns, and she maintains extroverted behavior and tells of her off-the-wall plans for the house. Donald explodes, asking how they're going to afford all that, which leads to the two of them arguing over it but when Isabelle says that they are both crazy, he retaliates by telling her that she is crazier, which leads to her throwing him out of the house. He stays with Gregory in his house, and after listening to a tearful answer message that Isabelle's rabbit, Bongo, has died, he runs to comfort her. Isabelle suggests that they should just be friends.

Donald invites Isabelle to a restaurant, where he proposes to her, much to Isabelle's dismay. She leaves abruptly back home and overdoses over the counter drug. Donald returns just in time to take her to the hospital, where Isabelle's psychiatrist advises him to leave her alone, testing his willpower to refrain from calling her.

Donald sees Isabelle leaving the university and follows her to the abandoned rooftop, where he expresses that the only nice thing he had left to give her was not to call, to find that Isabelle was waiting for his call and she missed him. They express their true love with an embrace and kiss. The movie ends with the happy couple, now married, in their home, enjoying Thanksgiving dinner with the self-help group members.

####Mr. Deeds Goes to Town####
During the Great Depression, Longfellow Deeds, the co-owner of a tallow works, part-time greeting card poet, and tuba-playing inhabitant of the hamlet of Mandrake Falls, Vermont, inherits 20 million dollars from his late uncle, Martin Semple. Semple's scheming attorney, John Cedar, locates Deeds and takes him to New York City. Cedar gives his cynical troubleshooter, ex-newspaperman Cornelius Cobb, the task of keeping reporters away from Deeds. Cobb is outfoxed by star reporter Louise "Babe" Bennett, who appeals to Deeds' romantic fantasy of rescuing a damsel in distress by masquerading as a poor worker named Mary Dawson. She pretends to faint from exhaustion after "walking all day to find a job" and worms her way into his confidence. Bennett proceeds to write a series of enormously popular articles on Longfellow, portraying him as a yokel who has suddenly inherited riches, and giving him the nickname "Cinderella Man".

Cedar tries to get Deeds' power of attorney in order to keep his own financial misdeeds secret. Deeds, however, proves to be a shrewd judge of character, easily fending off Cedar and other greedy opportunists. He wins Cobb's wholehearted respect and eventually Babe's love. She quits her job in shame, but before she can tell Deeds the truth about herself, Cobb finds it out and tells Deeds. Deeds is left heartbroken and decides to return to Mandrake Falls. After he has packed and is about to leave, a dispossessed farmer stomps into his mansion and threatens him with a gun. He expresses his scorn for the seemingly heartless, ultra-rich man, who will not lift a finger to help the multitudes of desperate poor. After the intruder comes to his senses, Deeds realizes what he can do with his troublesome fortune. He decides to provide fully equipped convert|10|acre|adj=on|0|abbr=off|lk=on farms free to thousands of homeless families if they will work the land for three years.

Cedar joins forces with Deeds' only other relative, Semple, and his domineering wife, in an attempt to have Deeds declared mentally incompetent. A sanity hearing is scheduled to determine who should control the fortune. During the hearing, Cedar calls an expert who diagnoses Deeds with manic depression based on Babe's articles and witnesses to his recent behavior. Though Deeds has pledged to defend himself, he refuses to speak. Babe speaks up passionately on his behalf, castigating herself for what she did to him. When he realizes that she truly loves him, he begins speaking, systematically punching holes in Cedar's case and then landing one in his face. The judge declares him to be not only sane, but "the sanest man who ever walked into this courtroom". Victorious, Deeds and Babe kiss.

####Mr. Wise Guy####
In New York, the East Side youth gang, consisting of: Muggs McGinnis, Danny Collins, Glimpy Stone, Scruno, Skinny, and Peewee are falsely arrested on the wharf because the truck they are playing in was stolen. They are remanded to Wilton Reform School, where Muggs, the wise-cracking leader of the gang, is dubbed "Mr. Wise Guy" by the brutal guard Jed Miller.

Jim Barnes, the new warden, reassures Danny's older brother Bill, who has bad memories of the school from when he served as a guard there, that his testimony describing the place's cruelty eventually resulted in the dismissal of the former warden and the adoption of gentler rules. Bill is given a tour of the school by Barnes's secretary, Ann Mitchell, and later takes her out to dinner.

That night, while Bill buys cigarettes in a drugstore, escaped convict Luke Manning robs the place and murders the clerk. Manning takes Bill hostage in his car and forces him to lead the police on a chase. Manning escapes when Bill crashes the car, and Bill is later convicted of robbery and murder and sentenced to execution.

In the reform school, the boys have been battling with two toughs, "Rice Pudding" Charlie and Chalky Jones, but when Barnes witnesses Miller encouraging a fistfight, he demands Miller's resignation. Chalky tries to get the kids in trouble by informing Barnes of their plans to run away, but in an effort to establish a code of honor, Barnes punishes Chalky for being an informer.

When Muggs and his pals see newsreel footage of a man and woman accepting the winnings from a lottery, they recognize the man as Knobby, the driver of the stolen truck. They link Knobby to Manning based on information given to them by Charlie, who is Manning's nephew. Armed with information that could prove Bill's innocence, the boys escape from the reform school and go to the apartment of Dorothy Melton, the woman from the newsreel. The kids hold the pair, who had been planning to leave town with the lottery money which actually belongs to Manning, who was afraid of being seen. Manning appears at Dorothy's apartment to demand his money and hits Dorothy for double-crossing him with Knobby. Before the situation can worsen, the police arrive and arrest the criminals. Bill gets a reprieve from the governor, and Ann and the boys see him off as he reports for active military duty. Upon seeing Miller also being drafted, Bill tell his Sergeant to book him up for the guard house before Bill starts to beat up Miller while the boys are watching and cheering.

####Mrs. Winterbourne####
On her 18th birthday, Connie Doyle meets lowlife Steve DeCunzo. She moves in with him and winds up pregnant. He kicks her out when she won't abort the baby, denying responsibility. Months later, a destitute Connie gets inadvertently swept aboard a train at Grand Central Terminal. With no ticket and no money, Connie is rescued by Hugh Winterbourne, who takes her to his private compartment. She meets his wife, Patricia, who is also pregnant. Patricia and Connie bond, and Patricia shows Connie her wedding band, which has the couple's names engraved on the inside. Patricia encourages Connie to try the ring on. When the train suddenly crashes, Patricia is thrown outside, leaving Connie the only one in the private compartment.

Eight days later, Connie wakes up in the hospital to discover she has given birth to a baby boy. Connie was found in the Winterbourne's sleeper car wearing the wedding band, and has been mistaken for Patricia.  She also learns "the other pregnant woman on the train" (Patricia, mistaken for Connie) and Hugh both died in the crash. She tries to explain, but is prevented from doing so by the hospital staff, who believe her to be hysterical. Hugh's mother, Grace, who has a bad heart, had never met Patricia before, and so assumes Connie is Patricia.  Grace calls asking Connie to come to the Winterbourne estate. With nowhere else to go, Connie accepts the offer and is driven there by Paco, the loyal chauffeur. There, Connie meets Bill, Hugh's identical twin brother. When the shock of seeing the twin of the man she is claiming as her deceased husband wears off, she nervously begins her new life. She names her newborn son Hughie, after his supposed father. Her new life is very different, and she finds it difficult to adjust. She is helped by Grace, who accepts anything she does, and gives her a socialite make-over.

Meanwhile, since the police think that Patricia was Connie, they tell Steve that Connie and his unborn baby have died. Steve doesn't really seem to care, which disturbs his new girlfriend.

Bill questions Connie closely, suspicious of inconsistencies in her story. Annoyed by this, Grace forces Connie on Bill one day, and Bill and Connie walk around Boston, and begin to bond. During the day, Connie accidentally signs her real name, which Bill notices. He investigates, learning her real identity. Bill prepares to expose Connie when he learns that Grace plans to change her will to include Connie and baby Hughie. However, he changes his mind when Connie becomes upset and begs Grace not to include her and Hughie in the will, proving to him that Connie is not after the family's money. Connie's protests make Grace want to include them even more and the will is signed. Bill and Connie are then called to help a drunk Paco, heart-broken from a recent failed romance, to his bed. He demands that Bill and Connie dance a tango before he will fall asleep. They do so, and end up sharing several kisses. Grace meets a love-struck Bill as he is leaving, and, hearing him confess concern over what Hugh would think if Bill has feelings for Hugh's (possible) widow, assures him that his brother would want him to be happy.

Connie receives an anonymous letter asking "Who are you? And whose baby is that?" She has been feeling guilty for taking advantage of Grace's (and now Bill's) kindness, but worries that any revelation of the truth would endanger Grace's life. Connie decides to leave with Hughie, and is found packing by Bill. Bill tries to convince her to stay, proposing to her. He tells her to think about it overnight. Connie decides to run away anyway. Paco follows her to the train station, tells her about his own shady past, and makes her realize she and the baby are just as valuable to Grace as Grace is to them. Connie returns home to find Grace has had a heart attack because of her sudden disappearance. She and Grace talk about Bill's proposal, and Grace tells Connie to never take the baby away again. Connie decides to accept the situation, and agrees to marry Bill as Patricia Winterbourne.

Steve saw a publicity shot of Connie as Patricia, and sent her that letter. He blackmails her to meet with him the next day, or else he will go to Grace, possibly giving her another heart attack. Grace, seeing Connie's distress from afar, sends Paco after Steve as he leaves, to discover his identity. At Steve's motel, Connie writes him a check to leave her and the baby alone, but Steve only wants it to force her into a worse scheme - pretending to kidnap Hughie, ransoming him back. If Connie goes to the police, Steve will use the check as proof that Connie approached him with the idea. Connie, terrified that Grace will die if she is frightened about Hughie being kidnapped, returns to the estate, and steals a pistol from a display case, then returns to the motel to frighten Steve into returning the incriminating check. She does not at first realize that Steve is already dead, and the pistol accidentally goes off when she finds out. Bill rushes in on the echo of the gunshot, and both Bill and Connie deny causing Steve's death. Connie talks Bill out of calling the police, and searches briefly for her own check. Failing to find it, she and Bill flee the scene, not knowing that Paco sees their fight from outside the motel. It is then that Connie begins to tell Bill about the lie she has been living, but Bill reveals that he already knows Connie's true identity, and that he loves her anyway.

The next day, which happens to be their wedding day, the priest tells Bill and Connie that Grace is outside the church, confessing to Steve's murder to the police lieutenant who came asking for Patricia Winterbourne. They rush to Grace's side, and each confesses to the murder themselves, trying to shield the others. Paco arrives in time to add his confession to the mix.

The police officers tell them they already have the murderer in custody. They only came to the church to question Connie about her check to Steve. The murderer was the woman Steve started seeing after dumping Connie. Like Connie, she had gotten pregnant and Steve had abandoned her.

Connie confesses the truth about Hughie's parentage to Grace, who says she'll still accept Connie and Hughie, adding that she'd like more grandchildren.  The wedding goes ahead, and Bill presents Connie with a wedding ring that has 'Bill & Connie' engraved on the inside (the ring she wore in the hospital having had 'Hugh & Patricia' in it). Thus Connie, who had been pretending to be Mrs. Winterbourne, finally becomes a real Mrs. Winterbourne.

####Mumford####
As a relative newcomer to an Oregon town that bears his name, Dr. Mumford (Loren Dean) seems charming and skillful to his neighbors and patients. His unique, frank approach to psychotherapy soon attracts patients away from the two therapists (David Paymer and Jane Adams) already working in the area.

Soon he is treating a variety of conditions, ranging from the obsession of one man (Pruitt Taylor Vince) with erotic novels to an unhappily married woman (Mary McDonnell) and her compulsive shopping. Mumford befriends a billionaire computer mogul (Jason Lee) and a cafe waitress (Alfre Woodard) and attempts to play matchmaker. He also begins to fall for a patient (Hope Davis) who suffers from chronic fatigue syndrome.

Together with an attorney (Martin Short) whom Mumford had rejected as a patient because of his narcissism, the rival therapists conspire to find skeletons in Mumford's closet, hoping to destroy his reputation. Meanwhile, Mumford's inherent likability causes his life to become intertwined with much of the rest of the town.

####Mutual Appreciation####
The principal characters are Lawrence, Ellie, Alan and Sara. Lawrence, a teaching assistant, and Ellie have been together for about a year. Lawrence loves Ellie, and she outwardly reciprocates while masking her doubts about their relationship. Sara is a radio disc jockey. She meets Alan, a former member of a band called The Bumblebees, at the radio station and invites him to her apartment.

####My Blind Brother####
An overachieving blind man and his unaccomplished brother compete for the same woman.

####My Fair Lady####
In London, Professor Henry Higgins, a scholar of phonetics, believes that the accent and tone of one's voice determines a person's prospects in society ("Why Can't the English?"). At the Covent Garden fruit-and-vegetable market one evening, he meets Colonel Hugh Pickering, himself a phonetics expert who had come from India to see him. Higgins boasts he could teach even Eliza Doolittle, the young flower seller woman with a strong Cockney accent, to speak so well he could pass her off as a duchess at an embassy ball. Eliza's ambition is to work in a flower shop, but her accent makes that impossible ("Wouldn't It Be Loverly"). The following morning, Eliza shows up at Higgins' home, seeking lessons. Pickering is intrigued and offers to cover all the attendant expenses if Higgins succeeds. Higgins agrees and describes how women ruin lives ("I'm an Ordinary Man").

Eliza's father, Alfred P. Doolittle, a dustman, learns of his daughter's new residence ("With a Little Bit of Luck"). He shows up at Higgins' house three days later, ostensibly to protect his daughter's virtue, but in reality to extract some money from Higgins, and is bought off with £5. Higgins is impressed by the man's honesty, his natural gift for language, and especially his brazen lack of morals. Higgins recommends Alfred to a wealthy American who is interested in morality.

Eliza endures Higgins' demanding teaching methods and treatment of her personally ("Just You Wait"), while the servants feel both annoyed with the noise as well as pitiful for Higgins ("Servants' Chorus"). She makes no progress, but just as she, Higgins, and Pickering are about to give up, Eliza finally "gets it" ("The Rain in Spain"); she instantly begins to speak with an impeccable upper-class accent, and is overjoyed at her breakthrough ("I Could Have Danced All Night").

As a trial run, Higgins takes her to Ascot Racecourse ("Ascot Gavotte"), where she makes a good impression initially, only to shock everyone by a sudden lapse into vulgar Cockney while cheering on a horse. Higgins partly conceals a grin behind his hand. At Ascot, she meets Freddy Eynsford-Hill, a young upper-class man who becomes infatuated with her ("On the Street Where You Live").

Higgins then takes Eliza to an embassy ball for the final test, where she dances with a foreign prince. Also present is Zoltan Karpathy, a Hungarian phonetics expert trained by Higgins, who is an impostor detector. After he dances with Eliza, he declares that she is a Hungarian princess.

Afterward, Eliza's hard work is barely acknowledged, with all the praise going to Higgins ("You Did It"). This and his callous treatment of her, especially his indifference to her future, causes her to walk out on him, but not before she throws Higgins' slippers at him, leaving him mystified by her ingratitude ("Just You Wait (Reprise)"). Outside, Freddy is still waiting ("On the Street Where You Live (Reprise)") and greets Eliza, who is irritated by him as all he does is talk ("Show Me"). Eliza tries to return to her old life but finds that she no longer fits in. She meets her father, who has been left a large fortune by the wealthy American to whom Higgins had recommended him, and is resigned to marrying Eliza's stepmother. Alfred feels that Higgins has ruined him, lamenting that he is now bound by "middle-class morality", in which he gets drunk before his wedding day ("Get Me to the Church On Time"). Eliza eventually ends up visiting Higgins' mother, who is outraged at her son's callous behavior.

The next day, Higgins finds Eliza gone and searches for her ("A Hymn to Him"), eventually finding her at his mother's house. Higgins attempts to talk Eliza into coming back to him. He becomes angered when she announces that she is going to marry Freddy and become Karpathy's assistant ("Without You"). He makes his way home, stubbornly predicting that she will come crawling back. However, he comes to the unsettling realization that she has become an important part of his life ("I've Grown Accustomed to Her Face"). He enters his house feeling lonely, reflecting on his callous behaviour and missing Eliza so much that he turns on his gramophone and listens to her voice. Suddenly, Eliza reappears at the door and turns it off to catch his attention, with Higgins asking, "Eliza, where the devil are my slippers?"

####My Girl 2####
Vada Sultenfuss has matured from the spunky 11-year-old hypochondriac in 1972 to a more serious teenager in early 1974. Her father Harry and his new wife Shelly DeVoto, whom he dated in the first film, are expecting a baby, and they all still live in the Sultenfuss funeral parlor in Madison, Pennsylvania. To accommodate the new baby, Vada moves into her late Gramoo's old bedroom. She struggles with these adjustments, along with figuring boys out. One of them from school, Kevin, seems to like her friend Judy, but Vada wonders if he likes her, too. Both her father and Shelly try to give Vada some boy advice, but it backfires.

Vada receives a school assignment to write an essay on someone she admires but has never met. She decides to write about her late mother, Margaret Ann Muldovan (Maggie), but has few sources to go on, all confined to a small box. Among its contents are programs of plays her mother acted in, a passport, and a mystery paper bag with a date scribbled on it. Vada expresses her desire to travel someday, so Shelly concocts a plan for her to go to Los Angeles during her spring break, where she can stay with her uncle Phil and do research on her mother, who lived in L.A. growing up. Initially against the idea, believing Vada is too young to be traveling by herself, and fearing what might happen to her there, Harry lets Vada take the five-day trip.

On arriving in L.A., Vada confronts a boy her age named Nick, who shows up at the airport instead of Phil. He is the son of Phil's new companion Rose, who runs a car repair shop where Phil is now a mechanic. Vada notices that her uncle has trouble with commitment, while he and Rose live together. Although annoyed at first about sacrificing his own spring break, Nick helps Vada with the difficult search of learning more about her mother taking her around the city.

First planning to visit her mother's high school, Vada discovers that it was destroyed in a fire. While a setback in her quest, she and Nick eventually track down a yearbook and meet several people who knew Maggie, including a police officer, photographer and film director. Vada also meets her favorite poet, Alfred Beidermeyer, who also lives in L.A., but after hearing his advice on not becoming a writer, she takes it hard. Later in the trip, Nick and Vada sneak out one evening to catch some Hollywood attractions, during which time Vada also gets her ears pierced, despite Nick's opposition.

Vada learns some shocking things about her mother, such as being suspended from school for smoking, and having another husband before her father named Jeffrey Pommeroy. Emotionally crushed by the latter, Vada suspects that Jeffrey may actually be her father instead. Realizing he holds the key to more about her mother, she gets help from the police to locate him first. Vada goes to see Jeffrey, who instantly remembers Maggie. He provides Vada with valuable information for her essay, including a home movie and the answer behind the date written on the paper bag. Viewing the home movie touches Vada, as she watches her mother. Jeffrey also assures Vada that he is not her father.

Meanwhile, Phil tries to prove his love to Rose, after a man owning a fancy car repeatedly stops by the repair shop and tries to sweep her away by continuously flattering her. When Phil finally gets the courage to show how much she means to him, he proposes to her.

As Vada is ready to head home, she and Nick share a goodbye kiss at the airport before she boards the plane. He has left her a gift in her backpack—earrings. When she returns home, she finds out that Shelly just had the baby and heads to the hospital to see her new brother. To calm his crying, Vada, while holding him, sings "Smile", a song she heard her mother singing in the home movie. Vada receives an A+ on her essay, and hopes to share what she learned during her trip with her brother someday.

####My Love Came Back####
A beautiful young violinist named Amelia Cornell (Olivia de Havilland) is a student at the prestigious Brissac Academy of Music in New York City. Unable to support her mother on her meager scholarship stipend, she is forced to provide music lessons in her spare time—something strictly forbidden by the school and enforced zealously by the dean of the school, Dr. Kobbe (Grant Mitchell). Frustrated by her financial constraints and at being treated like a child by the dean, Amelia decides to leave the academy and join a jazz group led by her fellow student and swing bandleader Dusty Rhodes (Eddie Albert).

Meanwhile, after seeing Amelia perform at a concert, a distinguished wealthy patron of the arts, Julius Malette (Charles Winninger), finally accepts the academy's offer to make him president of the school—an offer inspired by Julius' wealth and influence. When he learns that Amelia is planning to leave the academy for financial reasons, Julius—who has a crush on the much younger violinist—secretly arranges for a second scholarship that will allow her to continue her studies. After Amelia meets her patron, the kind and gentlemanly president sends her a phonograph player and records, and escorts her to concerts to broaden her musical experience.

One evening, Julius is unable to attend a concert with Amelia and sends his young business manager, Tony Baldwin (Jeffrey Lynn), to the concert hall to explain his absence. In the coming days, Tony and Amelia begin to fall in love, but Tony does not reveal his feelings, believing that Amelia is his boss's mistress.

The budding relationship between Tony and Amelia is further complicated when Julius' brash son Paul (William T. Orr) discovers that Tony has been mailing company checks to Amelia, unaware that these "scholarship" checks were mailed at his father's request. When Paul accuses Tony of misappropriating company funds, Tony protects his boss with his silence. Later, Paul sees his Julius entering Amelia's apartment, he believes that his father is being unfaithful to his mother. He apologizes to Tony and thanks him for trying to shield his family from the sordid news. When Paul tells Tony that Julius is with Amelia, Tony decides not to see Amelia again, nor answer her calls. His distrust is reinforced when he learns that the checks sent to Amelia have been cashed—he doesn't know that her friend Dusty "borrowed" the money.

Soon after, Julius and his wife organize a party and hire Amelia's roommate, Joy O'Keefe (Jane Wyman), and her boyfriend, Dusty Rhodes, to provide an evening of innovative classical and swing music. At the party, Amelia confesses everything to Mrs. Malette, and then plays swing violin with the band, shocking Julius and her teacher. The music critic at the party, however, is impressed, which gives her new style legitimacy. When Amelia learns that Dusty "borrowed" her check, and how that must have looked to Tony, she demands that Dusty explain to Tony what had been going on. Afterwards, Tony approaches Amelia in the garden, apologizes for his suspicions, and kisses her passionately.

####My Sexiest Year####
Jake Stein (Frankie Muniz) is a 17-year-old who lives with his sick mother and grandfather in Brooklyn. He wants nothing more than to be a writer, but when his mother's health takes a turn for the worse, Jake is sent to Miami to live with his father, "Zowie" (Harvey Keitel), a small-time "handicapper" who gives horse racing tips for a living. Not much of a parent, Zowie has shirked his fatherly responsibilities for most of his son's life. Nonetheless, Jake is excited about the prospects of bonding with his father in sunny Miami.

Jake quickly befriends Mark, a local rich kid, whose excessive drug use helps him get through the pressures of teenage life in Southern Florida, where the "in" crowd only cares about how much money one's parents make, who's coming to one's pool party, and whether or not one is getting laid. As Jake tries to navigate the waters of his new home—while trying to connect with his eccentric father—he meets Marina (Amber Valletta), a famous model who is in town for a photo shoot; the two quickly bond. Jake reminds Marina of her younger brother, who died in a motorcycle accident, and Jake is unable to get over the fact that such a beautiful woman is interested in him. But just when things seem to be going right, all goes terribly wrong. Jake must figure out how to become a man, if he is ever going to finish writing his memoir.

####Mystic Pizza####
Sisters Kat and Daisy Araújo and their friend Jojo Barbosa are Portuguese-American teenage girls working as waitresses at Mystic Pizza, a pizza parlor owned by Leona in the fishing town of Mystic, Connecticut.

Kat and Daisy are total opposites. Kat, the younger sister, is an aspiring astronomer working at the planetarium in the Whaling Museum of the Mystic Seaport, and Yale University accepted her on a partial scholarship. Kat works at the restaurant and as a babysitter to raise money for school. Daisy's goal is to have as much fun as possible. Their mother is pleased with Kat, while often questioning Daisy's life choices.

Daisy meets Charles, a rich young man at a bar. The two are immediately attracted to each other and begin a relationship, much to her mother's dismay. At a family dinner, Charles's relatives unintentionally make insensitive comments about Daisy's ethnicity, and Charles overreacts. Daisy breaks up with him, accusing him of using her to rebel against his parents.

Kat finds herself infatuated with her employer Tim, an architect and Yale graduate, who hired her to babysit his four-year-old daughter Phoebe while his wife works in England. A relationship ultimately develops between them that she believes to be love, and they have sex. However, when his wife returns, Kat's illusions are shattered. Daisy consoles her devastated sister, and they bond.

Jojo fainted at her wedding to Bill because she had cold feet about making a lifetime commitment. Nonetheless, she wants to continue having sex with Bill until she is ready to be married. Bill eventually breaks up with her because she will not make a commitment.

A famous television food critic called "The Fireside Gourmet" unexpectedly visits Mystic Pizza. As Kat, Daisy, Jojo, and Leona watch from the counter, he takes a few bites of one pizza slice, jots notes in his notebook, and leaves after paying the check. His approval can do wonders for a restaurant, but they are not optimistic. However, a few days later he gives the pizzeria his highest rating, calling the pizza "superb". The restaurant phone immediately starts ringing, with Leona laughing as she informs the caller that no reservations are needed.

In the end, Tim brings Phoebe to Mystic Pizza because she wants to say goodbye to Kat. Tim gives her a check to help cover her tuition expenses, but she tears it up; she later accepts money from Leona. Jojo finally marries Bill, and Daisy and Charles reconcile at the wedding. The film ends with the three girls overlooking the water from the restaurant's balcony, reminiscing about their time together and wondering about the future.

####The Nanny Diaries####
Twenty-one-year-old Annie Braddock has recently graduated from Montclair State University. She has no idea what or who she wants to be. One day, while sitting in the park, Annie sees a young boy about to be hit by a Segway. Annie saves him and meets the boy's mother, who we meet as Mrs. X. When she introduces herself as "Annie", Mrs. X mistakes her words for "Nanny" and hires her to look after Grayer, the boy she saved (Mrs. X also continues to call her "Nanny" instead of "Annie" throughout the film). Annie lies to her mother Judy about taking a job at a bank and, in reality, moves into the Xs' apartment to be the nanny for Grayer.

Life with the incredibly privileged Xs is not what she thought it would be, and her life is complicated further when she falls for "Harvard Hottie", who also lives in the building. Interspersed with her life as the Xs' nanny are her interactions with "Harvard Hottie", as well as her longtime friend Lynette. "Harvard Hottie" reveals to Annie that he can relate to her charge Grayer, as when he lost his mother age four his absentee father left him with a string of nannies until he reached the age he could be shipped off to boarding school.

Annie continues to keep her mother in the dark about her real job, giving her regular but false progress reports. Further complications arise when Judy decides to visit her, forcing Annie to pretend Lynette and her roommate Calvin are a couple and that their apartment is Annie's apartment. Judy ultimately discovers the truth when Grayer becomes severely ill, and Annie desperately calls her for help.

After a rough start, Annie eventually bonds with Grayer, whom she addresses by his preferred code name, "Grover", and discovers that he is actually a sweet and loving child who is neglected by both his parents, which explains his uncontrollable behavior. Parallel to this, Annie begins to also notice that Grayer is not the only one being neglected: Mrs. X is as well, with Mr. X constantly being cruel to her and committing subtly obvious adultery. Mrs. X makes numerous attempts to make her husband love her, including lying to him about being pregnant with their second child. Annie soon realizes that Mrs. X's own cruel treatment of her is due to Mrs. X's growing frustrations from her dysfunctional marriage.

Things take a turn for the worse during a family trip with the X's to Nantucket. She overhears Mrs. X telling a friend during a party that she has installed a "nanny cam" at their home in the city and plans to fire Annie after viewing footage showing Annie lovingly tending to Grayer (with Mrs. X grossly exaggerating her findings from the "nanny cam"). The next morning, Mr. X sexually assaults Annie just as Mrs. X enters the kitchen. She unreasonably fires Annie and sends her back to the city with her final payment of just $40.

Flying into a rage, Annie finds the "nanny cam" in the X's house and records her feelings toward the Xs. Mrs. X brings the tape to the school meeting for the Upper East Side mothers. Thinking that the tape will show Annie feeding Grayer peanut butter and jelly straight from a jar, she requests the coordinator to play it for everyone to see. All other parents in the room hear as Annie reveals the real relationship between the Xs, in the process making Mrs. X come to terms with her own reality and false happiness.

Annie reconciles with her mother and continues to date "Harvard Hottie", whose real name is revealed to be Hayden. She is temporarily living with Lynette and Calvin, and pursuing her growing interest in anthropology, much of which she learned through her time as the Xs' nanny.

A few months later, Hayden hands Annie a letter from Mrs. X. Written in the letter is an apology and news about how Mrs. X left Mr. X, is raising Grayer alone and making stronger attempts to bond with him (and successfully doing so), and Grayer's overall improvement. She expresses her gratitude to Annie for waking her up and changing her life. Also in the letter, Mrs. X addresses Annie for the first time by her real name (instead of Nanny), and signs the letter with her own first name, Alexandra (instead of Mrs. X).

####Naomi and Ely's No Kiss List####
Naomi and Ely have been best friends and neighbors in the same apartment building in New York City for years. Ely is gay, often having casual hook-ups with other guys, while Naomi is heterosexual and has recently begun dating "Bruce 2," although she has always been secretly in love with Ely.

Naomi and Ely have a "No Kiss List" where the guys on the list are forbidden to them both. In the beginning of the film, they add Gabriel, their young and handsome doorman, to the list. Everything is going well until Ely isn't always available when Naomi needs him. She has been struggling to help her mother recover from her father leaving after having an affair. Furthermore, Naomi hasn't accepted that Ely is gay; she has always fantasized about him falling in love with and marrying her one day.

Frustrated about the hopelessness of the situation, she lashes out at Ely's promiscuity. He replies that Naomi, who is still a virgin, is just taking her sexual frustration out on him.

One night, Naomi brings Ely along on a date with Bruce 2. After a fun night out, Naomi wants to go home but Ely pushes her to go home with Bruce to have sex, which she reluctantly agrees. They awkwardly make out in Bruce's dorm room until they are accidentally interrupted. A few days later, Ely discovers Bruce 2 waiting for Naomi in the hallway and offers him a drink while he waits. In Ely's bedroom, Bruce discovers his X-Men comics and they start bonding. They kiss spontaneously, but Ely immediately regrets it and apologizes.

While Naomi and Ely are shopping for Halloween costumes the next day, Ely confesses the kiss but Naomi brushes it off. She then discovers a mixtape in her mail from an admirer. While they are getting ready for the Halloween party, Bruce visits Ely, admitting he enjoyed their kiss and wants to pursue it further. Naomi arrives and Ely quickly hides Bruce in the closet while he hastens her out. He then goes back claiming he "forgot" something to tell Bruce to wait for him. Bruce agrees and gives him Orbit gum, to add to the alibi that he forgot something. Naomi remembers that Bruce 2 chews sugar free gum and Ely doesn't. She then figures out that Bruce 2 is in Ely's apartment and it wasn't just a kiss.

This results in a feud between them. She confides in her friend Robin, admitting she is more upset about Ely's betrayal than Bruce's. She then creates a list of things and places for Ely to avoid in order for them to stay away from each other. Ely breaks one of her requests, which results in another messy dispute. Naomi realizes that her dream to be with Ely will never come true.

During their time apart, Naomi grows closer to Robin and discovers that the mixtape was from Gabriel, who admits he's had a crush on her since they'd met. They slowly start a relationship and Naomi applies for a job to help her mother. She also convinces her mother to let go of her father, just as she is letting go of Ely. Naomi admits that although her life is better, she still misses her best friend and reaches out to Ely. They reconcile, Naomi finally accepting his sexuality. Ely, meanwhile, is settling down with Bruce 2. The film ends with Naomi stating that relationships and friendships are different kinds of love, but are still love and therefore, can have the same effects. She then says that everyone can have more than one special person in their life.

####Newlyweds####
The honeymoon period ends quickly for Buzzy and Katie when Buzzy's sister Linda arrives unannounced to the couples' apartment looking for a place to stay. Linda's arrival complicates Buzzy and Katie's marriage and forces both to re-evaluate their relationship. Linda has particularly come to New York to try to win back her ex-boyfriend, Miles. He originally proposed to her, but she refused. Linda pursues Miles, coerces him into meeting her for a drink. She asks him to leave his current wife and run away with her. Miles reveals his wife is now pregnant. Devastated, Linda goes off with the most random guy named Whitney at the bar. First to Buzzy and Katie's place, but Buzzy chases them both out with a baseball bat. Linda and Whitney then go back to his place. Linda steals Katie's coat and leaves it at Whitney's place. She sneaks out of Whitney's apartment early in the morning. Buzzy confesses what the two were doing.

Linda calls her ex-boyfriend back again, still looking to win him back. When Katie's ex-husband Dara returns with a borrowed vacuum cleaner, Linda totally throws herself into him. She spends the night with him as well. Buzzy sees them together and demands they break up. Buzzy hesitates to tell Katie the news. Meanwhile, Katie's own sister is staying over and Linda flees before either Katie or Marsha finds out that she was with Dara. At one point, where it seems Max is flirting with an employee at the recording studio, Marsha is furious and confronts him about it. Max has grown tired of his marriage to Marsha and wants a divorce. He drops the news over dinner at their usual spot. Max continuously tells his marital and other domestic problems to Buzzy, who just wants to train him at the gym and does not want to hear about his personal life. Buzzy finally refuses to train Max anymore, as he has made no physical improvement whatsoever. Linda dates both Miles and Dara, but she is still pining for Miles. She does have an affair with him. But he ends it. Linda has Dara for a one-night stand.

Buzzy finally drops the bomb that Linda was seeing Dara and both Katie and Marsha are livid. They both blame Buzzy for this. After all that has happened, Katie tells Buzzy she is worried that she has no idea who he really is and they got married too quickly. Katie fears that they will wind up just like Max and Marsha. Katie wants Marsha to leave, but Marsha will not. Buzzy takes Linda to the diner and gives her a considerable amount of money and advice on how to get her life together. Buzzy packs a bag and invites Katie to join him in the car. Finally, she gets in the car with Buzzy as he tells her, "We need to get as far away from our relatives as possible". They drive off.

####Next Stop Wonderland####
Two people live unlucky in love in Boston: Erin, whose activist boyfriend Sean has just walked out on their relationship to help a Native American tribe fight off a land development deal, and Alan, a plumber struggling to pay off family obligations while pursuing a career as a marine biologist. Both deal with personal and professional problems and stumble through relationships, continually crossing one another's paths without ever truly meeting and realizing how perfect they are for one another. Time and time again one almost catches the other's eye, but circumstances intervene. After a series of ups and downs  both of their budding relationships with others crash and burn, just in time for a chance meeting on the MBTA train (the Blue Line) heading to Wonderland station in Revere, Massachusetts, on the outskirts of Boston.

####Next Stop, Greenwich Village####
The film takes place in 1953. Larry Lipinsky is a 22-year old Jewish man from Brownsville in Brooklyn, New York, with dreams of stardom. He moves to Greenwich Village, much to the chagrin of his extremely overprotective mother. Larry ends up hanging out with an eccentric bunch of characters while waiting for his big break. He has a group of tight-knit friends, which includes a wacky girl named Connie; Anita, an emotionally distraught woman who constantly contemplates suicide; Robert, a young WASP who fancies himself a poet; and Bernstein, an African-American gay man. All the while, he tries to maintain a stormy relationship with Sarah, his girlfriend. This band of outsiders becomes Larry's new family as he struggles as an actor and works toward a break in Hollywood.

####Nick & Norah's Infinite Playlist####
New Jersey teenager Nick O'Leary is a straight bass player in a queercore band that tentatively calls themselves The Jerk-Offs. Nick is heartbroken after his girlfriend Tris dumps him and continues to make "breakup" mix CDs for her. Bandmates Thom and Dev convince Nick to perform at a club and search for a secret show that legendary indie band Where's Fluffy? is performing in New York City that night.

Norah Silverberg attends Convent of the Sacred Heart, along with Tris and their mutual friend Caroline, and admires Nick's taste in music when retrieving Nick's CDs after Tris throws them out. The three girls end up at Arlene's Grocery on Manhattan's Lower East Side, where The Jerk-Offs are playing. Norah asks Nick to pretend to be her boyfriend after Tris teases her about her lack of a boyfriend. Norah kisses him, unaware that he is Tris' ex-boyfriend. Caroline gets drunk and Norah wants to take her home, but Nick's bandmates (who see Norah as a potential new girlfriend for him) offer to take Caroline home so Norah and Nick can spend time together and find the "Where's Fluffy?" show.

When Thom and Dev stop at Gray's Papaya for hot dogs, a confused Caroline escapes from Thom's van, believing they plan to sexually assault her. Nick and Norah meet up with Thom and Dev to try to find her. A confusing phone call leads them to look for her at a club where Where's Fluffy? is rumored to be playing, but with no success in finding Caroline or the band. They finally locate Caroline when she gives them clues in another phone call. A jealous Tris catches up with the group, and Nick leaves them to talk to her.

An upset Norah meets up at a club with her on-again-off-again boyfriend Tal but soon realizes that he has an ulterior motive and hopes to get a record deal with Norah's father, a famous producer, and leaves him. Nick, meanwhile, decides to confront Tris, but she pleads for a ride home and flirts with him in the car. They stop, and while Tris seductively dances in front of the car, Nick reminisces fondly about Norah and the night's events and drives away, leaving Tris behind.

Nick calls Norah, apologizing for leaving, and she agrees to meet him again. They go to Electric Lady Studios, a music studio owned by Norah's father. Norah gets Nick to play something he wrote in the studio then joins him in the recording room. They both kiss, and Nick gives Norah her first orgasm. Norah gets a text message from Caroline telling her she learned the location of the Where's Fluffy? show. When they arrive at the show, they meet Tris, who cannot understand why Nick will not take her back, and Tal, who wants the same answer from Norah. Tal starts a fight with Nick, but Thom and Dev's friend Lethario steps in and headbutts Tal. Nick and Norah share a smile and leave together. At Penn Station, Nick admits that he does not care about missing the concert, and they kiss on the escalator as the sun rises over New York City.

####Night Owls####
Kevin goes home with Madeline for a drunken one-night stand and is horrified to learn she is his boss's ex-mistress. After he catches her taking a box of sleeping pills, they slowly start to fall in love as he tries to keep her awake all night.

####No Looking Back####
Charlie Ryan (Burns) returns to his hometown after failed attempts at unmentioned endeavors in California. It becomes apparent that his mother no longer finds Charlie's Kerouac-like tendencies to be entertaining as one of her first greetings is telling Charlie she's not going to put up with his crap this time.

At first, Charlie lays low, embarrassed he's returned home empty handed and unaccomplished. Hero to most of his childhood friends, Charlie appears to be the only one who left their small east coast sea-side town after high school.  Word does soon travel instigating a visit from one of Charlie's best high school buds. Michael, (Bon Jovi) a thoroughly blue collar kind of guy, is interested in more than just saying hello after all these years. Michael's idea of catching up is letting Charlie know that Claudia and Michael are living together and are planning to be married. Although Charlie tells Michael he is okay with how things have changed, he is shocked and hurt.

Claudia (Holly), it turns out, is a waitress in the small-town luncheonette, complete with skirted pink uniforms and is Charlie's high school sweetheart, whom he left behind in the wake of an unwanted pregnancy and abortion. Charlie visits Claudia at work despite his knowledge of her relationship with Michael. Still hurt from Charlie's post-high school departure, she tells Charlie to leave her alone. Stuck there most of her life and as her 30th birthday approaches, Claudia dreams of bigger things, but is afraid to take a chance.

Other subplots surrounding the love triangle include Claudia's sister, Kelly (Britton) who still lives at home and laments the absence of quality dating material. An even sadder subplot involves Claudia and Kelly's mother (Danner) who still holds a torch for her husband/father of the girls, even though he has left them. Their mother foolishly and unrealistically maintains that her husband will return, repeating to her daughters that he has done this before and came back. Claudia's best friend (Esposito) is so lonely she is willing to throw herself at the recently singled, bald pizza guy.

Making matters worse for Claudia is Michael's desire to get married and settle down, which was discussed before Charlie's return, but is now being sought by Michael in earnest. Beaten down, free-spirit Claudia takes stock of her life and the people around her in the small town and decides she is not ready to be someone's wife, worrying that once she settled for that, it's all she would ever be. Claudia is crushed at her mother's hidden pain and the unrealistic belief that her family will be reunited.

Charlie is finally able to wear Claudia down and she leaves work early at the luncheonette to spend the night with him. Feeling nostalgic and giddy, the two declare their love for each other and begin a plan to run away together. During this conversation, Claudia tells Charlie there were complications with her abortion and is likely unable to have children. They drive to a motel, but once they are alone, both become thoughtful and somber at the potential of their future together. Meanwhile, when Claudia doesn't come home, Michael checks all their regular hang-outs, increasingly suspicious after it appears Charlie is also nowhere to be found.  When Michael checks with Claudia's best friend's house, he rebuffs her blatant attempt to seduce him.

Claudia arrives home early the next morning to Michael sitting at their kitchen table, obviously knowing where she has been and what she has done. He tells her he doesn't deserve to be treated this way and angrily tells her to leave for good.

Claudia spends several days of thinking of her life, anguishing over being stuck between Charlie who would offer her excitement, adventure and unpredictability or Michael who would offer her stability, security and a stifling predictability. She consults her mother who has finally come out of her hazy denial after receiving a call from her husband who stated he would not be calling anymore and did not want to be contacted.  Her mother tells Claudia to follow her own instincts and make herself happy.

In the last scenes, Claudia tells Charlie she has decided not to leave with him and is also not staying with Michael. She tells Charlie she needs to leave by herself and be on her own for a while. She tells Charlie that he of all people should understand that, to which he agrees. He remarks, "Good luck. Whatever it is you're looking for, I hope you find it".

Suitcase in trunk, Claudia is seen driving away out of town alone looking happily uncertain but determined to make herself happy.

####No Man of Her Own####
Card sharp "Babe" Stewart (Clark Gable) and his cronies, Kay Everly (Dorothy Mackaill), Charlie Vane (Grant Mitchell), and Vargas (Paul Ellis), cheat an unsuspecting Mr Morton (Walter Walker) at poker. Afterward, when Babe breaks up with his girlfriend Kay, she threatens to turn him in to the police, but he is not worried. Police officer "Dickie" Collins (J. Farrell MacDonald), who has been following Babe, then drops in to inform him that he has told Morton the truth. Worried, Babe decides to leave New York City for a while. He chooses the small town of Glendale, purely by chance.

There he meets librarian Connie Randall (Carole Lombard), who is bored to death of Glendale, and tries to get better acquainted with her. She plays hard to get, figuring it is the best way to interest someone as experienced as Babe, but finds it difficult to hide her attraction to him. When he is ready to return to New York, she appeals to the gambler in him, getting him to flip a coin to decide whether or not to get married. The coin comes up heads, and they do get married.

Babe continues his cheating ways, while letting Connie think that he has a regular job. To fill the daytime hours when he is supposedly at his job, he persuades a friend to let him work as a stock broker. He turns out to be good at it. Connie does not suspect anything until she sees Babe hide a stacked deck of cards in a secret compartment in the side of their card table prior to a fixed game one evening. She shuffles the cards and puts them back without anybody noticing. Babe and his confederates lose thousands of dollars as a result.

Afterwards, Babe is surprised when Connie is willing to stay with him, even knowing what he does for a living. He decides to take a trip to South America with Vane and Vargas, but without her. At the last minute, he realizes that he loves her, so he does not board the ship. Instead, he tells Collins to charge him with something, and, in return for a confession, he will serve 90 days in jail to pay for his past misdeeds and "come clean". However, in order to keep Connie from discovering that he is in jail, he gets Vargas to send weekly cablegrams in his name to her from South America.

A pregnant Connie receives a visit from Kay just before Babe's "return" from his travels. Kay starts to tell Connie about her husband's shady past, but is surprised to find that Connie already knows and still loves Babe. After informing Connie that Babe is in jail, Kay gives up trying to get Babe back and wishes Connie luck. When Babe gets out of jail, he purchases some South American "souvenirs", including a caged bird, from a local shop before he comes home to Connie. She asks him to tell her about where he has been. The film ends with Babe describing his fictional voyage to South America.

####No More Orchids####
The departure of an ocean liner is held up to wait for spoiled heiress Anne Holt (Carole Lombard). Tony Gage (Lyle Talbot) expresses his contempt of her inconsiderate behavior to a fellow passenger, who agrees with him, even though she is the woman's paternal grandmother, Gran Holt (Louise Closser Hale). During the voyage, Anne and Tony become acquainted and fall in love, but he refuses to marry her because she is already engaged to Prince Carlos (Jameson Thomas) and because of the enormous financial gulf between them. He is too poor to even afford to buy her orchids.

Anne's father Bill (Walter Connolly) finds out and invites the man to dinner. He likes Tony very much. Eventually, Anne breaks down Tony's resistance and they become engaged.

However, there is a formidable obstacle—her grandfather Jerome Cedric (C. Aubrey Smith). He had already been foiled once before in his ambition to have royalty in the family, when his daughter married Bill against his wishes. The richest man in America, Cedric had arranged the marriage to Carlos, going so far as to finance a revolution to restore the prince to his position. When he learns of the danger to his plans, he first threatens to disinherit his granddaughter; when that does not work, he informs Anne that Bill's bank is on the verge of bankruptcy and that he will not prop it up unless she marries his choice. Heartbroken, Anne gives in and breaks off her engagement to Tony without telling him the reason.

When Bill finds out, he lies to Anne, telling her that he has found alternate financing to save the bank. He arranges an impromptu wedding for Anne and Tony. Then, he flies off in his plane, supposedly on business, but in reality to commit suicide.

####No Postage Necessary####
Brilliant computer hacker Sam Collins is on probation and barred from the internet; his parole officer is Harry. He steals from mailboxes and works at a local dessert shop with hacking cohort Stanley, now going by David and claiming to have undergone a spiritual awakening. When Sam steals a letter written by Josie to her dead Marine husband, he begins stalking her, stealing her letters, and finding the courage to introduce himself. FBI agent Ames accuses Sam of stealing Bitcoins, which were actually stolen by David, and are now lost. Sam and Josie begin to date tentatively.

When Sam hears about the job interview Harry arranges for him, he performs a social media attack to prove to his prospective employers he can tighten up their cybersecurity without having to use the Internet, which his probation terms prohibit him from doing. When Harry finds out, he scolds Sam. Ames increases pressure on Sam to relinquish the missing bitcoins, and goes on a hunt for Sam when he later finds out that his own personal bitcoin wallet has been emptied. Sam attempts to come clean to Josie. When Ames finds out that Sam has been stealing mail, he arrests Sam for the crime, interrupting his apology to Josie. Ames' departure is interrupted by the arrival of Harry and local police reinforcements, where Ames is arrested for money laundering.

Jack, Josie's father, consoles Josie, including the revelation that her letters to her late husband---all addressed to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier---were always returned, because the Tomb receives no mail, and he kept them in a special box after taking out a post office box for them to be returned. Meanwhile, Harry recommends early parole release for Sam. David, now going by his real name Stanley, hacks into the Department of Justice in order to email Harry and take the blame for Sam's mail theft. Sam visits Josie at work, but she feels violated by how Sam has hacked into her life, but tells him of her plans to move to Nashville to enroll her daughter Daisy into a special needs school. A month later, Josie receives an acceptance letter for Daisy to the school with an anonymous scholarship for Daisy's tuition and fees. Josie, Jack, and Daisy move to Nashville.

Sam interviews to enlist in the Army, offering his special computer intelligence skills, deciding to chase his dreams and while helping others. After he's accepted, he writes a letter to Josie, who smiles when receiving it, convinced that Sam is now becoming the man he wanted to be.

####No Reservations####
Kate Armstrong is the head chef at the trendy 22 Bleecker Street Restaurant in Manhattan’s West Village. She runs her kitchen at a rapid pace as she coordinates the making and preparation of all the fantastic meals, and personally displays the food to perfection on every dish.

Kate intimidates everyone around her, including her boss Paula, who sends her to therapy. She hates to leave the kitchen when a customer wants to compliment her on one of her special dishes; however, she shoots out of the kitchen in an instant when a customer insults her cooking.

When Kate's sister Christine is killed in a car accident, her nine-year-old niece, Zoe, must move in with her. Kate is devastated by her sister's death and with all of her problems, Paula decides to hire a new sous chef to join the staff, Nick Palmer, who is a rising star in his own right and could be the head chef of any restaurant he pleased. Nick, however, wants to work under Kate.

The atmosphere in the kitchen is somewhat chaotic as Kate feels increasingly threatened by Nick as time goes on due to his style of running her kitchen. He loves to listen to opera while he cooks and also make the staff laugh. Kate also finds herself strangely attracted to Nick, whose uplifting personality has not only affected her staff but Zoe as well, who has been coming to work with her and bonded with him.

With all that is happening in Kate's life, the last thing she would want is to fall in love with this man, as she has pushed away all others prior. Nevertheless, there is chemistry between them that only flourishes with their passion for cooking. Yet life hits her hard when Paula offers Nick the job of head chef, rather than Kate.

In the end, Kate allows herself to become vulnerable and tear down the walls she has built throughout her life so that she and Nick could start fresh. The movie concludes with Zoe, Nick, and Kate having opened their own bistro.

####The Noel Diary####
When popular author Jake Turner comes back home at Christmas to settle his estranged mother's estate, he discovers a diary that may hold information related to his past and that of Rachel, an interesting young woman on a journey of her own. Rachel shows up at the same time in search of information about her birth mother, Noel, who used to be Jake's nanny. Noel was 17 at the time of Rachel's birth and had to give up her child, as she could not afford to take care of her. Jake and Rachel embark on a journey together to challenge their pasts and discover a future that is totally unforeseen.

####Not Easily Broken####
Dave and Clarice Johnson have reached a breaking point in their marriage. When Clarice is injured in a car accident, her mother Mary intervenes. The obvious truth that more than just her injuries need immediate attention is exposed. Clarice begins to be treated by Julie, a physical therapist. Dave develops a friendship with Julie and her young son Bryson. The acceptance and comfort Dave finds in the two stirs his longing for a family and a passionate partner. When Bryson unexpectedly dies in a swimming accident, Dave and Julie's relationship grows closer as Clarice pulls farther away. Dave and Clarice must confront whether their marriage vows are or are not easily broken. Dave later visits Julie after she calls him, and he comforts her in her grief. They begin to kiss, but Dave realizes it is Clarice he truly wants. The couple reunites once Clarice expresses to him the reasons for her mother having such a big input in their marriage. They reunite and Dave finds out that Clarice is pregnant.

####Nothing in Common####
David Basner, a shallow, childish yuppie recently promoted at his Chicago ad agency, returns to work from a vacation. His parents have separated after 36 years of marriage and he must care for his aging, bitter father, Max, and support his emotionally fragile mother, Lorraine. His father has just been fired after 35 years in the garment industry.

Although his ex-girlfriend, Donna, is sympathetic, she tells him he ought to "grow up". David believes that if he became less child-like, his advertising work could be adversely affected.

David is developing a commercial for Colonial Airlines, owned by the rich and bullish Andrew Woolridge. A successful ad campaign would likely gain him a partnership in his company. David develops a relationship with Woolridge's daughter, Cheryl Ann Wayne. His father is well aware of his playboy nature, and is critical of his frivolous lifestyle.

His parents each begin to rely more on David. His mother needs help moving to a new apartment. His father needs to be driven to his doctor. David is awakened late one night when his mother's date ends badly, and she reveals that Max humiliated her sexually and was unfaithful. Confronting his father, he tells him, "Tomorrow I'm shooting a commercial about a family who loves each other, who cares about each other. I'm fakin' it." David becomes distracted by his attention demanding parents, which affects his work.

As a peace offering, David takes Max out to a club to hear some jazz music. He discovers that Max is severely diabetic and hasn't been following his diet. As a result, Max requires amputation of some toes and a foot. He and Lorraine discuss their life together, and she condemns him for his abuse. Privately, Max is overwhelmed with regret.

Woolridge insists that David accompany him to New York to promote the new ad campaign, which would prevent him from being present for Max's surgery. When David refuses, he loses the account. His boss Charlie is sympathetic and assures him he will intercede with Woolridge, giving David time to be with his father.

Confiding with Donna about the situation at work and his father's health problems, she gives David a sympathetic ear. He reaches out for her hand, and they show to be mutually interested again.

David brings Max home from the hospital, who tells him, "You were the last person I thought would ever come through for me." When David returns to his job, he takes him along while he shoots commercials.

####Nothing Sacred####
New York newspaper reporter Wally Cook is blamed for reporting a Harlem bootblack Ernest Walker as an African nobleman hosting a charity event. Cook claims he was unaware, but he is demoted to writing obituaries. He begs his boss Oliver Stone for another chance, and points out a story about a woman, Hazel Flagg, reportedly dying of radium poisoning. Cook is sent to the (fictional) town of Warsaw, Vermont, to interview Hazel. Cook finally locates Hazel, who is crying both because her doctor has told her that she is "not" dying and because she realizes she might be stuck in Vermont for her whole life. Unaware of this, Cook invites Hazel and her doctor to New York as guests of the "Morning Star" newspaper.

The newspaper uses her story to increase its circulation. She receives a ticker tape parade and the key to the city, and becomes an inspiration to many. She and Wally fall in love, and he asks her to marry him even though he still thinks she's dying. After a medical exam by three independent doctors, it is finally discovered that Hazel is not really dying, and city officials and Stone decide that it would be better to avoid embarrassment by having it seem that she went off to die, "like an elephant". Hazel and Wally get married and quietly set sail for the tropics.

####Notting Hill####
William Thacker owns a travel book store in Notting Hill, London. Divorced, Will shares a flat with Spike, a flaky and sloppy Welshman. One day, famous Hollywood actress Anna Scott enters the shop and buys a book. Shortly after she leaves, Will bumps into her while rounding a street corner, spilling his juice on her. He takes Anna to his flat that is directly across the street so she can change into something clean. When leaving, she impulsively kisses him.

Anna later invites him to visit her at the Ritz Hotel. Upon his arrival he is mistaken for a reporter and ushered into a press junket for her new film. When asked, he says he writes for "Horse & Hound" magazine. Anna asks to be William's date at his sister's birthday party later that evening. Though his friends and family are surprised, Anna gets on well with everyone and enjoys herself. Later, the two enter a private neighbourhood park, where Anna again kisses Will.

At a restaurant the next day, Will and Anna overhear six men at a nearby table discussing her, first praising and then disparaging her and equating actresses to prostitutes. Will confronts them, then she introduces herself and calmly insults the stunned foursome.

Anna invites Will to her hotel room, but he quickly leaves after discovering that her movie star boyfriend, Jeff King, has unexpectedly arrived from America. Over the next six months, Will's friends arrange a series of dates for him, but Will, unable to forget Anna, is uninterested in another relationship.

One day, a distraught Anna appears at Will's doorstep, needing to hide from a tabloid scandal. She apologises about King and says their relationship is over. They discover shared interests, and discuss Will's print of Marc Chagall's 1950 painting "La Mariée". They make love that night. The next morning, paparazzi, inadvertently tipped off by Spike, besiege the house and take photos of Will, Anna, and a half-dressed Spike at the front door. Furious, she blames Will and leaves.

Several seasons pass, and Will remains miserable. When he discovers Anna is back in London making a film based on a Henry James novel, something he had suggested, he visits the set unannounced. She asks him to wait until shooting is done, but he leaves after overhearing her being dismissive about him to another actor. Anna comes to the bookshop the next day, bringing a wrapped gift. Will says he overheard what she said about him to her co-star. She explains that she was merely keeping her personal life private from another actor. She proclaims that she loves him, and pleads to rekindle their relationship. Will says no, explaining he would be too hurt if she left him again.

Will meets his friends and sister at a restaurant with Anna's partly opened gift: Chagall's original "La Mariée" ("The Bride"). They half-heartedly support his decision about Anna until Spike arrives and calls him a "daft prick". Will admits his mistake, and everyone races across London to find Anna, who is holding a press conference at the Savoy Hotel. Will arrives just as her publicist answers a reporter's question and announces that Anna is taking a year off and is leaving the UK that night.

A reporter asks about the embarrassing photographs taken at Will's flat, and Anna says they are just friends. Will, again pretending to be a "Horse & Hound" reporter, asks her if she would consider being more than friends if Thacker begged her forgiveness. She says she would, then requests that the reporter repeat the question "How long do you plan to stay in England?". Smiling, she answers "indefinitely".

Anna and Will marry and she is now pregnant. They spend time in the private park that they had visited on their first date.

####Numb####
When modestly successful screenwriter Hudson Milbank descends into a strange mood in which he feels detached from the world around him and unable to connect with his surroundings, either physically or emotionally, he initially attributes it to a night of excessive cannabis use. His writing partner Tom is disturbed by the sudden change in Hudson's demeanor and urges him to seek psychiatric help.

Dr. Townsend diagnoses his condition as depersonalization disorder and prescribes various medications including Clonazepam, and when nothing seems to help Hudson consults Dr. Richmond, who also sees drugs, albeit divalproex sodium and others rather than Clonazepam, as the solution.

Hudson meets Sara, a beautiful young woman who finds him attractive and appealing and decides to introduce him to as many positive and compelling experiences as possible. Also trying to help him is yet another psychiatrist, Dr. Blaine, who initially resists his advances but ultimately has an affair with him before revealing she has serious issues of her own that require professional attention.

####The Object of My Affection####
Social worker Nina Borowski is a bright young woman living in a cozy Brooklyn apartment. Nina attends a party given by her stepsister Constance and her husband, Sidney. There Nina meets George Hanson, a young, handsome, and gay first grade teacher. Nina tells George that her stepsister is constantly trying to fix her up with somebody from higher society, completely ignoring the fact that Nina has a boyfriend, Vince. During the conversation, Nina offers George a room in her apartment as she has just heard from his boyfriend, Dr. Robert Joley, that George is looking for somewhere to live. George, not knowing about Robert's plans, is taken aback and heartbroken, and after the party the two split up. George accepts Nina's offer and moves into her apartment.

The two soon become best friends; they watch films together and go ballroom dancing. Everything is great until Nina announces that she is pregnant. Vince, the baby's father, wants to marry her, but his constant control drives Nina crazy; she leaves him and George offers to help raise her child. For some time, they live together in her apartment in Brooklyn. Everything is perfect again until Nina finds that her love for George is growing every day, especially after he tells her he had a girlfriend in high school, leading her to believe they might develop a romantic relationship.

One afternoon, George and Nina are about to have sex when George gets a phone call from Robert who tells him how much he has missed him and invites him away for the weekend. George is confused but agrees to go. Nina feels threatened and gets jealous. George and Robert do not re-establish their relationship, but George meets Paul James, a young actor, and the two are attracted to each other and have sex. Meanwhile, Nina is staying with Constance at a vacation mansion and is extremely moody. She has a horrible time and decides to head back home and asks George to return as well. Her purse is snatched on the way and a friendly police officer, Louis, gives her a ride home.

Nina decides to invite Paul and his older acting mentor with whom he lives, Rodney, for Thanksgiving after a rather prickly brunch with a late arriving George, his brother Frank and his brother's latest fiancée. After the evening winds down, Paul stays the night with George, resulting in a heated argument between George and Nina, and heartache for Rodney.

At Frank's wedding, they continue their discussion as Nina has begun to realize the reality of the situation. Nina fully explains to George her feelings for him. George, who loves Nina as his best friend, tells her that, ultimately, he wants to be with Paul. A few hours later, Nina gives birth to a beautiful girl she names Molly. Vince, ecstatic, visits her in the hospital, but when he leaves to complete paperwork, Nina and George remain alone with Molly. Nina asks George when he plans to move out to which he replies that he doesn't know. She asks him to move out of her apartment before she gets home from the hospital, stating that it would hurt her too much to have him stay any longer knowing that he doesn't love her the same way she does him.

Eight years later at George's school, everyone goes to see Molly in a musical production that George has directed. George is now the principal of the school. Nina is now in a relationship with Louis, and George is still with Paul, both of them now happy. Rodney is also there, still considered 'one of the family' by Louis and Nina. Nina, George, and young Molly (who refers to George as her "Uncle George") walk together, hand-in-hand, on their way to get coffee and talk.

####Obvious Child####
After performing a set at her regular comedy club, Donna Stern is dumped in the bathroom by her boyfriend, Ryan, who confesses he is leaving her for one of her friends. Donna tailspins into a wave of depression and later drunkenly delivers a terrible set in which she insults her ex-boyfriend. Later that night, at the bar, she meets Max, who is there with clients but who missed her set. Donna and Max have an instant connection and they end up having sex. In the morning Donna leaves Max's apartment without saying goodbye.

Several weeks after their one-night stand, Donna discovers that her breasts are sore while trying on clothes and suspects she is pregnant. A home pregnancy test later confirms this. Donna visits a Planned Parenthood clinic to schedule an abortion and discovers the only dates available are her mother's birthday and Valentine's Day; she picks Valentine's Day.

Max tracks Donna down at the bookstore where she works and they have the first of several awkward conversations. Donna then runs into Max when he stops by her mother's apartment to return a book to her mother, Nancy, who is a former professor of his. They have dinner together where Donna is prepared to tell Max about her pregnancy and impending abortion, but cannot bring herself to tell him after he makes a comment about how he wants to be a grandfather someday. He comes to Donna's comedy show, but her set is canceled and she leaves with another man, Sam. She has an awkward evening with Sam and quickly leaves. After her terrible night, Donna visits her mother to talk about her upcoming abortion. Her mother comforts her by telling her that she too had an abortion before Donna was conceived.

Donna regrets pushing Max away and leaves him several unreturned voicemails apologizing and saying she really does need to talk to him. As a final effort, she invites him to the club to see her perform. Max arrives just as she goes on stage to perform a set about how she is pregnant and will have an abortion the next day. Max leaves, but on the day of Donna's abortion, he arrives at her home with flowers and asks if he can accompany her to her procedure. While at the clinic he tells her he supports her, and that when he said that he wanted to be a grandfather, he didn’t mean tomorrow but sometime far in the future. After the abortion, Max takes Donna to his home where he makes her tea, and then they watch "Gone with the Wind" together.

####On a Clear Day You Can See Forever####
At the behest of her mainstream conservative fiancé Warren, scatterbrained five-pack-a-day chain smoker and clairvoyant Daisy Gamble attends a class taught by psychiatrist Marc Chabot for help in kicking her habit. She becomes unintentionally hypnotized and manages to convince Chabot to attempt to cure her nicotine addiction with hypnotherapy. While undergoing hypnosis, it is discovered she is the reincarnation of Lady Melinda Winifred Waine Tentrees, a seductive 19th century coquette who was born the illegitimate daughter of a kitchen maid. She acquired the paternity records of the children housed in the orphanage where her mother had to send her and used the information to blackmail their wealthy fathers. She eventually married nobleman Robert Tentrees during the period of the English Regency, then was tried for espionage and treason after he abandoned her.

As their sessions progress, complications arise when Chabot begins to fall in love with Daisy's exotic former self and Daisy begins to fall for him, and his university colleagues demand he either give up his reincarnation research or resign his position with the school. While waiting for Chabot in his office, Daisy accidentally hears a tape recording of one of her sessions and when she discovers Chabot's interest is limited to Melinda, she storms out of the office. When she returns for a final meeting with him, she mentions fourteen additional lives, including her forthcoming birth as Laura and subsequent marriage to the therapist in the year 2038.

In Daisy's life her ex-step-brother Tad shows up and she's thrilled to see him.  It's clear to see that they have an easy rapport, contrasting with Warren who never asks or listens to her opinion and often tells her what to do, what to wear, and what to say.  One day Tad is on the roof of Daisy's apartment building where she gardens and tells Warren that he thinks Daisy should marry him instead as he can make her happy and he's rich.  At the end of the film Daisy breaks up with Warren and it's implied that she  connects with Tad.

####Once Around####
The Bellas are a close-knit family of Italian-Americans living in Boston, Massachusetts. Joe, the head of the family, owns a construction company. He has been married to Marilyn for 34 years and they have three children—Renata, Tony and Jan. Jan (the youngest) is about to get married, leading introverted Renata (the eldest and only one not married) to wonder why her boyfriend Rob has not yet proposed to her. Once Rob reveals that he never plans on marrying her, she leaves him and moves back in with her parents.

Renata travels to the Caribbean, where she takes a course on selling condominiums. She meets Sam Sharpe, a highly successful Lithuanian-American salesman who makes a speech at a training seminar. They are instantly attracted to each other, and Sam accompanies her back to Boston, where Renata introduces him to her family. The chain-smoking, abrasive Sam is overly eager to please. While the majority of the Bellas give Sam a chance, Jan seems to have a particular dislike of him. This upsets Renata and the siblings' rapport becomes strained. Jan eventually apologizes and gives Renata her blessing.

Sam and Renata get married, with Sam relocating his business from New York to Boston so he can spend as much time with Renata as possible. At a memorial for Joe's late mother, Sam attempts to sing a song in her honor, but the Bellas, especially Marilyn, tell him it is highly inappropriate. Renata tells Sam he is tearing her family apart. They reconcile, and the next day Renata gives birth to their daughter. At the baptism, Sam suffers a heart attack and is rushed to the hospital.

Now in a wheelchair, Sam is welcomed home to the Bella residence to celebrate Christmas as a family. During dinner, he lights up a cigarette, which an irritated Renata throws into a glass of wine. On a frozen lake, Renata goes skating, while Sam and their daughter watch from a distance. Sam passes away while still holding his child. After the funeral, Renata mourns, but is grateful for the time they had together and for Sam changing her life for the better. Joe directs the funeral procession through several rotations on a traffic round-about, something Sam learned from his father-in-law and greatly enjoyed during his life.

####Once Upon a Honeymoon####
In the days leading up to World War II, Katie O'Hara (Ginger Rogers), an American burlesque performer masquerading as American socialite "Katherine Butt-Smith", pronounced byüt-smith, is about to marry Austrian Baron Von Luber (Walter Slezak). Foreign correspondent Pat O'Toole (Cary Grant) suspects Von Luber of being a Nazi sympathizer and tries unsuccessfully to get information from Katie by deceit, but is warned off by Von Luber.

Undaunted, O'Toole follows the couple to Prague, where O'Hara and Von Luber marry. After the German occupation of Czechoslovakia, the Von Lubers travel to Warsaw, where the Baron sells arms to Polish General Borelski (Albert Bassermann). O'Toole warns the General of the dangers of trusting in Von Luber. When the General tries the weapons he finds out he has been sold duds and plans to notify his government. When the Germans invade Poland, the weapons prove to be defective. Von Luber is arrested on suspicion but warns his young bride not to worry because no one will be able to bear witness against him. Soon after, the General is assassinated along with a young Nazi the Baron has chosen to sacrifice.  While the Baron is in jail O'Hara and O'Toole decide to flee the country. However, O'Hara has given her passport to her Jewish maid Anna, so that the woman and her two children may escape the country. O'Hara and O'Toole escape to Norway, Holland, Belgium and Paris, all of which sequentially fall to the Germans with the clandestine help of Von Luber.

In Paris, O'Hara and O'Toole go to have new passports made. They meet Gaston Le Blanc (Albert Dekker), an American counterintelligence agent posing as a photographer. LeBlanc persuades O'Hara to return to the Baron and work as a spy. Von Luber becomes suspicious due to O'Hara's persistent questioning. O'Toole agrees to broadcast pro-Nazi propaganda after the Baron threatens to turn O'Hara over to the Gestapo. O'Toole is then contacted by American counterintelligence who ask him to accept the offer and betray the Baron. When O'Hara is found with LeBlanc, who is shot by two Nazi agents, she is placed under house arrest. Anna finds her in the hotel and aids in her escape. O'Toole goes on the air, but after O'Hara shows up at the studio, he cleverly manages to make it look as if the Baron is trying to overthrow Hitler. Von Luber is arrested, and Pat and Katie sneak away.

They board a ship for America, but Katie later runs into Von Luber on board; the Baron was able to talk his way out of his troubles. Now he is on his way to the United States to continue his subversive activities. They struggle and Von Luber falls overboard. O'Hara tells O'Toole and hesitantly he agrees to tell the Captain. The Captain turns the ship around to search for Von Luber, but when O'Hara says that Von Luber cannot swim, the Captain happily turns the ship back towards America.

####One Fine Day####
Melanie Parker is an architect and divorced mother to her son, Sammy. Her day gets off to a bad start when she is late to drop him off at school, due to the forgetfulness of fellow divorced father Jack Taylor, a "New York Daily News" reporter whose daughter, Maggie, is thrust into his care that morning by his former wife who leaves to go on her honeymoon with her new husband. The children arrive just a moment too late to go on a school field trip (a Circle Line boat cruise). Their parents realize that, on top of hectically busy schedules, they must work together that day to supervise the children. In the confusion of sharing a taxi, they accidentally switch cell phones, causing each of them, all morning, to receive calls intended for the other one, which they then have to relay to the other person.

Melanie must make an architectural design presentation to an important client. Jack has to find a source for a scoop on the New York mayor's mob connections. Sammy causes havoc at Melanie's office with toy cars, causing her to trip and break her scale model display. In frustration, she takes him to a day care center (which is having a "Superhero Day"), where she coincidentally comes across Jack trying to convince Maggie to stay and behave herself. They create impromptu costumes for the children, using his imagination and her resourcefulness. She takes her model to a shop to get it quickly repaired. Having left for a meeting, she panics when she receives a phone call from Sammy about another child having a psychedelic drug. She phones Jack in desperation and asks him to pick up the children. He agrees, on the condition that she take over their care at 3:15 while he chases down a potential news source.

While in Melanie's care, Maggie goes missing from a store, and wanders some distance down a crowded midtown sidewalk. Melanie breaks down in despair at the police station, files a missing child report, and then goes to a mayoral press conference to find Jack. He is notified by the police that Maggie has been found, and makes it to the press conference just barely in time to confront the mayor with his scoop about corruption. He had earlier tracked down its source, just as she was leaving a beauty salon in a limousine. Although they have been antagonistic, Melanie and Jack work together to get the children, by taxi, to a soccer game. She insists that she will have time first to do her presentation to the new clients, despite him protesting that it will make them late for the game. She begins her pitch over drinks at the 21 Club lounge, but upon seeing Sammy in high spirits, she realizes that she cares more about him than her job. Insisting that she must leave immediately to be with him, she fully expects to be fired, but the clients are impressed.

At the game, Melanie meets her former husband, Eddie, who is a musician and who admits that he lied to Sammy about taking him fishing in the summer and that he will be going on tour as a drummer with Bruce Springsteen instead. That evening, Jack wants a reason to visit Melanie's apartment, so he takes Maggie to buy goldfish to replace the ones that were eaten earlier in the day by a cat. At Melanie's apartment, the children watch The Wizard of Oz while she and Jack share a first kiss. She goes to the bathroom to freshen up; when she returns, an exhausted Jack is asleep on the sofa. She joins him and they fall asleep together, with the children happily observing.

####The One I Love####
Married couple Ethan and Sophie see a therapist regularly. After asking them to each play a note on a piano, he identifies a disconnection in their relationship and suggests they take a weekend on a secluded estate.

Once at the estate, Sophie goes to the guest cottage and has sex with Ethan. She returns to the house to find Ethan asleep. When she mentions the sex, he says he cannot remember, so Sophie, annoyed, goes to bed alone and he sleeps in the guest cottage. During the night, Sophie joins him, apologizing for her behavior and falling asleep next to him. The next morning, she makes him eggs and bacon, which is odd, as she notedly hates it.

Ethan returns to the main house where Sophie has no memory of joining him in the guest cottage. He deduces that something unusual is going on: In the guest cottage, they each met a doppelgänger of the other, convincing enough to pass. By visiting with Sophie II, Ethan establishes the doppelgängers do not leave the guest cottage. By barging in on Sophie's session with Ethan II, he determines that the doppelgängers disappear when both spouses are in the guest cottage and the doubles are idealized versions of them. Ethan and Sophie take advantage of the circumstances, and set rules, including a rule of "no intimacy".

Ethan figures an explanation for what's going on as some of his clothing is missing, and he receives voice mails from friends and family, answering calls, made in his voice, asking about his past. Sophie starts developing feelings for Ethan II and goes to the guest cottage to seduce him. Ethan discovers this by claiming to leave, but instead enters the guest house and assumes the place of his doppelgänger. Sophie seduces the real Ethan, unbeknownst to her.

The next morning, Sophie seeks refuge with Ethan II, and Ethan I disturbs them by entering the guest cottage. As they argue, they find Sophie II and Ethan II awaiting them in the main house. The four spend the evening together, where it becomes clear that Ethan II and Sophie II know they are playing a role. Ethan II also reveals Ethan I's duplicity at the guest cottage, at which point Sophie I asks Ethan I to leave. He goes to the guest cottage and finds a computer with files for different couples that include recordings of voices, and finds one with "Ethan & Sophie" learning to imitate him and Sophie I.

Ethan I finds he is trapped in the guest house, but Sophie II lets him out. She explains that she and Ethan II must cause the visiting couple to fall out of love. Then the residing couple leave, with the visiting couple trapped within the estate. However, Ethan II has fallen in love with Sophie I and is planning to leave with her. Sophie II does not want her husband to leave with another woman. Ethan I explains this to Sophie I, but Ethan II catches the other revealing the plan.

Ethan II attempts to convince Sophie I to flee with him. When she refuses, he runs away on his own but hits an invisible barrier and collapses unconscious. Each Sophie has an opposing reaction, one distressed for Ethan II and the other smiling at Ethan I. Ethan I grabs the smiling Sophie and they leave.

Ethan and Sophie drive to the therapist's office, finding it abandoned so they head home. One morning, Ethan asks Sophie what she plans on making for breakfast. Calling back from downstairs, she replies eggs and bacon; Ethan takes a long moment to ponder this before joining her.

####One Sunday Afternoon####
Dr. Lucius Griffith "Biff" Grimes (Gary Cooper) is a small town dentist dissatisfied with his lot. Though married to the lovely and affectionate Amy Lind Grimes (Frances Fuller), Grimes still carries a torch for his former sweetheart, Virginia "Virgie" Brush Barnstead (Fay Wray). Years earlier, Grimes had lost Virgie to his old friend Hugo Barnstead (Neil Hamilton), and is consumed with the desire to get even with his rival. The now-wealthy Hugo has a dental emergency and comes to see Grimes, who comes close to killing his old rival with gas. The story of their past is told in flashback while the anesthetic is taking effect.

####One Too Many Mornings####
Peter has just run away from his girlfriend of 5 years, seeking solace in his estranged friend from high school, Fischer.

Fischer lives in a church, for free, in exchange for turning off the lights and locking the doors. It's a good fit for him – he doesn't really have any aspirations beyond that. As Fischer tries to help Peter recover, Peter quickly learns that Fischer has much more serious problems of his own.

####The Only Game in Town####
Fran Walker (Dame Elizabeth Taylor) is an aging Las Vegas chorus girl. She has given her wealthy San Francisco, California-based married lover Tom Lockwood (Charles Braswell), who she has not seen in six months, ultimatum after ultimatum in leaving his wife, Fran always ending back in his arms, despite him not having succumbed to her ultimatum. Fran continually tells herself that Tom will one day come through, regardless of if she truly believes it. She, who wants to remain financially independent in asking and taking nothing from Tom in terms of financial support or lavish material gifts, only stays in Las Vegas out of inertia. Joe Grady (Warren Beatty) is a Las Vegas lounge pianist. Unlike Fran, Joe hates Las Vegas, and is trying to amass five thousand dollars, which he requires to set up a professional life as a pianist in New York City. While he outwardly states that he dabbles in gambling, he truly is an addict, he is going on the occasional gambling binge which has led to him not being able to save the money he needs to leave Las Vegas. Fran and Joe meet when she walks into Tony's, the bar where he works, for a late-night dinner. The two end up going home together that evening in their mutual attraction and in Fran's loneliness, and, able to get over their inherent differences in temperament, have what each believes will be a one-night stand. However, they end up having a no-strings relationship in each helping the other achieve his or her current life goals. This situation has the potential to fall apart either if one or the other is unable to fulfill the other's needs - Joe, who is supposed to stop Fran from falling back into Tom's arms if he doesn't come through, and Fran, who will keep and hide Joe's money so that he doesn't gamble it away until he reaches the five thousand dollar mark - or if one or the other ends up falling in love with the other.

####Only the Lonely####
Danny Muldoon, a 38-year-old Chicago policeman, lives with his overbearing Irish mother, Rose Muldoon. A lonely bachelor, he falls in love with Theresa Luna, an introverted girl who works in her father's funeral home. On their first date, they have a picnic on Comiskey Park field. Dating becomes difficult as Rose fears Theresa is trying to steal her son away.

Danny's brother Patrick tries to convince him to remain unmarried and move to Florida with their mother to take care of her; Salvatore "Sal" Buonarte, one of Danny's married friends and a fellow officer, advises him not to settle down just yet, as he did. Danny begins to feel guilty about his relationship, especially towards his mother. This leads to his interrupting dates with Theresa to check on her.

When Theresa finally meets Rose at a fancy dinner, Rose immediately begins to put her down, mocking her Sicilian and Polish heritage. Theresa stands up to her, then berates Danny for not doing so himself. After Theresa leaves, Danny scolds his mother for being so cruel, saying that her way of "telling it like it is" hurts people. He reminds her she lost a $450,000 account for his late father's company by making anti-Semitic remarks. He then tells Rose he will propose to Theresa, whether she approves or not.

Danny apologizes to Theresa, proposing to her from the bucket of a Chicago fire truck. She says yes and they are set to be married. However, even though Rose finally approves, Danny calls to check on his mother in front of Theresa on the night before the wedding. Angered that they might never be alone, she walks off. Neither of them show up for the wedding. A few weeks later, Danny's friends ask why they called off the wedding, but he gives no answer. When a friend named Doyle suddenly passes away, alone with no wife or children, Danny realizes he doesn't want to end up that way.

Finally, the day Danny and Rose are scheduled to move to Florida, Danny tells Rose that he can't let Theresa go because she's the best thing that ever happened to him. Reluctant at first, Rose finally goes to Florida without him, telling him to get married, have a family and be happy. Danny then goes to the funeral home, looking for Theresa.  However, her father tells him that she left for New York City by train. Danny contacts the railroad station manager, who stops the train at a station outside the city. There, Danny apologizes to Theresa and proclaims his love for her. He tells her that he will move to New York with her and join the NYPD. Having no more guilt about his mother, they board the train for New York to live the rest of their lives together.

Throughout the film, the Muldoons' Greek neighbor, Nick Acropolis — who has been encouraging Danny to pursue Theresa — attempts to woo Rose. She initially resists, but as she gradually softens her stance regarding Danny's relationship with Theresa, she ultimately warms to Nick, who takes Danny's place on the flight to Florida with her.

####Operator####
Joe (Martin Starr) is a programmer with a crippling anxiety problem who is unable to deal with uncertainty. At work he is tasked with creating an interactive call center answering machine that can convey empathy. Joe recruits his wife Emily (Mae Whitman) who has the perfect voice for the system. Emily works at the front desk of a swanky hotel during the day and has an uncanny ability to soothe even the most irate guests (at night she performs with a comedy group at the Neo-Futurists). After years of being happily married, the pressures of work, family, and personal growth have strained their relationship. Emily sees this as an opportunity to reinvigorate their marriage and agrees to participate. What begins as a collaboration to strengthen their relationship quickly spirals out of control. Terrified of the uncertainty in their relationship, Joe becomes obsessed with creating the “perfect” version of his wife, becoming detached from the real Emily as he spends sleepless nights programming his automated Emily to fulfill his needs for sex and companionship. While Joe is losing touch with reality, Emily is losing faith in their future together. Joe will have to relinquish control and face the uncertainties of life if he wants to save their marriage.

####The Opposite of Sex####
Sixteen-year-old Dedee Truitt runs away from home. She is pregnant by her ex-boyfriend, Randy Cates. Not revealing her pregnancy, Dedee eventually moves in with her much older half-brother Bill, a gay teacher in a conservative, suburban community in Saint Joseph County, Indiana.

Although he is living with Matt, Bill still mourns the loss of his previous partner, Tom, who died of AIDS some time ago. Bill maintains a friendship with Tom's younger sister, Lucia, who idolized her brother.

Dedee seduces Matt, then tricks him into believing he has impregnated her. They elope, leaving Bill and Lucia to track them down.

Bill and Lucia find Dedee and Matt in Los Angeles, only to discover Dedee has stolen Tom's ashes and is holding them for ransom. Randy also finds her; they inform Matt that they are taking the ashes and moving away. They escape but soon get into an argument that leads to Dedee's accidentally shooting Randy. She and Matt escape to Canada.

Lucia and Bill have a falling out after she implies that Tom died as a result of having gay sex. Despondent, she has a one-night stand with Sheriff Carl Tippett, who had previously made unsuccessful romantic overtures to her. Lucia later discovers that she is pregnant.

Bill eventually tracks down Matt and Dedee. She goes into labor and Bill accompanies her into the delivery room. After giving birth to her son, Dedee returns Tom's ashes to him, apologizing for her actions in the past year.

Dedee ends up serving time in prison, leaving her son in Bill's care while she's incarcerated. After a few months, she moves back in with him, while Matt goes traveling, and Lucia gives birth to her own child. Eventually, Dedee decides that her son would be better off with Bill, who is now dating Dedee's parole officer.

Dedee sarcastically concludes that sex is precisely the opposite of what people should want, leading as it does to kids, disease or, worst of all, relationships. At the end of the film, the vignettes of the various caring relationships among the characters show the "opposite" of superficial sexual gratification.

####The Oranges####
The story is narrated from the perspective of aspiring furniture designer Vanessa Walling, whose plan to stay at home for a few months after college has turned into years. She witnesses the heartache between her parents as their marriage falls apart. Their best friends, Terry and Cathy Ostroff, live across the street in their suburb of West Orange, New Jersey.

When the Ostroffs' prodigal 24-year-old daughter Nina returns home after a failed engagement, Vanessa is unhappy to see her back.
The mothers of both families would like to see Nina form a relationship with the Wallings' jet-setting son Toby, but Nina herself is more interested in Vanessa's father David. Cathy discovers the affair after following Nina to a motel and seeing David there as well. Thus begins the meltdown of both families.

####The Other End of the Line####
Priya Sethi (Shriya Saran) indulges her infatuation with American culture by working nights at a call center in Mumbai. Speaking in a perfect American English accent, she tells her customers her name is "Jennifer David" and a native of San Francisco. Her conservative father, Rajeev (Anupam Kher), is unhappy that she is so eager to forsake her own culture for another, but will be pleased when she goes through with her arranged marriage to wealthy but childish Vikram.

Priya, posing as Jennifer David, happens to call the handsome and charming Granger Woodruff (Jesse Metcalfe) to help him with the fraudulent charges on his credit card. Priya and Granger have an instant connection over the phone. Unable to suppress the intrigue, Priya agrees to meet Granger in San Francisco. When Priya goes to the meeting place, he doesn't recognize her. As she is attempting to check out of the hotel, they meet by chance, but Priya does not tell him that she is Jennifer. They immediately hit it off and he invites her out to dinner. Priya and Granger's relationship blossoms as they share a romantic date the following day.

However, Priya's family has arrived to bring their wayward daughter home. Granger feels guilty for having abandoned Jennifer David for Priya instead, but still doesn't know that the Priya and Jennifer are the same person.

Eventually, Priya and Granger are found out by her parents and he learns that Priya is actually Jennifer David, and also that she is engaged to Vikram. He is angry that she deceived him, and decides to cut their ties. All of Priya's family is happy for the relationship to have ended, except for her 80-year-old aunt who advises her that life is too short to live to make only others happy. Priya goes to Granger's hotel but is shattered when she finds his previous girlfriend Emory in the hotel room with him.

Back in India, Priya can't bring herself to accept a lackluster life with Vikram. As she struggles to disengage without hurting, her father stands up for her, points out that whenever she enters a room, people smile, and that he loves her.

Granger, too, feels something is missing. While giving the traditional best man's toast at a wedding, he quotes the groom, his childhood best friend: "Nothing should ever hold a man back from his future." He realizes what he may still be able to save. He rushes to the airport, furiously calling the bank in Mumbai with the help of a Hindi-speaking cab driver.

Priya has thrown herself back into her work, accepting a promotion to help her coworkers become as effective as she is channeling American attitudes and accent. Just as she is counseling a young man to control his emotions to better serve the bank and its customers, Granger strides into Priya's call center and cautiously declares his devotion. With a hundred eyes on the couple, a coworker coaxes, "Kiss him! Kiss him!" They kiss for the first time to the cheers of her crew.

After her shift, the couple finds her family enjoying an open-air breakfast in their garden. Granger bravely attempts to win the approval of Priya's father by promising to honor her and her culture. Granger formally repeats his commitment to respect and care for her. Rajeev thinks this over for a few moments as the family watches him intently, and he graciously accepts the young man, welcoming him to breakfast.

####The Other Sister####
After receiving a well-earned certification from a sheltered boarding school, Carla Tate, an ambitious and mildly mentally disabled young woman, returns home to her overprotective and slightly snobby mother Elizabeth. Elizabeth seems to behave as if she is embarrassed about her youngest daughter's disability. During family discussions, Elizabeth adopts an uneasy attitude because her daughter was humiliated by those mean people as a child. Carla's father Radley is a dentist and recovering alcoholic. Carla's ambition is to seek more independence from her family by earning a diploma from a polytechnic school. When Carla meets another mentally disabled student, Daniel McMahon (nicknamed "Danny"), they become friends and soon fall in love together. Envying Danny's freedom, Carla convinces her parents she is capable of living on her own and moves into her own apartment. After a time, Carla and Danny become sexually active together.

Danny's independence is financially compromised when his wealthy and emotionally detached father abruptly stops sending subsistence money. Danny begins to realize that the independence he enjoyed comes with a staggering cost. Danny gets drunk, then seeks solace and insight (and a joyride in a vintage Ford Mustang convertible) from his landlord and friend, Ernie.

During a Christmas party at the country club, nervous about his personal lot, Danny drinks too much to build up his courage to declare his love for Carla. He also tells everyone about their first time making love. A humiliated Carla bursts into tears, screaming at everyone to stop laughing at her. Although Daniel did not intend to embarrass Carla, she nonetheless refuses to see him. Over time, Carla realizes she still loves Danny and wants to see him again despite her mother's advising her otherwise. At her older sister Caroline's wedding, Danny surprises Carla by showing up at the church and asks her to marry him, in a scene mimicking "The Graduate", the couple's favorite film, to which she accepts.

Everyone supports their wishes except Elizabeth, who is unsure Danny can take care of himself, let alone Carla. Carla angrily tells her mother that she is sick of her combination of three behaviors: dominance, negativity, and doubt. Also, Carla is sick of her mother constantly treating her like two things at once: an embarrassment and a handicap. Radley and her sisters, Heather and Caroline, support her decision, and the wedding is planned. At first, Elizabeth is determined not to attend, but Radley admonishes her. He said that he will walk Carla down the aisle. Finally, after realizing how selfish she has been behaving, Elizabeth relents. Outside the church, Danny surprises Carla with their school's marching band playing "76 Trombones" from "The Music Man", and they are chauffeured away to their honeymoon in Ernie's prized Mustang.

####Our Blushing Brides####
Fellow department store shopgirls and roommates Gerry March, Connie Blair and Franky Daniels take different paths in New York City but all seek to marry wealthy men. Connie pursues an affair with David Jardine, the youngest son of the store's owner. Franky meets the slick-talking Marty Sanderson when he comes into the store to buy $500 worth of blankets. However, when he comes to meet Franky, he makes advances toward Gerry instead.

Gerry has been constantly courted by the dashing Tony Jardine, the older son of the store owner. He is used to having his way, but when he invites only Gerry to visit his estate, Gerry, who believes that virtue will be her only reward, rebuffs Tony and intimates that he is childish.

Franky falls in love with Marty, who spoils her with diamonds and silk. Gerry is suspicious, especially when she finds them both drunk. The girls do not know that Sanderson is the leader of a criminal gang that steals from department stores such as the one where the women work. The police arrive to apprehend Franky, believing that she is a member of the gang, but she knows nothing of it.

Connie is very happy with David and intends to marry him. However, she reads in the newspaper that David intends to marry the high-society Evelyn Woodforth. She listens to the wedding reception as it is broadcast on the radio and ingests poison in a suicide attempt. Gerry finds her and then asks Tony to persuade David to leave the reception to visit Connie.

In a contentious conversation, Tony forces David to visit Connie, a selfless act that attracts Gerry and convinces her that Tony is a good man. However, despite David's visit, Connie dies.

####Outsourced####
Todd Anderson (Josh Hamilton), a salesman for a Seattle novelty products company, learns he has to travel to India when his department is outsourced. Todd is not happy but when his boss Dave informs him that quitting would mean losing his stock options, he goes to train his Indian replacement Puro (Asif Basra).

When he arrives, Todd is frustrated with everything in the country where people call him "Mr. Toad". He has difficulty making the call center employees of Gharapuri understand what their American customers expect. He feels that he is never going to get the Minutes-per-Incident (MPI) under six minutes and so will never get to return to the USA.

Todd experiences the festival of Holi and with it, a sense of calm. At the call center the MPI slowly improves. He recognizes a leader in an employee Asha (Ayesha Dharker) and offers her the job of assisting Puro when Todd leaves. Todd tries to improve the workplace experience for the employees; when they tell him they would like some of the products they are selling, he decides to implement a rewards program and asks Dave for a shipment. Dave initially refuses, but when Todd manages to convince him that he is opening the products to a market of a billion people, Dave agrees to ship them overnight.

Asha realizes that the shipment has gone to another Gharapuri, an island. They both reach the island and get the shipment, but the boat that was supposed to ferry them back catches fire. With no resort, they check into a hotel, where Asha accuses Todd of being frivolous with Kali. They argue but end up having sex. Upon their return Asha informs Todd that she has been engaged to a family friend named Ashok since she was four years old. She says their affair could be only a "Holiday in Goa", a term for a short time spent with a lover before marrying another. Todd is confused but accepts the situation.

The call center MPI is nearing six when Dave calls to let Todd know that he needs to be picked up from the railway station. When Dave arrives, the power shuts down due to flooding, but the employees manage to set up their workstations on the roof and resume business. Dave is impressed, but when the employees go to the local bar to celebrate, Dave informs Todd the business is being shifted to China.

Todd informs the employees they have been fired, and Dave is erasing all data off their hard disks. Asha tells Todd that she has been writing a novel on her work computer called "Holiday in Goa" that needs to be saved. Todd gets the hint and they leave for Gaurav's (another employee's) house, where they spend time together. Todd refuses to go to China but suggests Puro as a replacement. Puro is seen leaving for China with his new wife.

Upon his return to the United States, Todd receives a phone call from Asha just as the screen turns black and the end credits roll.

####Paper Heart####
"Will I ever find love" is her question, and Charlyne Yi embarks on a quest across America to answer, what is love. She and her good friend (and director) Nick search for answers and advice about love.

Charlyne asks people on the street, regular folks, her famous (and not) friends like Seth Rogen, Demetri Martin, bikers, romance novelists, kids and even scientists or other 'experts' of love. They each offer diverse views on modern romance, as well as various answers to the age-old question: does true love really exist?

Shortly after filming begins, Charlyn has a "chance meeting"  with Michael Cera at a party (a fictionalised verson of himself, a part of the script). He begins to take an interest in her, and they get more comfortable with each other as the camera and director follow them around. As they go across the country, she connects with Michael and they start dating.

A docufiction, there are three actors in this film, Jake M. Johnson is the only one who plays a role (Nicholas Jasenovec, the director of this film). Yi and Cera are fictionalised versions of themselves, and all the rest are "himself" or "herself". Real couples talk about their own definitions of what love is. Here and there, there are also some stop-motion animation segments, to accompany people’s anectdotes about love.

There are flat-out documentary segments, exploring love in a wide spectrum. Interviews from around America range from innocent children, to complete theories from scientists. It's like Love 101 for Dummies, with personal interpretations from sharing their most memorable anecdotes.

In the end credits, there is a touching yet comedic love song performed by Charlyne Yi, and a little stinger to finalize.

####Paper Towns####
Quentin "Q" Jacobsen lives across the street from Margo Roth Spiegelman in Jefferson Park, a subdivision of Orlando, Florida. She is a childhood friend from whom he has drifted over nine years after they discovered the corpse of a local lawyer, Robert Joyner, who killed himself after his divorce. Unbeknownst to Margo, Quentin has been infatuated with her since they became neighbors. After reaching adolescence, Margo becomes one of the popular girls, with an adventurous reputation, at Jefferson Park High School.Efn|name=fn2|In John Green's novel, it is Winter Park High School, but in the film adaptation, it is Jefferson Park High School. In contrast, Quentin is kind and unassertive, but unpopular among his peers. His friends are other outcasts, Benjamin "Ben" Starling, and Marcus "Radar" Lincoln.

One night, Margo climbs through Quentin's window and recruits him for an all-night, revenge road trip. Margo discovers that her boyfriend, Jason "Jase" Worthington, was unfaithful (having sex) with one of her friends, Rebecca "Becca" Arrington. After buying supplies, they pull humiliating pranks on Jason and Rebecca, and their friends, including Margo's best friend, Lacey Pemberton. Margo accuses Lacey of not telling her about the affair. (It is revealed later that Lacey was  unaware of the affair until she was pranked). The event gives Quentin hope that he finally has a chance to develop a closer relationship with Margo. He begins to learn how to assert himself and to take chances.

The next day Margo does not come to school, and after a few days, some consider her missing, others just conclude she left for an undisclosed location. Margo's parents will not report her missing to the police since she has run away from home repeatedly before, and they believe their daughter will return eventually. After seeing a recently attached Woody Guthrie poster on her bedroom wall,  Quentin realizes that Margo deliberately left clues for him as to where she would be going. Benjamin and Marcus start searching for other clues in hopes of finding Margo so that Quentin can confess his feelings to her. Quentin bribes Margo's sister Ruthie so that they can look for the clues to Margo's whereabouts in her room.

When Quentin, Benjamin, and Marcus attend a party at Jason's house, Lacey argues with Rebecca over her betrayal of Margo with Jason. Because of her loyalty to Margo and her revulsion towards Rebecca and Jason's promiscuity, Lacey leaves in disgust. Quentin finds Lacey in a bathroom and gets to know her, discovering that, beneath her superficial exterior, she is an intelligent and compassionate person, and they become friends. After finding more clues, Quentin starts to put them together and is led with his friends to an old gift store at an abandoned strip mall. They find a map that Margo used, and discover that she has been hiding in Agloe, a paper town located in the State of New York. Quentin and his friends, including Marcus's girlfriend Angela, begin a two-day road trip to find Margo, hoping to be home in time for their prom after they find her. They bond on the way, as Benjamin and Lacey are going to the prom together; Marcus and Angela consummate their relationship.

When they do not find Margo where they expect her to be, Quentin stays while the others return home with his car. He finds Margo on the street and admits his affection for her, but she does not feel the same way. She ran away from home to escape her dysfunctional family life, to figure out who she is. She left the clues to let Quentin know that she is safe, not to invite him to follow her. Margo remains in Agloe. Quentin books a bus ticket home, and they share a farewell kiss. Before he leaves, Margo tells him that she has been in contact with Ruthie since leaving Orlando. Returning to Orlando, Quentin enjoys the company of his friends at the prom. After graduation, he continues spending time with them throughout the summer before they all leave for college.

####People Will Talk####
Dr. Noah Praetorius is a physician who teaches in a medical school and founded a clinic dedicated to treating patients humanely and holistically. A colleague who dislikes Praetorius's unorthodox but effective methods, Dr. Rodney Elwell, has hired a detective to investigate Praetorius. A housemaid who once worked for Praetorius reacts visibly when Elwell asks her about Praetorius's mysterious friend Mr. Shunderson, who rarely leaves Praetorius's side and has a deep, intuitive understanding of human and animal nature.

Meanwhile, student Deborah Higgins enters Praetorius's life, displaying signs of emotional distress. After she faints during a lecture, Praetorius examines her and informs her that she's pregnant. Upset by this news, "Mrs. Higgins" admits that she's not really married. She will not reveal who the unborn child’s father is, and says knowing about her condition would be too much for her own father to bear. In a hallway near Praetorius's office, she shoots herself.

After successfully operating on Deborah, Praetorius tries to calm her by telling her there was a mistake in her pregnancy test, but she has fallen in love with him, and becomes upset at her own embarrassing behavior.  She runs away from the clinic, forcing him to find her so he can tell her she really is pregnant.

Praetorius and Shunderson drive out to where Deborah and her father Arthur live, a farm owned by Arthur's brother, John.Arthur thinks that his daughter burned herself with a curling iron. Deborah and Praetorius hide Deborah's shooting incident from her father, who is a failure in life and lives unhappily as a dependent of his stingy brother. Deborah is his only pride in life, which might become intolerable for him with a baby to take care of and his daughter's reputation ruined.

While showing Praetorius the farm, Deborah admits her love for him. She also wonders why he is visiting and begins to suspect that he is attracted to her. After she seductively interrogates him, they share a passionate kiss. They soon get married, and Arthur comes to live with them. Deborah goes to the store in order to buy her husband an electric train set and a birthday cake for his birthday.A few weeks later, Deborah suggests to Noah that she may be pregnant, and he admits that she was pregnant all along.They debate over the due date of the baby. Her husband says September and she says December. She ruefully concludes that he married her out of pity, but he convinces her that he really did fall in love with her.

Elwell's detective discovers that Shunderson was once convicted of murder, and Elwell calls for a misconduct hearing against Praetorius. A photographer takes a picture of Saunderson. Saunderson confides with doctor Praetorius about the photographer. Professor Elwell pays doctor Praetorius a visit. Instead Deborah answers the door. The professor congratulates Deborah on her being newly married. He requests to meet with her husband concerning confidential information. Deborah confronts him about the vicious gossip concerning her husband.

A hearing is held regarding charges against Dr. Praetorius.  At the hearing, Praetorius explains that he started his career in a small town by opening a butcher shop as a front for his undeclared medical practice, because the people of the town didn't trust doctors. Elwell accuses Praetorius of "quackery", but Praetorius defends himself with the fact that he was a licensed practitioner, describing how he was forced to leave town after his maid discovered his medical degree.

Praetorius refuses to answer questions about Shunderson, but Shunderson explains that he served 15 years in prison for the alleged death of a man who had tried to murder him, then somehow survived being hanged after actually murdering the man, who had gone into hiding during the first trial. When he woke up, he was lying on a table in front of Praetorius, who was at that time a medical student examining what he believed was a cadaver. Praetorius kept Shunderson's survival a secret, and Shunderson became Praetorius's devoted friend. After this story is told, the chairman concludes the hearing in Praetorius's favor, and Elwell walks away alone and discredited.

Elwell had purposefully arranged for Praetorius's misconduct hearing to be scheduled for the same time as the student/faculty orchestra's concert. After the hearing and Praetorius' acquittal, the film ends with Deborah, her father, and Shunderson in the audience watching Praetorius' good friend and confidant, physics professor Lyonel Barker, play in the orchestra while Praetorius conducts it in the finale of Brahms's "Academic Festival Overture", "Gaudeamus Igitur".

####Period of Adjustment####
On Christmas Eve, two couples are experiencing a period of difficulty in their marital relationships. Newlyweds Isabel (Jane Fonda) and George Haverstick (Jim Hutton) (who had met when she was his hospital nurse), are having a problem because George has bouts of sexual performance anxiety and has quit his job without telling her. The second couple, Ralph (Anthony Franciosa) (a former Korean War buddy of George) and Dorothea Baitz (Lois Nettleton), have their problems based on the fact that he married her only for her money—and she knows it, and he dislikes her wealthy parents. The couples individually counsel each other about their insecurities, problems, and plans while drinking in the Tennessee home of one of them.

####Picnic####
In the morning of Labor Day 1955, vagrant Hal Carter arrives by freight train in a Kansas town to visit his fraternity friend Alan Benson. While staying with kindly Helen Potts, Hal also meets Alan's girlfriend, Madge Owens, Madge's sister Millie, and their mother. Alan is happy to see the "same old Hal" and shows Hal his family's sprawling grain elevator operations. Alan promises Hal a steady job as a "wheat scooper" and invites him to attend the town's Labor Day picnic.

At the picnic, Hal divides his attention between Madge, Millie, and middle-aged schoolteacher Rosemary, who has been brought to the picnic by store owner Howard Bevens. All three women end up fighting over Hal. Alan blames Hal for the mess and says he is ashamed that he brought Hal in the first place. By now a crowd is watching, and Hal flees into the darkness.

Madge follows Hal to Alan's car and gets in with him. By the river, he tells her he was sent to reform school as a boy for stealing a motorcycle and that his whole life is a failure. They kiss. Outside Madge's house, they promise to meet after she finishes work the next evening. Hal drives back to Alan's house to return the car, but Alan has called the police and wants Hal arrested. Hal flees the house in Alan's car with the police following close behind. Hal shows up at Howard's apartment, asking to spend the night there. Howard is very understanding and now has his own worries: Rosemary has begged him to marry her. Back at the Owens house, Madge and Millie cry themselves to sleep in their shared room.

The next morning, Howard comes to the Owens house, intending to tell Rosemary he wants to wait, but at the sight of him she is overjoyed, thinking he has come to take her away. Howard wordlessly goes along with the misunderstanding. As he passes Madge on the stairs, he tells her Hal is hiding in the back seat of his car. Hal is able to slip away before the other women gleefully decorate Howard's car. While Howard and Rosemary happily drive off to the Ozarks, Hal and Madge meet by a shed behind the house. He tells her that he loves her and asks her to meet him in Tulsa, where they can marry and he can get a job at a hotel as a bellhop and elevator operator. Mrs. Owens finds them by the shed and threatens to call the police. Madge and Hal embrace and kiss. Hal runs to catch a passing freight train, crying out to Madge, "You love me! You love me!" Upstairs in their room, Millie tells Madge to "do something bright" for once in her life and go to Hal. Madge packs a small suitcase and, despite her mother's tears, boards a bus for Tulsa.

####Practical Magic####
In a small Massachusetts town, the Owens family have been ostracized for over 300 years after their ancestor, Maria Owens, used witchcraft to survive an attempted execution. Heartbroken when the father of her unborn child never returned to her, Maria cast a spell to prevent herself from ever falling in love again. The spell developed into a curse upon Maria's descendants, bringing death to any man an Owens woman loves.

Young Gillian and Sally Owens are taken in by their aunts, Frances and Jet, after both their parents succumb to the Owens curse. The sisters endure harsh bullying by the local children. After witnessing their aunts cast a love spell for a woman infatuated with a married man, Sally casts a spell on herself to ensure she will only fall in love with a man who possesses certain impossible traits, with the goal that she will never fall in love. Meanwhile Gillian, witnessing the same incident, cannot wait to fall in love. When the girls are teens, Gillian elopes with her boyfriend and leaves for Los Angeles. Before Gillian departs, she and Sally make a blood spell to always be faithful to one another.

Gillian spends the next decade moving from relationship to relationship across the country, while back in Massachusetts, Sally meets and marries a man named Michael. They enjoy a normal life in town and have two young daughters, Kylie and Antonia. After Michael is fatally hit by a truck, Sally and her daughters go to live with the aunts. After the aunts reveal that they secretly cast a love spell on Michael & Sally so that she could marry and be happy, Sally forbids them from teaching her daughters magic.

Sally sinks into depression after Michael’s death. Sensing her pain, Gillian drives from Arizona to see Sally and they spend the night reconnecting. Gillian explains that she has become involved with an attractive yet intense man named Jimmy Angelov, whom she drugs with belladonna so she can sleep. Healed by Gillian’s visit, Sally finds strength to open the botanical shop she had planned with Michael.

Gillian suddenly calls from New York asking for help and Sally immediately goes to pick her up. The aunts take Sally's daughters to a moon festival while she's gone. After Sally finds Gillian, Jimmy holds them both hostage in his car and commands Sally to drive at gunpoint. At Gillian’s insistence, Sally sneaks belladonna into Jimmy's tequila to sedate him, but the high dosage inadvertently kills him instead. Realizing that the belladonna in Jimmy’s blood would ruin a self-defence plea, the sisters take his body back to the aunts' house intending to resurrect him with a forbidden spell. He awakens and immediately chokes Gillian. Sally kills him again, and the sisters bury his body in their garden, agreeing not to tell the aunts. The following morning the aunts return with the girls and are overjoyed at Gillian’s homecoming, but their late night celebration is interrupted by a malevolent presence they can all sense. When Sally and Gillian deny it, the aunts leave them to clean up their own mess.

The next morning, state investigator Gary Hallett arrives from Tucson, Arizona in search of Jimmy, whom Gary reveals is wanted for first degree murder. After the sisters provide no clues, Gary interviews the locals for any details about the Owens family. Sally gets frustrated and agrees to invite him for breakfast to answer his questions. Upon finding Sally's diary, Kylie and Antonia surmise that Gary is the impossible man from the childhood love spell. Afterwards, Sally breaks down and confesses to Gary in his hotel room, taking full blame for Jimmy’s death. Unable to deny their attraction, they kiss but Sally flees when she realizes Gary is the man she conjured.

Returning home, Sally discovers Jimmy's spirit has possessed Gillian's body. Gary follows her and arrives in time to see Jimmy's spirit emerge. Jimmy tries possessing Gary, but is turned aside by his silver badge. Sally tells Gary he is there because of her spell, the feelings they have for each other are not real, and the family curse will kill him if they pursue a relationship. Gary replies that curses only work if one believes in them, before returning to Tucson.

Jimmy possesses Gillian again and tries killing Sally before Frances and Jet return. Realizing she must embrace magic to save her sister, Sally asks the aid of the townswomen and they form a coven to exorcise Jimmy's spirit. Their first attempt hurts Gillian and Sally makes them stop. In a moment of inspiration, Sally re-enacts her blood pact with Gillian. Jimmy’s spirit is expelled from Gillian and the family curse is finally broken. Jimmy is sealed into the grave.

In Tucson, Gary clears the sisters of any suspicion in Jimmy's death and returns to Massachusetts to be with Sally. By Halloween, the townsfolk have finally embraced the Owens family and gather to watch the witches float down from the highest roof of their house. The film ends with Sally and Gary sharing a kiss.

####The Preacher's Wife####
A voiceover by the preacher's son  Jeremiah guides the viewer through the film.

Reverend Henry Biggs is the pastor of a small struggling African American Baptist church in a poverty-stricken neighborhood of New York City. Membership is declining, Henry is pulled in a hundred directions by his parishioners' needs, and the church's finances are in trouble. Henry is under intense pressure from real estate developer Joe Hamilton to sell the church's property so that Hamilton can build luxury condominiums on the site. Henry has also become neglectful of his wife Julia and his son Jeremiah. Julia worries that her marriage is failing. Unsure that he can make a difference in his parishioners' lives and beginning to lose his faith, Henry prays to God for help, which comes in the form of Dudley, a witty and debonair angel. Dudley tells Henry that he is an angel sent by God to help him, but Henry is deeply suspicious of Dudley. Julia, however, is instantly charmed by the handsome and unflappable angel.

With Christmas approaching, Henry's schedule becomes increasingly burdensome, and Dudley begins to spend most of his time with Julia and Jeremiah. Henry's secretary Beverly becomes comically defensive and aggressive, believing Dudley is there to take her job. Julia's wasp-tongued mother, Margueritte is also suspicious of Dudley, because she believes the newcomer will break up her daughter's marriage. Dudley and Julia go ice skating, and then later spend an evening in the jazz club where Julia once performed. After Henry confronts Dudley, Dudley realizes that he is falling in love with Julia. So, Dudley turns his attention to Hamilton and manages to disrupt his schemes to get Henry to sell the church. Henry now realizes that his family is the most important thing in his life, and he resolves to be a better husband and father. At the church's Christmas pageant, Henry finds his faith in God renewed and ties to his family restored.

With his work done, Dudley gives the Biggs family a fully decorated Christmas tree as a gift. Dudley then erases all memories of himself from everyone he has met, and although he attends morning service on Christmas Eve, no one recognizes him. However, Jeremiah, who has the faith of a child, still remembers Dudley, and wishes him a merry Christmas.

A subplot present throughout the film focuses on Julia's singing talents. Once a popular nightclub singer, she is now a star in the church choir. This subplot provides for several set pieces in which the choir performs, and Gospel music plays a significant role. It also provides comic relief in the form of a domineering choir member, played by Houston's real life mother, Cissy.

####Prime####
Rafi is a recently divorced, 37-year-old career woman from Manhattan who becomes romantically involved with David, a talented 23-year-old painter from the Upper West Side. Rafi shares all her secrets with her therapist Lisa who, unbeknownst to Rafi, is David's mother. Lisa is supportive of Rafi's relationship with a younger man before she learns who he is, discovers the connection and finds herself not only faced with the ethical and moral dilemma of counselling David's girlfriend, but also the reality that she feels differently about the relationship now that she knows her son is involved. Lisa consults her own therapist, and they decide that it is in the best interest of her patient Rafi for Lisa to continue treatment, as long as the relationship remains the "fling" it appears to be.

However, Lisa soon realizes that the relationship is serious, and tells Rafi that she is David's mother. Feeling embarrassed and betrayed, Rafi ends her treatment with Lisa. Their differences causing problems between them, Rafi and David break up. A couple of weeks later, David is enjoying a night on the town with his best friend Morris; David gets drunk and ends up sleeping with Sue, Rafi's friend from work. The same day, after bumping into each other at the supermarket and going back to David's place, David and Rafi start seeing each other again. They also try to make the relationship stronger by going to a Friday night dinner with David's family. The rift between Rafi and Lisa is patched up, although Rafi brings up the possibility of her and David having children, to which Lisa reacts strongly. A few days later, Rafi discovers that David had slept with Sue, and David and Rafi fight. After sulking for some time, David goes to seek Lisa's help as both his mother and as a therapist. She advises him to do what he can to keep the relationship, because it was through Rafi that Lisa was able to understand David's career as an artist. David goes back to Rafi to apologize and offer to give her a child because that is what she wants the most. At first, Rafi accepts his apology. They fall into bed together, and Rafi realizes how deep David's love must be for him to make such a sacrifice—he is so much younger than she is, and having a child at his age will more than likely negatively impact his art career. Somehow, she convinces him that love is not enough to keep a relationship going, and they break up.

A year later, David and Morris are seen leaving the first restaurant where he and Rafi had their first proper date. Going back to retrieve his forgotten hat, David spots Rafi but she does not see him; he gets his hat, rushes out the door, and hides. He defrosts the glass a bit to watch her, and she turns around and sees him. They share a smile before parting.

####Princess Caraboo####
In Regency England, an exotically dressed woman is found in the fields, speaking a language no-one can understand. She ends up at the home of the Worrall family, the local gentry.

Their Greek butler, Frixos, thinks the woman is a fraud from the start. Mr. Worrall sends her to the magistrate to be tried for vagrancy, but Mrs. Worrall agrees to care for her.  Mr. Gutch, a local printer and newspaper reporter, takes an interest in the case, especially after the woman claims via mime to be  Princess Caraboo.

Gutch talks to the farm workers who found her and learns she had a book from the Magdalene Hospital in London on her. When the Worralls leave on a trip the servants inspect her for a tattoo, which they believe all natives of the South Seas have and are shocked to find Princess Caraboo has one on her thigh.

Frixos tells Gutch he now thinks Princess Caraboo's a genuine princess. Mr Worrall uses her presence to recruit investors for the spice trade which will be facilitated by her when she returns to her native land. Gutch brings in Professor Wilkinson, a linguist who is initially dismissive of Caraboo's story but has enough doubt to refuse to say she is a fraud.

The local society finds Princess Caraboo fascinating, and they flock to attend parties and soirees with her. Mr. Gutch begins investigating people connected with the Magdalene House. Lady Apthorpe takes Caraboo to a ball held for the Prince Regent, who is fascinated by her.

Gutch learns Caraboo is actually Mary Baker, who worked as a servant for Mrs. Peake. He sneaks into the ball to warn her she's been found out, but she refuses to acknowledge what he tells her. Mrs. Peake comes and confronts Caraboo and identifies her as Mary Baker. She is locked up.

The local magistrate and Mr. Worrall want to hang her. Mrs. Worrall gives Mr. Gutch documents implicating her husband and the magistrate in a bank fraud. He uses these to work a trade, he will bury the story if Mary Baker can go to America. Gutch, who has fallen in love with Mary, leaves with her for the United States.

####Prom####
Nova Prescott (Aimee Teegarden) is on the prom committee with her friends Mei Kwan (Yin Chang), Ali Gomez (Janelle Ortiz), Brandon Roberts (Jonathan Keltz) and Rolo Banus (Joe Adler). Nova hopes Brandon, whom she has a crush on, will ask her to go to the prom. Lloyd Taylor (Nicholas Braun) complains to his stepsister Tess Torres (Raini Rodriguez) that he has no date. Mei discovers that she has been accepted at a different university than her boyfriend Justin Wexler (Jared Kusnitz) and worries about telling him as prom approaches. Lucas Arnaz (Nolan Sotillo) is in love with his lab partner Simone (Danielle Campbell) and turns to his friend Corey Doyle (Cameron Monaghan) to help him ask her to the prom. The only one who does not care about the prom is Jesse Richter (Thomas McDonell). He works at a local market, stocking shelves; plays truant, rides his motorcycle across the schoolyard, and behaves inappropriately. Principal Dunnan (Jere Burns) tries to talk but does not get through to him.

Meanwhile, Jordan Lundley (Kylie Bunbury) finds an earring in her boyfriend's car, Tyler Barso (DeVaughn Nixon) but he assures her that he's not cheating. To show his love, he takes her on a date in the shed where the prom decorations were stored; Tyler forgot to extinguish one candle before they left, and the shed and everything in it was burned down. With only 3 weeks left, Nova is left to manufacture replacement props alone. The principal, annoyed at Jesse's lack of respect, gives him a choice: either he helps Nova with the rebuild, or he can't graduate. Jesse accepts reluctantly, as does Nova; and realize they need each other's cooperation. While Brandon disappoints Nova by not asking her to the prom, she and Jesse grow closer, despite the fact that he finds the idea of prom ridiculous. When Nova discovers that the prom theme of the neighboring school is the same as theirs, Jesse decides to sneak into their school to check it out. However, the security guard notices them, and the police catch them after they escape. The police call Nova's parents, and when Nova's father arrives, he snaps at Jesse.

Meanwhile, Lloyd still cannot find a date and becomes frustrated. Lucas asks Simone to a barbecue hosted by his friend Tyler. Tyler tries to talk and flirt with her, but she rejects him, because he is dating Jordan. Meanwhile, the stress in Mei and Justin's relationship reaches its breaking point, and Mei cancels on Justin for fear of telling him about her acceptance. At school, Lucas blows off Corey to spend more time with Simone and invites her to study for the upcoming test with him. However, en route to the library, Simone is stopped by Tyler, who convinces her to talk with him about his feelings. Jordan sees the two talking and immediately realizes the situation. After school, Nova apologizes to Jesse for her father’s behavior. Later, she brings him along as she goes dress shopping, for a second opinion. Back at school, Simone apologizes to Lucas for having ditched him. She has a surprise, tickets to a concert, where Stick Hippo (his and Corey's favorite band) is opening. Lucas wants to take Simone instead of Corey, much to his dismay. Jordan dumps Tyler for his unfaithfulness and decides to go to prom alone. This prompts him to ask Simone to prom, which is the same night as the concert, and she agrees. Simone tells Lucas that she cannot attend the concert.

Mei apologizes to Justin and tells him the truth, but instead of feeling hurt, he tells her he is proud of her, and agree to attend prom together. As Lloyd gets rejected by another girl, he spots Lucas sitting outside the school, looking dejected. He learns of his situation and tells Lucas his own problem. Two nights before the prom, Nova, Ali, and Mei are in Nova's room, chatting. Nova confesses to them that she has feelings for Jesse, which her father overhears. The next day, Nova's father tells Jesse he cannot ask Nova to prom, because he is "bringing her down". That afternoon, Jesse is unusually hostile towards Nova and deserts her. On prom night, Lucas climbs a tree to reach Simone's window. He tells her how he feels and begs her not to go to prom, but she does anyway. Disappointed, Lucas realizes what a bad friend he has been to Corey and offers him the other concert ticket.

At her house, Nova is heartbroken. Her father explains that he was the one who told Jesse not to ask her to prom. Angered, Nova storms out of the house. Meanwhile, at Lloyd's house, it is revealed that he is taking his sister to prom. At Jesse's house, his mother has a talk with him, and he realizes that he should still take Nova to prom. At the school, Tyler leads Simone into the building, and almost immediately abandons her. Simone finds out that it was actually Jordan who dumped Tyler, and Tyler had gone to her with no other option. As Tyler and Jordan are pronounced prom king and queen, Jordan refuses to participate in the king-and-queen dance. When Tyler asks Simone to dance, she refuses and leaves. She goes outside to wait for Lucas, and they share a dance. Nova is having a bad time, and when Ali tells her the fountain centerpiece has failed, she cannot take it anymore. As she is about to leave, she hears the fountain start again, and knows the only person who could have fixed it was Jesse. He walks up to her and asks her to prom. She agrees, and they dance followed by a kiss.

####The Puffy Chair####
The film concerns the relationships between men, women, brothers, mothers, fathers, and friends. The protagonist discovers on eBay a replica of a lounge chair that was used by his father long ago. The resulting road trip to pick up and deliver the chair as a birthday present for the father in Atlanta takes interesting twists.

####Pumpkin####
Carolyn McDuffy is a college senior beginning her last year of studies at a Southern California university. To help her sorority win a coveted award that has eluded them in the past years, she joins them in training some handicapped young adults for the Challenged Games (a fictional version of the Special Olympics).

Carolyn is paired with Jesse "Pumpkin" Romanoff, and is horrified as she has never been around challenged people. He is kind towards her and soon she finds herself developing affection towards him as he is genuine, unlike her boyfriend Kent Woodlands, and her sorority sisters, as led by Julie Thurber.

Carolyn experiences backlash and disdain about the relationship from her friends and family, including Pumpkin's own mother, Judy, despite the fact that her love has inspired him to get out of his wheelchair and become the best athlete on the team. Judy later walks into her son's room, discovering that Carolyn and Pumpkin have been sexually involved.

Pumpkin's mother accuses Carolyn of raping her son, saying she "has no idea what she has done" to him. Then she calls Carolyn's college, causing her to be kicked out of both her sorority and expelled from the university. Carolyn makes a suicide attempt by taking most of the pills and solutions from her medicine cabinet, but vomits them up.

Hearing of Carolyn's suicide attempt, the sorority convinces the university to allow her back in, and she is encouraged to attend the sorority ball with Kent; Julie feels their attendance will help the sorority secure their award. At the ball, Pumpkin and his friends crash the party to allow Pumpkin a dance with Carolyn. Kent confronts Pumpkin, punching him repeatedly, who responds by tackling Kent to the ground, temporarily knocking him unconscious.

Humiliated, Kent leaves the dance. When Carolyn tries to take Pumpkin inside to the dance, Julie and her sorority sisters block the door. She pushes her way through with Pumpkin and they dance alone. Soon, other attendees are impelled to join them on the dance floor.

Kent leaves the dance in his car, sobbing and driving erratically. He swerves to avoid a truck and plunges off a cliff with the car exploding in mid-air, crashing to the bottom. Carolyn goes to the hospital to check on Kent and finds that he is now paraplegic, though not burned from the explosion.

Kent blames Carolyn for his problems and she is left distraught. She drops out of college, swearing off Pumpkin forever. The sorority stops helping the team and their rival sorority wins the award. Carolyn enrolls at a public university, opening up to her encouraging peers.

The sorority sisters have a change of heart and show up at the Olympic event. Kent is now the coach for Pumpkin's team, becoming both a motivator and humble. Pumpkin races his rival, a bully who berates him at every chance. Pumpkin is motivated by Kent, telling him to win it for Carolyn, saying she wouldn't want him to lose. As he is running, seeing her in the stands gives him a sudden burst of energy.

Pumpkin wins the race, and at the finish line is congratulated by the sorority sisters, his mother, and Kent. Carolyn comes down to see him as his mother is hugging him. She endears him to Carolyn, finally accepting her son's progress into a man.

As Carolyn and Pumpkin walk off together, she asks him what name she should call him, and he replies that "Pumpkin will be fine." She then asks what he meant when he asked her early on in the film about the moon, wondering if the question was literal or metaphorical, to which he replies, "What?" Carolyn glances back with an ambiguous expression before continuing ahead.

####Punchline####
Steven Gold is a struggling medical student who moonlights as a stand-up comedian. It quickly becomes evident that he is lousy at the former and excels at the latter. And yet, when he is given a chance at the big time, he cracks under the pressure. Lilah is a dedicated housewife who yearns to be a comic. She has the raw talent but does not have the command of craft that Steven possesses.

At first, he doesn't give Lilah the time of day. Steven is derailed by the unexpected appearance of his father and brother, both medical professionals. Lilah's unfailing support wins Steven's affections and he teaches her the fundamentals of stand-up comedy. Lilah has spent her cookie jar money to buy jokes. Steven advises her to connect with the audience to unveil the honest humor in her life as a wife and mother. Lilah discovers her natural gift of making people laugh. An uneasy friendship develops between the two as they share the personal conflicts they must resolve: Steven's desire to make it big vs. his inability to do so and Lilah's love of comedy vs. her love for her family.

Steven, beginning to appear emotionally unstable, develops a romantic attraction to Lilah–to her dismay. Lilah struggles to remain loyal to her family and her friend, while maintaining her conviction and love of comedy. Steven mimes a painful rendition of Gene Kelly's famous dance routine from "Singin' in the Rain".

The film culminates in a competition at the "Gas Station" comedy club where Steven, Lilah and other aspiring comedians have been performing. A judges panel of television executives promise the winner a prime time opportunity and possible stardom. As they compete on stage, the characters also grapple with conflicts among their desires for success on stage, their loyalties to one another, and the expectations of their families. Pending the judges' final tally, with a note of support from her husband in her hand, and hearing Steven has only two of the five judges' votes, Lilah withdraws "in case the winner is me" and persists in leaving when the club owner reveals she was in fact the winner. She leaves with her husband who, after watching his wife do stand-up for the first time, is won over and begins suggesting ideas for her next set. The pair walk away arm in arm reminiscing about the funny and endearing sayings of their children. Inside, Steven is declared the winner of the show, which reflects Lilah's judgment and that of their competing fellow comics.

####Quality Street####
In 1805 England, eligible bachelors are scarce on Quality Street. Twenty-year-old Phoebe Throssel (Hepburn) becomes very hopeful when one of the few, Dr. Valentine Brown (Tone), tells her he has something important to say to her that day. Both she and her older sister Susan believe he will propose. However, he informs her that he has enlisted in the army to fight in the Napoleonic Wars. Phoebe hides her devastation so well that Dr. Brown never suspects she is deeply in love with him. She gives up hope of ever marrying. By contrast, the Throssels' servant Patty, though she is a decade older and aware she is no beauty, is confident that she will get a man.

For the next ten years, the Throssels run a school for young boys and girls. Then, with the wars over, Brown returns as a captain. When he comes to invite the sisters to a ball, he is taken aback by how much Phoebe's looks appear to have deteriorated. Hurt by this, Phoebe declines.

To lift her spirits, Phoebe sheds her drab everyday clothes and dresses up in a beautiful gown. When Brown returns unexpectedly, Patty thinks quickly and identifies her as Phoebe's niece Livy. Taken in completely, Brown invites her to the ball. She accepts, planning to make him eventually fall in love with her, then when he proposes, reject him.

At the ball, she is quickly surrounded by admirers, much to Brown's annoyance. In the days that follow, she flirts with all the men. Finally, at a party, Brown approaches Livy. To her shock, instead of asking for her hand in marriage, he merely lectures her on her behavior and reveals that he is in love with Phoebe.

The next day, the Throssels have to fend off their neighbors, the Willougbys, who suspect that Livy and Phoebe are one and the same, particularly elderly Mary Willoughby. When Brown comes calling, the Willoughbys mention their suspicions. He eventually corners Patty and gets the truth from her. With the help of the sergeant who first recruited him, he puts clothes around a large seat cushion and puts "Livy" in a carriage to return home, all in sight of the snooping neighbors. He tells the sergeant and Patty to get rid of the "niece" and not to return until much later. The couple are delighted to spend time together. Brown goes inside and embraces Phoebe.

####The Quiet Man####
In the 1920s, Sean "Trooper Thorn" Thornton, an Irish-born retired boxer, travels from Pittsburgh to his birthplace of Inisfree to purchase the old family farm.efn|The spelling of the fictional village "Inisfree" can vary in spelling in some film reviews and articles, often being cited "Innisfree". In the film, however, the public notices announcing the upcoming horse race are boldly printed "INISFREE RACE MEET". Shortly after arriving, he meets and falls in love with fiery, red-headed Mary Kate Danaher, the sister of bullying Squire "Red" Will Danaher. Will also wants to buy the old Thornton property, and is angered when the current owner, the wealthy Widow Tillane, accepts Sean's bid instead of his. Will then retaliates by refusing consent for Sean to marry his sister.

Some village residents, including Father Peter Lonergan and local matchmaker-cum-bookmaker Michaeleen Óge Flynn, efn|Michaeleen’s full name includes "Óge", which in Irish translates to "young" in English. Óge is used to distinguish between a father and his son with the same name, much in the manner that the suffixes "Sr." and "Jr." do in English. trick Will Danaher into believing that Widow Tillane will marry him if Mary Kate is no longer under his roof. He gleefully allows the marriage, but is furious upon discovering the deceit and refuses to give Mary Kate her dowry. Sean, unschooled in Irish customs, professes no interest in the dowry; but to Mary Kate, the dowry is a matter of pride and represents her personal value within the community and her independence. She insists the dowry must be received to validate their marriage, causing her and Sean to become estranged. The villagers eventually persuade Will to release Mary Kate's furniture, but Will withholds the monetary portion of the dowry.

Mary Kate believes Sean is a coward for not fighting Will. Sean goes to the local Protestant minister and fellow former boxer, the Rev. Cyril Playfair. Sean reveals he gave up boxing after accidentally killing a younger, married opponent in the ring. Mary Kate also confesses (in Irish Gaelic) her part in the quarrel to Father Lonergan, who berates her for being selfish. Mary Kate and Sean partially reconcile and share the bedroom for the first time since their marriage.

However, early the next morning, Mary Kate leaves the cottage and boards a train for Dublin, hoping the pretense of leaving will spur Sean to action. Sean soon learns from Michaeleen where she is and races on horseback to the train station where he pulls her off the train. Followed by a growing crowd of villagers, Sean forces Mary Kate to walk with him the convert|5|mi|spell=in|sigfig=1 to the Danaher farm. There, Sean confronts Will and demands the dower-money. When Will refuses, Sean throws Mary Kate back at her brother, declaring he will abide by the Irish custom of "no fortune, no marriage". The ultimatum shocks both Mary Kate and Will, who finally pays the £350 (over £17,000 in 2022). Sean immediately burns it in the boiler, abetted by Mary Kate, who proves it was about her pride and not money. She proudly leaves for home, but a humiliated Will takes a swing at Sean, only to be knocked down by Sean's defensive counter-punch.

A donnybrook ensues, then evolves into a long Homeric fistfight between Sean and Will after they insincerely agree to adhere to the Marquess of Queensberry rules. This much-anticipated match attracts more and more spectators as it continues for miles across the landscape. The fighters finally pause for a drink inside Cohan's Bar, where they begrudgingly admit a mutual respect. As they argue over who will pay for the drinks, Will tosses a brew into Sean's face. Sean punches Will, sending him crashing through the bar doors to lie unconscious in the street, ending the fight. Later, the reconciled and inebriated brothers-in-law stagger arm-in-arm back to Sean and Mary Kate's home for supper, much to Mary Kate's amusement and delight.

The next day, a humbled Will and the Widow Tillane begin their own chaperoned courtship, riding side by side in a horse-drawn jaunting car driven by Michaeleen. Sean, Mary Kate, and the villagers wave to them as they pass, before Sean and Mary Kate playfully run back to the cottage.

####Racing with the Moon####
In 1940s Mendocino County, Henry "Hopper" Nash is a small town boy who has been drafted into the U.S. Marine Corps and is about to serve overseas. He is close friends with Nicky, who is also about to be deployed. They have approximately six weeks before shipping out.

Henry and Nicky work together at the bowling alley setting pins, buffing lanes, and working the front counter. Henry sees Caddie Winger at the movie theater taking tickets. He is immediately smitten and conspires with a younger boy to give her flowers. Caddie comes to the soda shop where Henry and Nicky are hanging out. Henry jumps over the counter and pretends that he is working. He follows Caddie to her home and discovers that she lives in an elaborate mansion. He assumes that she is a "Gatsby girl" and is therefore rich. As it turns out, Caddie lives there because her mother is a maid. Later, Henry sees Caddie working at the library. He attempts to get her name but she rebuffs him. At the soda shop, Caddie sets Henry up with one of her friends. Henry meets the others at the skating rink and pretends that he knows how to skate. He ends up crashing but in doing so is able to steal some time with Caddie. She agrees to go on a date with Henry and the two quickly become an item.

Meanwhile, Nicky's girlfriend, Sally Kaiser, is pregnant with his child. He attempts to get $150 from Henry for an abortion. Henry asks Caddie, whom he assumes can easily afford it. Caddie, in an effort to avoid letting Henry down, attempts to steal a pearl necklace from Alice, a young woman who lives at the house at which Caddie resides. She is caught and confesses the reason she needs the necklace. She ends up borrowing the money from Alice. Sally has the abortion and Henry berates Nicky for not being there for his girlfriend. This causes a brief rift that is mended when each realizes that they need each other in order to handle the difficult transition they are about to make. Henry and Caddie also briefly fall out due to the misunderstanding of her status but reconcile and have an emotional goodbye before he leaves.

Ultimately the boys prepare to get on the train taking them away to the war, they wait for it to go by before racing after it and jumping on.

####Raising Helen####
Helen, Jenny and Lindsay Harris are close sisters living in New York; the eldest Jenny raised the other two after their mother died when they were young. Jenny and Lindsay are responsible stay-at-home mothers while Helen, an executive assistant to the CEO of one of Manhattan's most prestigious modelling agencies, enjoys a lavish, carefree lifestyle.

One morning, Helen receives a call from Jenny who tells her Lindsay and her husband Paul have died in a car accident, leaving behind their three children, 15-year-old Audrey, 10-year-old Henry, and 5-year-old Sarah. At an appointment with Lindsay's attorney, both Helen and Jenny are shocked to discover Lindsay has appointed Helen guardian of the children. Both sisters are given a letter that Lindsay had left for them.

Forced to give up her wild lifestyle and move to Queens, Helen initially struggles to raise the children on her own. As time goes by, her concentration at work begins to slip and she is fired as a result, leading her to become a receptionist at a car dealership. Helen and Jenny get into a fight about how best to raise the children and they stop talking. Things later start to improve for Helen after she begins dating Dan Parker, the children's school principal and pastor, who helps her bond with them.

Audrey starts to fall in with the wrong crowd at school and gets an older boyfriend called BZ. When she disappears after prom, Helen is forced to call Jenny for back up, too scared to take control of the situation on her own in fear that Audrey will hate her if confronted. Audrey is found at a motel with BZ, and Helen later turns the children over to Jenny's custody, much to their dismay.

Helen goes back to work and slowly returns to her previous way of living, but soon realizes she is not happy. She goes to Jenny's to take the children back, adamant she is ready to put her foot down and be a mother, but Jenny asks her to leave and think about it some more. Later that night, as Helen sits alone in the nearby park, Jenny appears and allows Helen to read her letter from Lindsay; in it, Lindsay explains she chose Helen to care for her children because their personalities are so similar and she wanted the children to have a mother figure who reminds them of her.

Finally having accepted Helen can cope, Jenny returns the children to her the following morning, and they happily begin to settle in to their new family life.

####The Ramen Girl####
Abby (Brittany Murphy) is an American girl who goes to Tokyo to be with her boyfriend, Ethan (Gabriel Mann). Ethan tells her that he has to go to Osaka on a business trip and may not be back for a while. Abby asks to go with him but Ethan refuses and breaks up with her. Abby goes to a ramen shop afterward, and the chef Maezumi (Toshiyuki Nishida) and his wife Reiko (Kimiko Yo) tell her that they are closed. Abby does not understand them as she does not speak Japanese. She starts to cry, so the chef conveys to her to sit down. He brings her a bowl of ramen, and she loves it. A small distance away, she hallucinates that the lucky cat, known as the Maneki Neko, or Beckoning Cat, gestures to her to come over. When she tries to pay for her meal, the chef and his wife refuse.

The next day she comes back and sits down at the counter. He gives her another bowl of ramen and she eats. As she eats, she breaks into uncontrollable giggles, as does another patron. The following day she returns, but is told they are out of ramen. Seeing the wife's swollen ankles, she insists on helping instead. After the night is through, she is passed out asleep in the back. They shoo her out, but as she is walking away she realizes she wants to cook ramen. Rushing back into the store, she begs him to teach her how to cook ramen. He argues, but finally gives in and tells her to come the next day at 5. She shows up late, in high heels and a dress, and is put to work scrubbing the toilet and cleaning pots and pans. In the following weeks Maezumi only gives her cleaning work in the hopes that she quits, but she comes back. After she is given work as a waitress, she wins the hearts of all who come in, including two older women who are regular customers, and a 30-ish male laborer regular who develops a crush on her.

On a rare night off, she heads to a night club with a British man named Charlie and an American woman named Gretchen whom she met earlier. The three meet Toshi Iwamoto (Sohee Park) and his friends. Abby and Toshi fall in love.

Abby learns during the Christmas week of someone named Shintaro. She sees Maezumi crying over a collection of letters and photos from Paris. His wife then tells Abby that Maezumi and Shintaro, their son, have not spoken in 5 years since Shintaro left for France.

Toshi has to go to Shanghai, China for three years. He asks Abby to come with him, but she declines, saying she can't. They share their last kiss.

Abby soon learns how to make ramen, but Maezumi insists that it has no soul. Maezumi's mother tastes her ramen and tells her, in Japanese, that she is cooking with her head; when Abby confesses that there is only pain in her heart, Maezumi's mother advises that she should put tears in her ramen, as she has no love to share. Later in the film, she is shown cooking ramen, crying. The two ladies, the 20-ish male laborer, and another 20-ish male laborer from Okinawa, taste her ramen and almost immediately become melancholic, the pain in Abby's ramen bringing out their own. Maezumi tastes it, and starts to cry, but goes upstairs to his home.

One day, Maezumi talks with a rival, who brags about his son having a master chef come to taste his ramen while ridiculing Maezumi for trying to train Abby. Maezumi, drunk, says that her ramen will receive the Master Chef's blessing, or he'll stop making ramen. The Master arrives, and tastes the young man's ramen, sampling small bits of it, very sparingly. He gives him his blessing, and goes on to Abby.

Abby has strayed from the safety of conventional ramen, and made hers with peppers, corn and tomato, a concoction she calls "Goddess Ramen". The Master says Abby's noodles are good, but he cannot give her his blessing, saying that she needs more time and restraint. Maezumi is sad to have to stop his business, but talks to Abby. He tells her about his son wanting to learn French cooking, but she does not understand. He tells her that the ramen shop needs a successor, and that she is the successor of his ramen shop. She leaves for America soon, but before that, is invited to a celebration. Maezumi gives her the lantern that had hung outside his ramen shop for 45 years, and she takes it to America with her, where it is shown a year later outside her shop in New York City, appropriately named The Ramen Girl. The shop hangs a photo of Maezumi and his wife with their son happily in Paris. Then, an employee of hers tells her about a man wanting to see her. It is Toshi.

He says he hated his job and that he decided to do what she would do: quit his job and go back to what he loved – writing music. She welcomes him to her ramen shop and they kiss.

####Reality Bites####
Four friends, recent college graduates, live together in Houston, Texas. Coffee-house guitarist Troy Dyer and budding filmmaker Lelaina Pierce are attracted to each other, although they have not acted on their feelings except for one brief, drunken encounter years ago.

Troy is floundering, having lost several minimum-wage jobs—the last of which he loses for stealing a candy bar from his employer. Lelaina was valedictorian of her university and has aspirations to become a documentarian, although initially has to settle for a position as production assistant to a rude and obnoxious TV host.

Lelaina meets Michael Grates when throwing a lit cigarette into his convertible causes him to crash into her car. They soon begin to date. He works as an executive at an MTV-like channel called In Your Face, and after seeing a documentary she has been working on, wants to get it aired on his network.

Lelaina's roommate Vickie has a series of one-night stands and short relationships with dozens of men; her promiscuity leads her to face a very real risk of contracting HIV after a former fling tests positive for the virus. Working as a sales associate for The Gap, Vickie is later promoted to manager and is content with her new job. Her friend Sammy Gray is gay; he remains celibate, not due to a fear of AIDS, but because forming a relationship would force him to come out to his conservative parents.

After an impulsive act of retribution, Lelaina loses her job, which causes some tension with her roommates. Eventually, Vickie's HIV test comes back negative and Sammy comes out to his parents (and he even starts dating) and the two manage to resume their lives.

Meanwhile, Lelaina's relationship with Michael dissolves after he helps her sell the documentary to his network, only to let them edit it into a stylized montage that compromises her artistic vision. Lelaina and Troy have a heart-to-heart which leads to them sleeping together and confessing their feelings. The morning after, he avoids her, and after a messy confrontation, leaves town. When Troy's father dies, it forces him to reevaluate his life, deciding to attempt a relationship with Lelaina.

Troy and Lelaina reunite and make amends once he returns from his father's funeral in Chicago. While we do not see what happens to Michael, during the credits there is an abrupt break where two characters, "Elaina" and "Roy", who are obvious parodies of Lelaina and Troy, have an argument about their relationship. As the "show's" credits roll, Michael's name is revealed as the creator, implying that he has turned the relationship between Lelaina and Troy into the subject of a new show on his network.

####Red Salute####
Drue Van Allen, the daughter of an American general, is in love with communist graduate student Leonard Arner. When Leonard is ejected from a college campus for speaking to the students, a newspaper photographer takes a picture of him in Drue's car and prints it on the front page. When Drue ignores her father’s advice, he tricks her into boarding an airplane bound for Mexico, supposedly to see her aunt Betty off, then locks her in.

She is stuck in Juarez with no money to get home. After a rowdy soldier, Jeff overhears a border policeman warn her not to try to cross into the US, Jeff, whom she nicknames "Uncle Sam", strikes up a conversation, telling her he thinks she should be shot. Despite their disdain for each other, they run up a large bar bill, but neither has any money. They skip out and drive away; then Drue tells him he has stolen a government car. When they reach a border crossing, Jeff tries to stop, but Drue presses the gas pedal and they speed into Texas. They manage to evade their pursuers, but crash into a tree.

They later kidnap P. J. Rooney, an easy-going, henpecked husband, to ride in his homemade trailer. He is glad to get away from his wife, Edith. They eventually con Baldy, a caretaker, into believing they are friends of his employer, Colonel Turner, and letting them stay in Turner's house. After Jeff and Drue dance, he tells her he now loves her; after thinking it over, she kisses him before they turn in for the night, in separate rooms. She later sneaks out and tries to drive away, but the authorities show up and arrest them both.

General Van Allen gets Drue out of jail. He is worried about a newspaper story reporting that Drue and Leonard are going to get married and also about information he received from an immigration official that Leonard is not a citizen, but rather a suspected "paid propagandist" in the country on a student visa. When the general realizes that Drue has feelings for Jeff, he sends for Jeff. After speaking to him informally, the general sends him down to a meeting at which Leonard is supposed to speak. Jeff pretends to have changed his opinion to get Arner to let him talk to the audience. He starts out agreeing with Leonard's position, then shows people what he really stands for. A riot breaks out, and Arner is taken into custody for deportation.

Drue realizes she is in love with Jeff. They get married and honeymoon in P.J.'s trailer.

####Remember the Night####
Lee Leander is arrested for stealing a bracelet from a New York City jewelry store. The assistant district attorney, John "Jack" Sargeant, is assigned to prosecute her. The trial begins just before Christmas, but to avoid facing a jury filled with the holiday spirit, Jack has the trial postponed on a technicality.

When he hears Lee complaining to her lawyer about spending Christmas in jail, Jack feels guilty and asks bondsman Fat Mike to post bail. Fat Mike assumes that Jack intends to seduce Lee, and after he posts bail for her, he delivers her to Jack's apartment. Discovering that Lee is a fellow Hoosier (native of Indiana), and that she has nowhere to spend Christmas, Jack offers to drop her off at her mother's house on his way to visit his own family.

On the drive, Jack gets lost in Pennsylvania and the couple spends the night parked in a field. The next morning, they are arrested by the landowner for trespassing and destruction of property, and taken to an unfriendly justice of the peace. Lee starts a fire in his wastebasket as a distraction, and the pair flees. Lee's mother, a malevolent, embittered woman, has remarried, and does not want a relationship with her daughter, whom she considers a lost cause.

Jack takes Lee home to spend Christmas with his family. She is warmly received by Jack's cousin Willie, aunt Emma, and his mother, even after Jack reveals Lee's past. On New Year's Eve, Jack kisses Lee at a barn dance, and later that night, his mother visits Lee's bedroom for a talk. She reveals that the family was poor during Jack's childhood, and that he worked hard to put himself through college and law school. She asks Lee to give Jack up, rather than jeopardize his career, and Lee agrees.

On the way back to New York via Canada (to bypass Pennsylvania), Jack tells Lee that he loves her, and tries to persuade her to jump bail, but she refuses. Back in New York, Jack tries to lose Lee's case by using harsh and aggressive questioning to force the jury to sympathize with her. Jack's boss has been alerted about the affair, and secretly listens outside the courtroom. Realizing that Jack may damage his career, Lee changes her plea to guilty. As she is led away, Jack wants to marry Lee on the spot. She refuses, saying that if he still feels the same way after she has completed her prison term and he has had time to consider his decision, they can marry. She asks that he only stand beside her and hold her hand during her sentencing, and he promises to do so.

####The Rich Are Always with Us####
New York City socialite Caroline Grannard and her wealthy stockbroker husband Greg seemingly have a happy marriage until she learns about his affair with Allison Adair. When she confronts him, he confesses he wants a divorce.

While en route to an assignment in Romania, novelist and war correspondent Julian Tierney, long in love with Caroline, meets her in Paris after her divorce is finalized and asks her to marry him. Although she insists she no longer has feelings for her ex-husband, she asks Julian for time to consider his proposal, and he departs without her.

Caroline returns to the United States and discovers Greg and Alison are expecting a baby. Malbro, who has been trying to entice Julian into a romantic relationship without much success, advises Caroline he is planning to travel to China and India in hopes of forgetting her. Caroline tells Julian she loves him as well and they spend the night together. When Allison learns about their tryst, she tries to create a scandal, implying that Caroline isn't what she seems. Allison's machinations are stopped by Malbro and Greg. On their way home, the couple become involved in a heated discussion in the car and are involved in a crash in which Allison is killed and Greg is injured severely.

When Caroline visits Greg in the hospital, he begs, "Don't leave me." His doctor tells her the hope of a reconciliation will help Greg recover faster. She tells him, "I won't leave you, Greg." When Caroline sees Julian, she tells him that she cannot leave with him because she must take care of Greg.  However, she arranges for a judge, hospitalized in a nearby room, to marry her and Julian before he departs for the Far East, and she promises to join him there once Greg has recuperated fully.

####Roll Bounce####
In 1978 Chicago, after the local roller rink the "Palisade Garden" closes down, 16-year-old Xavier "X" Smith and his friends Junior, Boo, Naps, along with his new neighbor Tori, spend their summer roller skating in the ritzy uptown rink "Sweetwater" where they are disrespected by the five-year roller disco contest champions, Sweetness and his crew, the Sweetwater Rollers. They enter the contest themselves to earn their place at the rink. Xavier reconnects with an old crush Naomi.

Xavier's home life is strained after the death of his mother, leaving his father Curtis struggling to take care of Xavier and his sister Sonya while restoring his late wife's car. Curtis finds Xavier's skating a waste of time and prefers him to be at home taking care of chores. Unbeknownst to Xavier and Sonya, Curtis lost his job as an aerospace engineer and has had to take a job as a janitor. Curtis connects with Tori's mother Vivian, who was initially hostile for Curtis taking Tori to the roller rink with Xavier without Vivian's permission. Xavier learns about his father's unemployment when he finds his car for sale and confronts him. Xavier smashes the windows of his late mother's car in a rage, before both he and Curtis break down in tears. Xavier also wrongfully lashes out at Naomi. Following days of not paying attention to his father, Xavier opens a package addressed to Curtis, which are a pair of new skates for Xavier. His current skates, a gift from his mother, have begun to break down. Curtis explains he was hurting so much from his wife's death that he neglected Xavier and Sonya, and he promises to be a more attentive father. He makes amends with Naomi as well.

At the skating competition Xavier and his team "the Garden Boys" are set to go last so the Sweetwater Rollers can steal their original song choice "Le Freak". Naps finds "Hollywood Swinging" is a suitable replacement song. For the first time in the history of the competition, the Sweetwater Rollers tie for first place with another team, the Garden Boys. Sweetness challenges Xavier to a one-on-one skate-off with no falls. Xavier throws out every move he knows and is set to win when he attempts a triple Lutz jump, but falls and loses the competition. He does, however, earn the respect of Sweetness and the audience. Xavier and Naomi share a kiss, while Junior shares one with Tori, whom he had ridiculed for having braces before she had them removed. Everyone skates together.

####Roller Boogie####
Bobby James and his friends ("Phones", "Hoppy", "Gordo", and several others) skate to work on the Venice, California boardwalk. Meanwhile, in Beverly Hills, Terry Barkley, a genius flautist is also heading towards the beach in her Excalibur Phaeton automobile. She also is joined by her snobbish girlfriend Lana.

Bobby is skating on the boardwalk with a female friend when he encounters Terry. But she remains aloof and spurns his advance. They later meet at a local roller rink called Jammer's. During a near catastrophic skating incident where Bobby saves the day, she gives in. Terry wants to pay him to teach her how to skate for the Roller Disco contest. Even though they share a flirty, romantic couples skate, later on she rebuffs him yet again.

The next day has both Terry and Bobby getting flack from their respected friends and family. She has had enough and goes to the beach. She finds Bobby there, practicing a jump and turns on the charm. He shares with her his dream to become an Olympic Roller Skater. They end up making out on the beach. Bobby asks her if she's going to pay him for sex as well, which garners a mighty slap in return and she takes off.

Terry goes home and has a row with her mother. She wants to give up her dreams of playing Classical Flute at Juilliard School and win a roller disco contest at the beach. Her mother is shocked, enough so she needs a Valium. Terry decided to run away. The next morning, she calls and invites Bobby to breakfast where she apologizes. He wants to skate with her, but on his terms: no money; he calls the shots. Through a series of outdoor scenes, we see them work together to form a routine.

Unfortunately, Jammer's is about to be sold to a ruthless mob developer. Bobby and Terry are clued into this plot and try to get her father, a lawyer, to help. But he refuses. While Terry is performing at a lush outdoor party, some of the young men sneak up, causing chaos. As a result, a group of distinguished guests falls into the swimming pool. This ruins the concert, as well as the party and its ceremonial cake. Terry gets reprimanded and slapped by her father for her running away, as well as for hanging out with her radical friends. The skaters find evidence, in the form of a cassette tape recording of the invalid ordeal, to kill the deal. Through a wild chase on the streets near the canal zone of Venice, they race to get it to the cops on time. They do, the mobsters are hauled off and the Boogie Contest is on. Terry and Bobby skate their routine and win.

Later on, back at the beach Terry and Bobby share a sad goodbye. Both promise to write each other as she heads off to New York City and he heads off to the Olympics.

####Rumor Has It####
In 1997, Sarah Huttinger, an obituary and wedding announcement writer for "The New York Times", travels to Pasadena, California, for her sister Annie's wedding, accompanied by her fiancé Jeff Daly. When Sarah tells her grandmother, Katharine Richelieu, that she is unsure about getting married, Katharine lets slip that her late daughter, Sarah's mother Jocelyn, ran off to Cabo San Lucas a week before her own wedding.

Sarah visits her mother's best friend, Aunt Mitsy, who confirms that Jocelyn spent time with their prep school classmate Beau Burroughs the week before her wedding to Sarah's father Earl, and that Beau was friends with Charles Webb, the author of the novel "The Graduate".

Jeff points out Sarah's parents were married just short of nine months before her birth, leading her to wonder if Beau might really be her biological father. Sarah also accuses her grandmother of being the inspiration for Mrs. Robinson, the older character who seduced the young man in "The Graduate", who later ran away with Mrs. Robinson's daughter.

After the wedding, Sarah decides to fly to San Francisco, where Beau, now a highly successful and very wealthy Silicon Valley Internet wizard, is giving a speech. She meets him; and he admits to sleeping with her mother and grandmother, but assures Sarah he couldn't be her father because he is sterile after having suffered blunt testicular trauma while playing a soccer game in high school. The two go out for drinks, and the following morning Sarah wakes up in Beau's bed in his Half Moon Bay homesndthe third generation in her family to have sex with Beau.

Although guilt-stricken by her behavior, Sarah allows Beau to convince her to be his date at a charity ball, where she meets Beau's son Blake. Beau explains his wife wanted a biological child and was artificially inseminated with a sperm donor to become pregnant. Mollified, Sarah kisses Beau and is caught by Jeff, who has returned to California to find her after not hearing from her since she met Beau. An argument ensues and Jeff leaves her.

Dejected, Sarah returns to visit Katharine, who flies into a rage when she learns Beau has slept with her granddaughter. The two learn Annie suffered an anxiety attack while flying to her honeymoon and wants to talk to Sarah. Sarah tells her sister about the sexual relationship three generations of Richelieu/Huttinger women have had with Beau. She reassures Annie she truly is in love with her husband, Scott, and in doing so, realizes she's ready to marry Jeff.

It is also revealed that Earl was the one who accidentally caused Beau's testicular trauma. This makes Beau somewhat nervous to be around Earl, though Katherine is quite pleased by the revelation. Earl reveals to Sarah he always knew about Jocelyn and Beau's affair. Jocelyn returned to Earl because she loved him and he was someone with whom she could build a life. On the night she returned, Sarah was conceived. This explained the slightly early timing between her parents' wedding and her own birth.

Determined to win Jeff back, Sarah returns to New York City and tells her fiancé about her feelings. They reconcile on the condition that if they ever have a daughter, she will not be allowed anywhere near Beau. The film ends with Sarah and Jeff's wedding.

####Sabrina####
Sabrina Fairchild is the young daughter of the Larrabee family's chauffeur, Thomas, and has been in love with David Larrabee all her life. David, a three-times-married, non-working playboy, has never paid romantic attention to Sabrina. Since she has lived for years on the Larrabees' Long Island, New York, estate with her father, to him she is still a child.

Eavesdropping on a party at the mansion the night before she is to leave to attend the Le Cordon Bleu cooking school in Paris, Sabrina watches, follows, and listens as David entices yet another woman into a dark and vacant indoor tennis court. Distraught, she leaves her father a suicide note and then starts all eight cars in the closed garage in order to kill herself. She is passing out from the fumes when Linus, David's older brother, opens the door, discovers her, and carries her back to her quarters above the garage when she does pass out.

After two years in Paris, Sabrina returns home an attractive, sophisticated woman. When her father is delayed from picking her up at the station, flirtatious David, passing by, offers her a lift without recognizing her. She accepts.

Once David realizes who she is, he is quickly drawn to Sabrina and invites her to join him at a party at the mansion, and then later invites her to the indoor tennis court. When Linus sees this, he fears that David's imminent marriage to Elizabeth Tyson may be endangered. If that engagement were broken it would ruin a profitable opportunity for a great corporate merger between Larrabee Industries and Elizabeth's very wealthy father's business. Instead of confronting David about his irresponsibility, Linus pretends to sympathize with him. Linus manipulates David to sit down on champagne glasses he has placed in his pockets, and David is incapacitated for a few days.

Linus now takes David's place with Sabrina on the pretext that “it’s all in the family.” Linus and Sabrina fall in love, though neither will admit it. Linus’s plan is to pretend to accompany Sabrina back to Paris on an ocean liner but then not join her on the ship, getting her away from David, the family, and the now-threatened merger. However, when Linus instead confesses these intentions to Sabrina, she is hurt but understands the logic of the tactic. She agrees to sail the next day to live in Paris, but without Linus's offered money and other inducements.

The following morning Linus has second thoughts, and decides to send David to Paris with Sabrina. This means calling off David's wedding with Elizabeth and the big Tyson deal, and Linus schedules a meeting of the Larrabee board to announce this. David doesn't sail, and enters the meeting room at the last minute. He shows that he will marry Elizabeth after all, and helps Linus recognize his own feelings for Sabrina by insulting her and letting Linus punch him in the face. Linus, who has already arranged a car and a tugboat to wait for David, assists him to rush off and joins Sabrina's ship before it leaves the harbor. Linus seeks out Sabrina on board after providing an inside-joke hint that he is there, and they sail away to Paris together.

####Sabrina####
Sabrina Fairchild is the young daughter of the Larrabee family's chauffeur, Thomas, and has been in love with David Larrabee all her life. David is a playboy, constantly falling in love, yet he has never noticed Sabrina, much to her dismay.

Sabrina travels to Paris for a fashion internship at "Vogue" and returns to the Larrabee estate as an attractive, sophisticated woman. David, after initially not recognizing her, is quickly drawn to her despite being newly engaged to Elizabeth Tyson, a doctor whose father is a business magnate.

David's workaholic elder brother Linus fears that David's imminent wedding to the very suitable Elizabeth might be endangered. If the wedding were to be canceled, so would a lucrative merger with the bride's family business, Tyson Electronics, run by her father Patrick. This could cost the Larrabee Corporation, run by Linus and his mother Maude, over a billion dollars.

After Linus manipulates David into sitting on champagne glasses in his back pocket, resulting in injuries that require David to be on painkillers, Linus redirects Sabrina's affections to himself in order to keep David's wedding on track. Sabrina falls in love with Linus, even though she quotes others as calling him "the world's only living heart donor" and someone who "thinks that morals are paintings on walls and scruples are money in Russia." In the process, Linus falls in love with Sabrina, surprising himself.

Unwilling to admit his feelings, Linus confesses his scheme to Sabrina at the last minute and sends her back to Paris. Before she gets on the plane to Paris, her father informs her that over the years of chauffeuring the father of David and Linus, the partition was always open in the car and he was able to listen to the senior Mr. Larrabee's business dealings. When Mr. Larrabee bought stock, the chauffeur would buy too, and when Mr. Larrabee sold, the chauffeur would also sell. He then reveals that this has allowed him to amass personal wealth of over $2 million, although he continued to work as a chauffeur since he had a happy home and situation for the family. He is now able to give Sabrina the life that he and her late mother dreamed of for her.

Meanwhile, Linus finally realizes his true feelings for Sabrina. He is induced to follow her to Paris by chiding from his mother and an unexpectedly grown-up and responsible David, who steps into his shoes at the Larrabee Corporation with detailed plans for the merger with Tyson. Linus arrives in Paris and reunites with Sabrina, revealing his love to her and kissing her.

####Sam the Man####
A writer having difficulty completing his second novel goes on a journey of self-discovery.

####Same Love, Same Rain####
In 1980, Jorge Pellegrini (Ricardo Darín), a young and talented Argentine writer, upon returning from a trip to Europe, is forced to write short love stories for "Cosas", a local, light-themed magazine, to aid his dire financial situation. His boss and best friend, Roberto (Eduardo Blanco), constantly censors Jorge's stories, by deciding which parts to take out or which stories not to print. Jorge's friend and mentor, Mastronardi, often visits the magazine HQ asking Roberto for work, but due to his history of courageous confrontation against the last military dictatorship in Argentina, he finds himself blacklisted and therefore cannot find work.

In the showing of a short film, based on a story by Jorge, he meets Laura (Soledad Villamil), a passionate, beautiful and charming young girl who works as a waitress in a restaurant. He is instantly smitten by her, and she gives him the custom matchbook of the restaurant she works at, saying is her card. Days after, he receives news of the death of Mastronardi, and begins to write a story about his deceased friend. However, he experiences writer's block, and cannot get around to finish it. Jorge then finds the matchbook Laura gave him and decides to go the restaurant where she is a waitress. They go on a date to a bar, and they display chemistry and understanding, and Laura reveals that she has a boyfriend, an artist on a tour in Uruguay. Things go awry when the police raid the place and take Laura and a group of people who could not show their documents to jail, to be investigated as part of the military operations to maintain the social order during Argentina's dirty war. Jorge is taken to jail himself after trying to help Laura. Upon their release, Laura and Jorge spend more and more time together, and Jorge reveals his feelings for Laura. She then tells him that she currently does not reciprocate, but she will call him if she "figures out any context" in which she could.

Months go by and Jorge buries himself in his work, starts a diary (which he then throws away) and loses hope of receiving Laura's phone call. However, she then calls him and they arrange a date, at which she reveals that she wanted to be sure of not waiting for her boyfriend anymore before starting a new relationship. They kiss, make love and start a relationship. The first months are full of romance and passion; however, when Laura decides to quit her job to work for free at a local radio station, Jorge begins to lose interest in her, and is constantly bothered by the monotony of their relationship. To make matters worse, Laura has decided to make a great writer out of Jorge, and constantly pressures him to stop writing the short and simple-minded love stories and focus on a powerful book.

When Jorge reaches the breaking point and cannot stand the current status of his relationship with Laura, he cheats on her with a girl he meets at the magazine (Carola). Laura finds out and leaves him immediately. Jorge, once again, buries himself in his work for two years, until he receives news from Roberto that, due to a new format, the magazine will no longer publish his stories. However, he is offered a job as the movie and theatre critic of the magazine, which he angrily refuses. He then finds the inspiration to finish Mastronardi's story and take it to the theatre. However, the play is a failure, and because of the effort and money he put in it, Jorge is heartbroken. Laura goes to see the play, but he avoids her. After the closing of the play, Jorge receives an emotional visit from Mastronardi's spirit in a dream, who asks him to look after his son, Sebastián.

In 1987, things have changed: Jorge has accepted the job offer as the movie and theatre critic, and Roberto is engaged to Marita, a friend of Laura's whom he met in a double date set by Jorge and Laura years before. Jorge is in a relationship with a new girl; however, he finds himself shocked when he receives news that Laura is to be married to her old boyfriend. This prompts Jorge to track Laura and, after spending a day together, they make love, and Laura then decides that she will get married anyway.

Once again, years go by, and in the 1990s, a bitter and disillusioned Jorge, still works as a critic. However, due to his failures and disappointments, and to the loss of his spirit and morals, we learn that he now asks for money in return for writing favorable reviews. This works against him when Laura, one of the producers of the movie he asked money to write a favorable review for, personally delivers him the money, and looks at him with disgust.

One day at the office, due to a disagreement, veteran political journalist Márquez (Ulises Dumont) has a heated exchange with his boss, young Micky (Rodrigo de la Serna) and is fired. This then prompts Sebastián, Mastronardi's son, to blame Jorge for his father's death. Unable to cope with guilt, and after realizing how much he has changed, Jorge attempts suicide. This attempt, however, is frustrated by Roberto, who arrives just in time to save him. After the suicide attempt, there is a surprise party, at which the employees of Cosas decide to donate one twelfth of their salaries to Márquez. Laura and Jorge meet once again, and share a long talk about their lives, hopes and crushed dreams.

The movie ends with a hint that Jorge and Laura will give their relationship one last chance. Jorge, reinvigorated, and looking like a happy man for the first time in years, watches her taxi depart with a broad smile. He is then greeted by his friends, Márquez, Sebastián and Roberto, and tells them of the new love story he is planning to write.

####Save the Date####
Sisters Sarah and Beth are in relationships with bandmates Andrew and Kevin. Beth is making plans for her wedding with Andrew. Sarah, an artist, moves in with Kevin but struggles to overcome her ambivalence.

At a performance by Kevin, Sarah is approached by Jonathan, who has a crush on her and has been hanging around the bookstore she manages. He decides to approach her but starts to withdraw when he overhears she's living with Kevin. Sarah calls him over when she spots him, but Beth's approach abruptly cuts them off.

Kevin, with a rush of adrenalin after a successful set and ignoring warnings from Andrew, proposes to Sarah from the stage. Overwhelmed, she runs out of the venue, moves out and gets her own apartment. She talks to Jonathan at the bookstore and a new relationship blossoms.

Out with Beth and friends, Sarah gets wasted so one of their friends drives her home. Unfortunately, she takes her to Kevin's, not knowing Sarah had moved. She goes in anyway, as the band is meant to be out of town. Kevin is there, as they had to cancel the tour since he is grieving. He makes a pass, but she gives him closure.

Beth, in the meantime, has become obsessive about her upcoming wedding plans, causing friction with Andrew and Sarah. Sarah feels isolated when she discovers she's pregnant, taking a test while away with Beth and their family. She then pulls away from Jonathan without explanation.

When Sarah eventually tells Beth, and she takes it as an attempt to ruin her wedding plans, as the February wedding date would be near the due date. So at Sarah's first solo show of her work, Andrew, Kevin, and Jonathan all attend, but Beth doesn't. The opening at the gallery acts as a catalyst, and all things come to a head.

Andrew gets angry at Beth for not showing up at the gallery. He wakes to find a note from Beth who is waiting for him at the synagogue. Meanwhile, Kevin shows up at Sarah's apartment and wants to date her again. Sarah rejects him, saying that she is pregnant and the child is not his. The next day Kevin beats up Jonathan at his aquarium, but later apologizes and tells him everything.

Beth and Andrew postpone their wedding. Sarah visits a clinic to get an abortion, but Beth meets her before it happens and she changes her mind. When Sarah reaches home she finds Jonathan with her cat who was missing. Kissing him, the movie ends with Sarah saying "Jonathan...".

####Saving Face####
Dr. Wilhelmina "Wil" Pang is a successful young American surgeon living in New York City. Wil is a lesbian but is closeted to her mother Hwei-Lan and her mother's friends. Wil is forced by her mother to come to a gathering at the restaurant Planet China with family friends where her mother has plans to set her up with a son of a friend, but Wil is drawn to Vivian, the daughter of one of the Chinese mothers who recently got a divorce. They run into each other at the hospital where Wil works, only to discover that Vivian's father is Wil's boss, Dr. Shing. Vivian and her father have a tense relationship since Vivian is currently pursuing her love of modern dance instead of the more respectable ballet.

Wil comes home to discover her mother has been kicked out by her grandfather for being pregnant out of wedlock, bringing shame to the family. Wil asks for the identity of the father, but Hwei-Lan refuses to answer. From then on, Hwei-Lan lives with Wil.

Vivian invites Wil to one of her dance shows and after the show, the two hang out. Vivian reveals the fact that they had met once before when they were children; Vivian kissed Wil on the nose after Wil rescued her from bullies; Wil ran away afterward. Vivian and Wil go to Vivian's apartment and the two kiss. The couple goes on several dates, but Wil is afraid of kissing Vivian in public. At Vivian's request, Wil presents Vivian to her mother as a friend so that they can meet and the three share an awkward dinner. It is revealed later that her mother knows of her homosexuality, but is in denial.

Set up by Wil, Hwei-Lan goes on several dates to find a man to be a father to her unborn child, but remains unattached. She debates on whether to accept the affections of Cho, a man who has loved her for 15 years and is willing to parent her child.

Vivian reveals to Wil that she was accepted into a prestigious ballet program in Paris and is considering the offer. Wil congratulates Vivian and gives her encouragement to accept the offer. While Vivian still debates on the offer, Vivian's father speaks to Wil and presses her to convince Vivian to accept the offer. Wil withdraws from Vivian, and Vivian accepts the job in Paris.

After Wil’s grandmother passes away unexpectedly, Hwei-Lan accepts Cho's marriage proposal. At the wedding, Wil interrupts with a love note from the father of the child saying how much he loves her and wants to marry her despite their age gap. Wil points out the elderly pharmacist, Old Yu, as the man she loves. Old Yu protests, and Little Yu, his son, stands up and announces that he is the one. Wil and her mother run out of the wedding and onto a bus, laughing. After an emotional talk with her mother, Wil rushes to the airport to catch Vivian. Wil apologizes, but Vivian challenges Wil to kiss her to prove her sincerity. Unable to publicly display her love out of fear, Wil is left at the terminal as Vivian leaves for Paris.

Three months later, Wil goes to another party at Planet China, where Hwei-Lan and Little Yu are now a couple. Wil sees Vivian, who has come to see her mother. Wil approaches Vivian and asks her to dance.  They dance and kiss. Hwei-Lan and Vivian's mother smile at each other while giving a thumbs up. Some people leave in disgust, but Wil and Vivian ignore them, while everyone else joins in to dance.

In between credits, Hwei-Lan has Wil and Vivian, family and friends over at her apartment for a function. Hwei-Lan asks Wil about having babies, to which she reacts with a spit take.

####Say Anything...####
At the end of their senior year of high school, noble underachiever Lloyd Dobler falls for valedictorian Diane Court and plans to ask her out, though they belong to different social groups.

Lloyd's parents are stationed in Germany for the Army, so he lives with his sister Constance, a single mother, and has no plans yet for his future. Diane comes from a sheltered academic upbringing, living with her doting divorced father Jim, who owns the retirement home where she works. She will take up a prestigious fellowship in England at the end of the summer.

Lloyd offers to take Diane to their graduation party. She agrees, to everyone's surprise. Their next "date" is a dinner at Diane's, where Lloyd fails to impress Jim, and the Internal Revenue Service informs the latter he is under scrutiny.

Diane introduces Lloyd to the retirement home residents and he teaches her to drive her manual transmission Ford Tempo graduation gift. They grow closer and become intimate, to her father's concern. Lloyd's musician best friend Corey, who has never gotten over her cheating ex-boyfriend, Joe, warns him to take care of Diane.

Jim urges Diane to break up with Lloyd, feeling he is not an appropriate match, and suggests she give Lloyd a pen as a parting gift. Worried about her father, Diane tells Lloyd she wants to stop seeing him and concentrate on her studies, giving him the pen. Devastated, he seeks advice from Corey, who tells him to "be a man". Meanwhile, Jim discovers his credit cards are declined as the investigation drags on.

At dawn, Lloyd plays "In Your Eyes" by Peter Gabriel, which was playing when they became intimate, on a boombox, standing under her open bedroom window. The next day, Diane meets with the IRS investigator, who says they have evidence incriminating Jim with embezzling funds from his retirement home residents. He suggests she accept the fellowship as matters with her father will worsen.

Diane finds the cash concealed at home and confronts Jim, who tells her he took it to give her financial independence. Jim feels justified in doing so as he provided better care of his residents than their families. Distraught, she reconciles with Lloyd at his kickboxing gym.

At the end of summer, Jim is incarcerated on a nine-month sentence. Lloyd visits him at the prison, saying he is going with Diane to England; Jim reacts with anger. Lloyd gives him a letter from Diane, but she arrives to say goodbye and they embrace. She gives him the pen she gave Lloyd, asking him to write to her in England. Lloyd comforts Diane, who is afraid of flying, on their flight.

####Scudda Hoo! Scudda Hay!####
Farmer Milt Dominy (Henry Hull) and his son Daniel (Lon McCallister), who is called "Snug", commiserate with each other about their loathing of Judith (Anne Revere), Milt's second wife, and her brutish son Stretch (Robert Karnes). Milt decides to return to the sea while Snug takes a job as a hired hand with a neighboring farmer, Robert "Roarer" McGill (Tom Tully), with whose daughter, Rad (June Haver), he is in love, although the daughter gets her kicks out of keeping him guessing about her true feelings. Her father neither encourages nor endorses the courtship.

Some days later, Snug offers to buy two mules, named Crowder and Moonbeam, from his boss, to add to his income. Roarer agrees but warns Snug that ownership of the mules will revert to him if Snug misses even one payment. Snug then takes Crowder and Moonbeam to Tony (Walter Brennan)'s farm, and Tony, who was once a dedicated mule driver before falling down on his luck and becoming an alcoholic. While learning about the mules, Snug also deals with Judith and Stretch, who are trying to take over the Dominy farm.

Eager to help Snug, Tony introduces him to logging foreman Mike Malone (G. Pat Collins), who offers him a well-paying job, which will start when Snug learns how to drive the mules. Tony teaches Snug the commands "scudda hoo" and "scudda hay," which mean "gee" and "haw," the teamster's commands for "right" and "left," respectively.

One day, Snug's deliberate insolence prompts Roarer to fire him, and Snug goes to work at the lumber camp. Snug intends to use his first week's pay for another installment on the mules and is devastated when Tony, who was holding the money, returns home drunk and broke. Snug begs Roarer to accept a double payment in a few days, but Roarer refuses and asks Sheriff Tod Bursom to enforce his right to reclaim the mules. Seeing this, Roarer's wife Lucy finally stands up to her overbearing husband and loans the money.

Meanwhile, Snug learns that his father has died, leaving him the Dominy farm, and Tony promises to consult Judge Stillwell about evicting Stretch and Judith. Soon after, Stretch places a wire snare in Crowder and Moonbeam's stall in an attempt to cripple them. Snug and Rad, who are out on a date, return to Tony's house and there catch Stretch as Crowder is crushing him against the barn wall. Snug rescues Stretch from Crowder then throws him off Tony's property. Later, Judge Stillwell and Sheriff Bursom evict Stretch and his mother from the Dominy farm. As Snug, Rad and Tony are riding back to Tony's, they pass Roarer, whose tractor is stuck in the mud. Snug bets Roarer that if Moonbeam and Crowder can pull the tractor free, Roarer will forget Snug's debt, but if they fail, Roarer will reassume possession of them. Snug also asks for Roarer's blessing of his marriage to Rad if he succeeds, and Roarer reluctantly agrees. Snug expertly drives the animals and soon the tractor is free. Finally, as a happy Rad joins Snug, Roarer concedes that at least the mules will still be in the family.

####Second Thoughts####
Lawyer Amy finds herself courted by two very different men: her client, a roguish street musician named Will, and her old boyfriend John Michael. A curious triangle develops as Amy gets pregnant by Will and both men vie for her affections.

####The Secret Life of Walter Mitty####
Walter Mitty (Kaye) is an "inconsequential guy from Perth Amboy, New Jersey". He is henpecked and harassed by everyone in his life including his bossy mother, his overbearing, idea-stealing boss Bruce Pierce, his dimwitted fiancée Gertrude Griswold, Gertrude's obnoxious would-be suitor Tubby Wadsworth, Gertrude's poodle Queenie and her loud-mouthed mother, Mrs. Griswold.

Walter's escape from their incessant needling is to imagine all sorts of exciting and impossible lives for himself, fueled by the pulp magazines he reads every day as an editor at the Pierce Publishing Company. But his dreams only seem to land him in more trouble. In one scene, while stoking the heating boiler, he dreams what it would be like to be an RAF fighter pilot. He is awakened from this daydream by his mother, who orders him to come to dinner. Believing he is still a British fighter pilot, he salutes, and places a red-hot poker under his arm—only to burn a hole in his suit jacket.

Things become much more complicated when he runs into a mysterious woman, Rosalind van Hoorn (Mayo), who just happens to perfectly resemble the girl of his dreams. Rosalind is working with her uncle, Peter van Hoorn, to help secure some Dutch crown jewels hidden from the Nazis during World War II. Caught up in a real-life adventure that seems unbelievable even to him, Walter attempts to hide his double life from his mundane family and friends. Eventually, he acquires the courage to stand up to those who kick him around.

####Secretary####
Lee Holloway is the socially awkward and emotionally sensitive youngest daughter of a dysfunctional family. She adjusts to normal life after having been committed to a mental hospital following an incident of severe self-harm.

Lee learns to type and applies for a job as a secretary for an eccentric yet demanding attorney, E. Edward Grey. Grey explains she is overqualified for the job (having scored higher than anyone he has ever interviewed) and that it is "very dull work" as they only use typewriters; Lee, however, agrees to work under these conditions.

Though at first Grey appears to be highly irritated by Lee's typos and other mistakes, it soon becomes apparent that he is sexually aroused by her obedient behavior. When Grey discovers her propensity for self-harm, he confronts her and commands that she never hurt herself again.

The two soon embark on a BDSM relationship from their typical employer–employee relationship. However, Lee experiences a sexual and personal awakening through the sadomasochistic sexual encounters with Grey, and she falls deeply in love with him. Conversely, Grey displays insecurity concerning his feelings for Lee, as well as shame and disgust over his sexual habits.

During this period of exploration with Grey, Lee has also been attempting to have a more conventional boyfriend in Peter, even engaging in lukewarm sex with him. After a sexual encounter in Grey's office, Grey fires Lee.

Peter then proposes to Lee, who reluctantly agrees to marry him. However, while trying on her wedding gown, she leaves and runs to Grey's office to declare her love for him.

Grey, still uncertain about their relationship, tests Lee by commanding her to sit in his chair without moving her hands or feet until he returns. Lee willingly complies, despite being forced to wet her dress since she is not allowed to use the toilet.

Hours pass, as several family members and acquaintances individually visit Lee to alternately attempt to dissuade or encourage her while Grey watches from afar, completely taken by Lee's compliance. Her refusal to leave the office draws the attention of the media, which they believe to be a hunger strike.

Three days later, Grey returns to the office and takes Lee to a room upstairs where he bathes and feeds her. The pair marry and happily continue their dominant–submissive relationship.

####See You in the Morning####
While Beth Goodwin (Alice Krige) is a happily married mother of two children, living with her pianist husband Peter (David Dukes). Psychiatrist Larry Livingstone (Jeff Bridges) is living in New York with wife Jo (Farrah Fawcett) and their two young children. Three years later, Beth's husband Peter suddenly becomes paralyzed in his hands and commits suicide, leaving Beth and the children heartbroken. Larry is abandoned by his wife and two children, who have moved to London since the split.

Larry is introduced to Beth at a party thrown by Martin (George Hearn) and Sidney (Linda Lavin), and an immediate attraction ensues. Larry is distracted, though, by the attendance of Jo, who has shown up with her new flame, actor Jack (Mark La Mura). At the end of the night, he goes home with Beth, and is welcomed by her children Cathy (Drew Barrymore) and Petey (Lukas Haas).

Even though Jo's mother Neenie (Frances Sternhagen) criticizes him for having given up on his marriage with Jo too fast, Larry continues to see Beth. He introduces his children Robin (Heather Lilly) and Billy (Macaulay Culkin) to the Goodwins, but they do not blend well together. Robin blames her father for replacing Jo with Beth, and a planned wedding is postponed due to the continuing friction. Sidney, Beth's best friend, advises her to give Larry another chance, explaining how love is not always perfect by giving the example of how Martin once committed adultery. Simultaneously, Larry dresses up as Cupid and convinces her to marry him.

Beth soon starts to worry about their future, fearing that Larry will one day abandon her the way Peter did. Larry proposes they move to another apartment, explaining that their current residence will always be Cathy and Petey's father's place. Beth's children are opposed to a move. While Beth is overseas for work, daughter Cathy starts to rebel and is arrested for shoplifting at Bloomingdale's. Larry continues to feel vulnerable to Jo, whose mother is revealed to be dying, prompting Jo to leave the children with Larry.

Since the death of Neenie, Larry's focus is on comforting his ex-wife and kids. Jo admits that she still loves him, leaving Larry uncertain what to do. He assures Beth that he did not commit adultery, despite feeling connected to Jo.  Cathy and Petey mistake Larry and Beth's night of making love for a violent struggle. They fear that something bad has happened, making the children realize how much they actually appreciate Larry. The whole family agrees to move to a new house.

####Seeking a Friend for the End of the World####
In NYC, a breaking news report informs the world that a mission to stop an incoming 70-mile wide asteroid known as "Matilda" has failed and that it will make impact in three weeks, destroying all life on Earth. Dodge Petersen and his wife, Linda, listen to the broadcast parked on the side of the road. When he expresses disinterest, she looks disgusted and abandons both the vehicle and their marriage.

At home, Dodge reminisces about his high school sweetheart, Olivia, when he notices his neighbor Penny crying on the fire escape. She just broke up with her boyfriend Owen for making her miss her last opportunity to see her family in England.

Dodge stops going to his job at an insurance company when one of his co-workers commits suicide. He also attends a bacchanal at the house of his best friend, where he politely avoids the amorous intentions of a friendly stranger and of his best friend's wife (on the latter case, he says he cannot cheat with a married woman, but she points out that marriage means nothing now that civilization is going to end).

At her apartment, Penny gives Dodge three years worth of his mail that was incorrectly delivered to her and, in the process, unwittingly tells him that his wife was having an affair. Dodge storms off into the night, guzzling codeine-laced cough syrup and window cleaner in a suicide attempt.

Dodge wakes up in a park, with a dog tethered to his foot and a note on his sweater reading "Sorry", which becomes the dog's name. Dodge takes Sorry home, opens the old mail, and is surprised to discover a three-month-old letter from Olivia, which explains that he was "the love of her life".

Later, a riot breaks out in their neighborhood. Dodge and Penny abandon the self-centered Owen amid the rioters, with Dodge explaining to Penny that he knows someone who could fly her to England if she helps him find Olivia. She agrees, and they set off with Sorry for Dodge's hometown in Delaware.

Along the way, Dodge and Penny run out of gas, witness the bizarre death of suicidal motorist Glenn whose plan to pay an assassin to kill him without warning pays off, see the beginning of an orgy at a chain restaurant but leave hurriedly before the frenzied sex begins, have sex themselves in a pick-up truck, and spend a night in jail.

They get a ride to Camden, New Jersey, where they meet Penny's ex-boyfriend, Speck, who is prepared for the apocalypse with a well-stocked underground bunker. Speck has a working satellite phone and lets Penny contact her family.

Penny and Dodge borrow a car from Speck and eventually make it to Olivia's family home. They walk up to the door of the home but find no one home and then spend the day together; they realize a mutual affection. Penny discovers a letter from Olivia to her parents, which reveals her address. Penny and Dodge drive to Olivia's home, where Dodge leaves her a letter to Olivia, expressing his feelings for Penny.

Later, they go to the house of the man who Dodge promised could take Penny to England. The man turns out to be his estranged father, Frank. After making amends with Frank, Dodge puts a sleeping Penny into his father's plane, whispering to her that she is the real love of his life. Frank and Penny depart, leaving Dodge behind.

Dodge takes refuge in Penny's apartment and awaits his imminent death until she unexpectedly returns, upset that he allowed her to leave. They lie in bed and comfort each other as they feel the tremor of the asteroid's impact. Penny expresses regret at not having met Dodge sooner, while he assures her that their meeting had been opportune. Penny smiles as everything fades to white.

####Senior Moment####
Victor Martin is a retired Air Force pilot and lifelong bachelor who relives his youth cruising in his mint condition, silver, 1955 Porsche 356, usually accompanied by his best friend, retired jeweler Sal Spinelli.  Victor and Sal encounter Pablo Torres, driving a vintage Chevrolet Impala lowrider and challenge him to a friendly drag race.  However, Pablo is aware that there is a cop hiding ahead, and proceeds within the speed limit, letting Victor get pulled over.  The police officer recognizes Victor as a well known character in the community and lets him off with a stern warning.

On a subsequent evening, Victor and Sal encounter Pablo again and actually drag race. Victor loses control and spins out and is charged with reckless driving. His license is revoked and his Porsche impounded as a result.

Forced to ride the bus, Victor meets Caroline Summers who owns an organic cafe called the "Cuckoo Cafe" and heads a grassroots organization to save the endangered desert tortoise. Victor particularly wins her heart when he and Sal, using Sal's expertise as a jeweler, repair a 19th century cuckoo clock, a family heirloom of Caroline's, which had not functioned for years, but for which her Cafe is named.

Victor's relationship with Caroline is not without rough patches. Victor's worst faux-pas is accusing Caroline of having an affair with Diego Lozana, a successful painter. It turns out that Caroline spends a lot of time with him because he is the main benefactor of her charity to save the tortoise, and she has commissioned him to paint a partially nude portrait of her (which resulted in Victor seeing her in a state of undress in his presence). It turns out that Diego is gay and happily married to a man. Victor must humbly apologize to Caroline.

Victor, twice, believes he sees his Porsche being driven in the area, and with the help of Pablo, who has befriended him and feels somewhat responsible for Victor losing his car and license, catches the private security guard at the impound lot illegally renting it out. The excitement and anger of this discovery cause Victor to have a heart attack and Pablo drives him to the hospital in the Porsche. Theft charges for taking the Porsche from the impound lot are dropped due to the emergency of the heart attack.

Eventually, Victor passes the necessary written and behind the wheel tests to get his driver's license reinstated. He sells his Porsche to Pablo for far below its value as thanks for saving his life, and buys a BMW i8 to replace it, and Sal is seen cruising in Pablo's lowrider, apparently having bought it.

Through their relationship, Victor develops a passion for saving the desert tortoise, and Caroline develops a guilty pleasure of riding in fast cars, despite her environmentalist leanings.

####Sex and the City####
Taking place a few years after the events of the "Sex and the City" television series, Carrie is now in a committed relationship with Mr. Big, and they are viewing apartments with plans to move in together. Carrie falls in love with a penthouse far from their price range. Big offers to pay for it. Carrie offers to sell her own apartment, although she also fears that she would have no legal rights to their home in case they separate, as they are not married. To quell her fears, Big suggests that they marry. Charlotte hires her longtime friend, Anthony Marantino, as the wedding planner.

Carrie shows Anthony and Charlotte the vintage suit she plans to marry Big in, but no one except Carrie loves it. Carrie is asked by her Vogue editor Enid to do a spread for Vogue called "The Last Single Girl". She gets to dress up in fancy couture gowns and is gifted a gown from Vivienne Westwood, which she decides to wear instead of her suit. The ensuing publicity of her engagement blows up her small wedding to a big affair, which makes Big increasingly uncomfortable.

Miranda, who has settled down in Brooklyn with Steve to raise Brady together, has been so busy with work, that she has not had sex with Steve in six months. When Steve confesses he has cheated on her, Miranda is devastated and immediately leaves him. At Carrie and Big's rehearsal dinner, Steve tries to reconcile with Miranda, but she is still upset and tells Big bluntly that marriage ruins everything. On the wedding day, a stressed-out Big cannot go through with the ceremony. As a devastated Carrie flees the wedding, Big quickly realizes his mistake and catches up with Carrie, who furiously attacks him with her bouquet in the middle of a one-way street.

Miranda tells Charlotte that she may have upset Big, and she wants to tell Carrie. Charlotte tells her not to, as Big has always had doubts about marriage. To console Carrie, the women take her on the honeymoon that she had booked to Mexico, where they de-stress and collect themselves. Upon returning to New York, Carrie hires an assistant, Louise, to help her manage her life. She gets her apartment back, and Louise helps her put up her website. Charlotte, who is married to Harry and has adopted a Chinese girl named Lily, learns she is pregnant. She is fearful that something might happen to her baby, but Carrie reassures her.

On Valentine's Day, Carrie and Miranda have dinner, where she tells Miranda that reading the Vogue article about her and Big's engagement made her realize that she had become so consumed with the wedding that it was not about her and Big anymore; it was all about her. Miranda then confesses to Carrie that she made Big upset and doubtful at the rehearsal dinner. Carrie is furious that she had ruined her wedding. After a few days, Miranda gets Carrie to talk to her, and begs for her forgiveness; Carrie asks that she does the same for Steve. Miranda attends couples counseling with Steve and they eventually reconcile.

Meanwhile, Samantha is now living in Los Angeles to be close with Smith, but often flies to New York to hang out with Carrie, Miranda and Charlotte. As she returns to Los Angeles, she is shown to be lonely, with Smith constantly shooting films from morning until night. Watching her sexy neighbor Dante have sexual flings, she buys a dog, overeats and goes shopping to distract herself. Finally admitting she misses her old single life even though she loves Smith, she breaks up with him and moves back to New York. Meanwhile, Louise quits her job to move back to St. Louis and get married.

Later, Charlotte encounters Big, leaving her so outraged that her water breaks. Big takes her to the hospital and waits until baby Rose is born, hoping to see Carrie. Harry tells Carrie that Big would like her to call him, having written to her frequently but never receiving a reply. Carrie soon finds in Louise's files that he has sent her many emails: letters copied from books she read him before their wedding, culminating with one of his own where he apologizes for screwing up and promises to love her forever.

Carrie goes to the penthouse Big had bought for them to collect a pair of brand new Manolo Blahnik shoes that she had left there. She finds Big in the walk-in closet he had built for her. Her anger at his betrayal dissipates and she runs into his arms. After reflecting on how perfectly happy they were before talking about marriage, Big proposes to Carrie, using one of her crystal-encrusted shoes in place of a ring. They marry alone in a simple wedding in New York City Hall, with Carrie wearing the simple vintage suit. Miranda, Samantha, and Charlotte turn up to surprise her, having been called by Big.

The film ends with the four women sipping cosmopolitans, celebrating Samantha's 50th birthday, with Carrie making a toast to the next 50 years.

####Sex and the City 2####
Carrie, Samantha, Charlotte, and Miranda attend the wedding of their friends Stanford and Anthony. Three of the four women are now married themselves but Samantha, aged 52, is desperately trying to keep her libido alive as she enters menopause. The wedding is officiated by Liza Minnelli who also performs a musical number, and Carrie serves as Stanford's "best man". Back home, Miranda quits her job after her firm's misogynistic new managing partner disrespects her once too often. Charlotte's two children are a handful, mostly her two-year-old daughter Rose's extreme and constant crying, and she is worried that her husband Harry is attracted to their buxom Irish nanny, Erin. Carrie's marriage to Mr. Big has settled down, although they differ on how to spend their spare time. Carrie wants to go out often to dinner, parties and big events, whereas Big prefers to stay in and relax on the couch.

For their anniversary, Carrie gives Big a vintage Rolex watch engraved with the message "Me and You, Just Us Two" while he, much to her dismay, shows her a new TV in their bedroom as his gift, which Big says they can use to watch old films together, something they did at the hotel at Anthony and Stanford's wedding and seemed to enjoy. She is disappointed with Big's gift, as she had hoped for something more personal to show he realizes they must maintain the spark in the marriage. However, Big starts to watch TV more often, making Carrie feel unappreciated. In response she stays at her old apartment for two days to write an article, after which Big acts the way he did while they were first dating and they both enjoy a romantic night out. He enjoys it so much he suggests to Carrie that they take two days off every week, he can go somewhere for those two days to relax, watch TV and lie on the couch, and the rest of the time he will have more energy to do what she wants to do. Carrie does not dismiss this, but is hurt by the suggestion and worries it means they will drift apart.

Meanwhile, Samantha is to devise a PR campaign for an Arab sheikh's business. He flies her and her friends on an all-expenses-paid luxury vacation to Abu Dhabi. Carrie is happy she will have time to think about Big's suggestion. Charlotte is worried about leaving her husband alone with the nanny. But Miranda, unfettered by a job for the first time in her life, is especially excited. Upon entering Abu Dhabi, Samantha's hormone-enhancing drugs are confiscated under United Arab Emirates law, rendering her devoid of estrogen and hindering her libido. Charlotte tries to call Harry every few minutes; Miranda revels in the culture surrounding her; and Carrie befriends her manservant, Gaurau, who is an underpaid temporary worker from India. He warns Carrie of men with watches trying to take advantage of her.

On a visit to a local souq (market), Carrie runs into her former lover, Aidan. He proposes dinner "à deux" at his hotel, and she accepts. The dinner is very enjoyable, with the two discussing old times. Aidan remarks on the ways Carrie is "not like other women". In a moment of remembered passion, they kiss. Carrie runs away in panic and returns to her hotel, where Miranda and Charlotte are having drinks together and discussing the difficulties of motherhood. When Carrie wonders whether she should tell Big about the kiss, as they have no secrets between them, Miranda reflects on when her husband Steve told her about his affair. Samantha counsels Carrie to wait before deciding anything. Carrie opts to call Big to tell him. Big is silent upon hearing the news, and after saying a few words, hangs up.

The four women find their Western style and attitudes clash with Muslim customs. For example, while on a date with a handsome Danish architect, Samantha is arrested for public display of affection after fondling him at a restaurant, giving him an erection in public and making out with him on the beach. With the Sheikh's intervention, Samantha is released but is left with a permanent police record. To make matters worse, the Sheikh cancels the PR meeting and ceases paying for the remainder of the women's luxurious stay. They quickly pack their bags and leave, but must return to the souq to find Carrie's passport that she accidentally left there when she ran into Aidan. When Charlotte is conned into going into a building to buy fake goods, Carrie, Samantha and Miranda save her. However one of the men chase after them and rips Samantha's purse, causing condoms to fall on the ground. When Samantha's liberal dress and western attitude incites an outraged mob among the local men, the women are rescued by a group of local Emirati women who share their sense of style hidden underneath their customary black robes. The Emirati women help to disguise the four American women in robes and veils so they can escape and make it to the airport in time.

When Carrie returns home, she finds the bedroom TV removed and Big gone. She passes an anxious day, at the end of which he returns. Big tells her that although he was torn, he realizes that what she needs is something to remind her at all times that she is married. He hands her a jewelry box, which reveals an engagement ring set with a black diamond. When Carrie asks him why a black diamond, he says she is not like anyone else, echoing Aidan's earlier comment, showing he does appreciate her and they have not lost their spark.

Big and Carrie combine their interests; Charlotte's nanny, Erin, turns out to be a lesbian and no threat to her marriage; Miranda finds a new job at a more laid-back and diverse law firm where she is appreciated; and Samantha remains unchanged, and even meets for sex on the beach with the Danish architect, this time in the Hamptons.

####Shakespeare in Love####
In 1593 London, William Shakespeare is a sometime player in the Lord Chamberlain's Men and playwright for Philip Henslowe, owner of The Rose Theatre. Suffering from writer's block with a new comedy, "Romeo and Ethel, the Pirate's Daughter", Shakespeare attempts to seduce Rosaline, mistress of Richard Burbage, owner of the rival Curtain Theatre, and to convince Burbage to buy the play from Henslowe. Shakespeare receives advice from rival playwright Christopher Marlowe, but is despondent to learn Rosaline is sleeping with Master of the Revels Edmund Tilney. The desperate Henslowe, in debt to ruthless moneylender Fennyman, begins auditions anyway.

Viola de Lesseps, daughter of a wealthy merchant, who has seen Shakespeare's plays at court, disguises herself as a man named Thomas Kent to audition. Kent gains Shakespeare's interest with a speech from "Two Gentlemen of Verona", but runs away when Shakespeare questions her. He pursues Kent to Viola's house and leaves a note with her nurse, asking Kent to begin rehearsals at the Rose.

Shakespeare sneaks into a ball at the house, where Viola's parents arrange her betrothal to Lord Wessex, an aristocrat in need of money. Dancing with Viola, Shakespeare is struck speechless. Confronted by Wessex, Shakespeare introduces himself as Christopher Marlowe. Wessex ejects "Marlowe" and threatens to kill him. Shakespeare finds Viola on her balcony, where they confess their mutual attraction before he is discovered by her nurse and flees.

Inspired by Viola, Shakespeare quickly transforms the play into what will become "Romeo and Juliet". Rehearsals begin, with Thomas Kent as Romeo, the leading tragedian Ned Alleyn as Mercutio, and the stagestruck Fennyman in a small role. Shakespeare discovers Viola's true identity, and they begin a secret affair.

Viola is summoned to court to receive approval for her proposed marriage to Wessex. Shakespeare accompanies her, disguised as her nurse's female cousin, and anonymously persuades Wessex in public to wager £50 that a play can capture the true nature of love, the amount Shakespeare requires to buy a share in the Chamberlain's Men. Queen Elizabeth I declares that she will judge the matter.

Burbage learns Shakespeare has seduced Rosaline and cheated him out of payment for the play, and starts a brawl at the Rose with his company. The Rose players repel Burbage and his men and celebrate at the pub, where a drunken Henslowe lets slip to Viola that Shakespeare is married, albeit separated from his wife. News arrives that Marlowe has been murdered. A guilt-ridden Shakespeare assumes Wessex had Marlowe killed, believing him to be Viola's lover, while Viola believes Shakespeare to be the victim. Shakespeare appears at her church, allaying Viola's fears and terrifying Wessex, who believes he is a ghost. Viola confesses her love for Shakespeare, but both recognize she cannot escape her duty to marry Wessex.

John Webster, an unpleasant boy who hangs around the theatre, spies on Shakespeare and Viola making love and informs Tilney, who closes the Rose for breaking the ban on women actors. Viola's identity is exposed, leaving Shakespeare without a stage or a lead actor, until Burbage offers his theatre and the heartbroken Shakespeare takes the role of Romeo. Following her wedding, Viola learns the play will be performed that day, and runs away to the Curtain. She overhears that the boy playing Juliet cannot perform, his voice having broken, and Henslowe asks her to replace him. She plays Juliet to Shakespeare's Romeo to an enthralled audience.

Just after the play has concluded, Tilney arrives to arrest everyone for indecency due to Viola's presence, but the Queen reveals herself in attendance and restrains him, pretending that Kent is a man with a "remarkable resemblance" to a woman. Powerless to end a lawful marriage, she orders Viola to sail with Wessex to Virginia. The Queen also tells Wessex, who followed Viola to the theatre, that "Romeo and Juliet" has won the bet for Shakespeare, and has Kent deliver his £50 with instructions to write something "a little more cheerful next time, for Twelfth Night".

Viola and Shakespeare say their goodbyes, and he vows to immortalize her, as he imagines the beginning of "Twelfth Night", in character as a castaway disguised as a man after a voyage to a strange land.

####Shall We Dance?####
John Clark is a lawyer with a charming wife, Beverly, and a loving family, who nevertheless feels that something is missing as he makes his way every day through the city. Each evening on his commute home through Chicago, John sees a beautiful woman staring with a lost expression through the window of a dance studio. Haunted by her gaze, John impulsively jumps off the train one night, and signs up for ballroom dancing lessons, hoping to meet her.

At first, it seems like a mistake. His teacher turns out not to be the woman in the window, Paulina, but the studio's older namesake, Miss Mitzi, and John proves to be just as clumsy as his equally clueless classmates Chic and Vern on the dance-floor. Even worse, when he does meet Paulina, she icily tells John she hopes he has come to the studio to seriously study dance and not to look for a date. But, as his lessons continue, John falls in love with dancing. Keeping his new obsession from his family and co-workers, John feverishly trains for Chicago's biggest dance competition. His friendship with Paulina blossoms, as his enthusiasm rekindles her own lost passion for dance. But the more time John spends away from home, the more his wife Beverly becomes suspicious. She hires a private investigator to find out what John is doing, but when she finds out the truth, she chooses to discontinue the investigation and not invade her husband's privacy.

John is partnered with Bobbie for the competition, although his friend Link steps in to do the Latin dances. Link and Bobbie do well in the Latin dances, and while John and Bobbie's waltz goes well, John hears his wife and daughter in the crowd during the quickstep, and is distracted by trying to find them. He and Bobbie fall and are disqualified, and John and Beverly argue in the parking garage. John quits dancing, to everyone's dismay.

Paulina, having been inspired by John to take up competing again, is leaving to go to Europe, and is having a going-away party at the dance studio. She sends John an invitation, but he is not convinced to go until his wife leaves out a pair of dancing shoes that she bought him. He goes and meets Beverly at work, convinces her that while he loves dancing, he still loves her just as much, and he teaches her to dance. They go to the party, and John and Paulina have one last dance before she leaves.

The end scene shows everyone afterwards: Link and Bobbie are now together; Chic, who was actually gay, dances at a club with his partner; Miss Mitzi finds a new partner, and they are happy together; John and Beverly are happier than before and dance in the kitchen; Vern, newly married to his fiancée, dances with her at their wedding; the private investigator that Beverly hired, Devine, starts up dance lessons; and Paulina, with a new partner, competes at the Blackpool Dance Festival, the competition that she had lost the year before.

####Shampoo####
On the eve of the 1968 United States presidential election, successful Beverly Hills hairdresser George Roundy meets with Felicia, one of his several clients/sexual partners, at his apartment. During sex, he receives a phone call from Jill, his naive, younger, up-and-coming actress girlfriend, who is suffering a panic attack, paranoid that an intruder is in her home. George rushes from his house to calm Jill, which frustrates Felicia.

George's occupation and charisma have provided him the perfect platform from which to meet and have sex with beautiful women, including his current girlfriend. Despite this, 34-year-old George is dissatisfied with his professional life; he is the creative star of the salon in which he works, but has to play second fiddle to Norman, the "nickel-and-diming" mediocre hairdresser who owns the business.

George dreams of setting up his own salon business, but cannot convince any bank to lend him the capital he needs. He seeks out Felicia and her unsuspecting husband Lester to bankroll him. George's meeting with Lester supplies a second secret for him to keep from his would-be benefactor; Lester's current mistress, Jackie, is George's former girlfriend, perhaps the most serious relationship he has ever had. Jackie is also best friends with Jill, making the situation even more complicated.

Jackie arranges for George to style her hair, which he fashions nearly identically to Felicia's. Sexual tension arises between the two, and George attempts to kiss Jackie. At first, Jackie rebuffs George, but then kisses him back. They are about to have sex in the bathroom when they hear Lester announce his arrival. As Lester comes into the room, they pretend for his benefit that George is finishing styling Jackie's hair.

Lester, who assumes George is gay because of his profession, asks George to escort Jackie to a Republican Party election-night soiree. Upon arriving, George finds himself in the same room as a number of present and former sexual partners, including Jill (who came with Johnny Pope, a film director considering her for a role in his next film) and Felicia. Jackie becomes upset, drinks too much, and behaves outrageously, so Lester asks George to take her home, but she refuses to go.

All the principals except Felicia adjourn to a posh counterculture party at a Beverly Hills mansion, where guests indulge in alcohol, other drugs, and sexual pursuits. Lester, followed moments later by Jill and Johnny, happen upon a couple having vigorous sex in the dark on the kitchen floor. Lester comments admiringly on this tryst to Jill and Johnny, who look on through the window in stunned silence. Suddenly, the refrigerator door George had failed to properly close comes open, illuminating Jackie and him. Lester, shocked, abruptly leaves. An enraged Jill throws a chair, breaking the window, and swears at George. Jackie flees as George tries to placate Jill with an obvious lie, but Jill, unmollified, runs off to spend the night with Johnny.

The following morning Jill confronts George at her home with one of Felicia's earrings, which she found in his bed. When she asks about his dalliances, George admits he sought a career in the beauty industry as a means to pursue beautiful women, and that his promiscuity, while making him feel like he will live forever, may mean he does not love her. Upon returning to his home, George is met by Lester and some intimidating men. George and Lester soon find mutual understanding. Lester calls Jackie a whore and mentions he is fed up with her. Lester promises George a business deal and he and the men leave.

George subsequently goes to Jackie's house, but she worriedly flees in her car, claiming she does not want Lester to find them together. George pursues her on his motorcycle, and the two arrive on a hilltop overlook above her house. George proposes to Jackie, but she tells him it is too late; she has arranged to go to Acapulco with Lester, who has said he will divorce Felicia and marry her. Jackie leaves George alone on the overlook, from where he sadly watches her depart with Lester.

####Shanghai Kiss####
Liam Liu is auditioning for a role in a toothpaste advertisement.  He is rejected after some initial questions by the screeners because he is not considered "[East] Asian" enough.  This begins a glimpse into the casting decision of Hollywood producers, who Liam believes heavily stereotype East Asian men to the point where it is difficult for them to land normal roles.  Liam then takes a city bus home from the audition since his car is towed away, and there, he meets Adelaide Bourbon (Hayden Panettiere), a young, beautiful, high school student. During the ride home, Liam discovers that Adelaide has been sketching a picture of him.  The two begin to converse and Adelaide sings Liam a song, whereupon they quickly become friends.  Liam feels guilt for becoming friends with such a young girl and Adelaide later asks Liam to go to the prom with her.  He declines, and this serves as the basis for the many times that Liam feels guilty in having a budding friendship with such a young girl.  His friend, Joe Silverman (Joel Moore), is one of the most vocal opponents of the "friendship", as Joe expresses his belief that no good can come out of what is developing between Liam and Adelaide.

During a scene early in the movie, Liam expresses his frustration in the stereotyping of East Asian men in Hollywood, since he himself is a struggling actor.  Joe reminds Liam that it was Liam's decision to drop out of Columbia University to pursue a career in acting.  In the "bar scene," as it is known, Joe challenges Liam to ask a Caucasian woman at the bar out. Liam rails against Joe and the woman at the bar, Georgia (Kathleen Lancaster), because she supposedly represents the superficiality and status-seeking of Hollywood and of Caucasian women in the U.S. in general.  Still, Liam is attracted to Georgia and has been in several "W.G.W.A.G." (White Girls With Asian Guys) relationships before in Hollywood.  Liam ultimately takes Joe up on this bar bet and sits down next to Georgia.  In a small period of time, he is able to charm Georgia, saying that her name represents Liam's "favorite Confederate state."  The two sleep together, but Liam weeps after his father calls him while the two are having sex, ostensibly because Liam, while able to have sex with the woman he chose, feels pangs of emptiness from not being connected to his folk, and instead, being lured into the image of success represented by women such as Georgia.

After having sex with Georgia, Liam picks Adelaide up to take her to school. Liam is obviously conflicted as he connects with Adelaide on an intellectual level, but cannot get past the difference in their age. Liam then gets a call from his father in New York, informing him that Liam's grandmother has died and has left Liam a small house in Shanghai.  Liam travels to Shanghai, promising to call Adelaide daily while he is there.  Upon arrival, he is greeted by his cousin who speaks English and who has found an older couple to buy Liam's house for him. After spending a night out on the town with his cousin and a call girl named Amy (with whom he did not have sex), as well as an awkward late night call from Adelaide at his hotel, Liam goes to meet the buyers of his house. After seeing the view of Shanghai from the house, and being told that the house would sell for five hundred thousand yuan and not five hundred thousand U.S. dollars, Liam chooses not to sell the house. While at a bar, he meets Micki Yang (Kelly Hu). Micki is initially resistant to the charms of Liam, but the two slowly tour Shanghai doing things Liam has never done.  Micki is still somewhat skeptical about Liam, since Liam is, in a sense, foreign in his home country and has never visited and knows little about his home-land. After spending the night together, Liam decides to move into his grandmother's house in Shanghai.

Liam returns to L.A. and tells his friends of his plan. After a tearful goodbye with Adelaide, he returns to Shanghai and tries to live as a Chinese person. Unfortunately, Liam is picked up by Micki's gangster boyfriend, of whom Liam was not aware, after he finds out about Liam and Micki's relationship. Pointing out Liam's up-bringing in the U.S., Micki's boyfriend dumps Liam from a limousine in the pouring rain in downtown Shanghai. Liam is reminded of his semiforeign status as he wanders the streets unable to communicate with the people or find his way home. Liam later asks Micki about her boyfriend, and she responds that she is only with him because her family is destitute - her mother raised her and her numerous young siblings alone, and it would greatly aid her family to have access to such money. She also mentions that Liam cannot possibly understand the options one has when one is living a life of abject poverty.

After Micki tells Liam to go back to Los Angeles, he again almost sells the house to the elderly couple, but has another change of heart and decides to leave the house to Micki, who will be able to use the house to abide in with her family and thus will not be forced to remain with her boyfriend because of financial issues.  He returns to the U.S. to reconcile with Adelaide, but she rebukes him as she is leaving for France to attend art school. With a mixed-message good-bye, she goes to France and Liam reconciles with his father, getting a job at Starbucks and successfully auditioning for an advertisement for a genital herpes treatment. Adelaide later returns to the U.S. and Liam is prepared to meet her upon her arrival to the airport from France. However, as he prepares to walk up to give her some flowers, he sees Adelaide kissing a Caucasian man as they part. Liam walks out of the airport and disposes of the flowers in frustration of himself. As he prepares to leave, however, Adelaide accosts him. When he asks about the man in the airport, she informs Liam that the man was her instructor and that "he's as gay as a pineapple." They agree to restart their relationship on a more solid footing (if for no other reason because she is now of legal age), and he explains that he's "daffy about her." She tells him "anything is possible, that's the beauty of living". The movie ends with the two hugging outside the airport with the song "Home" being sung in the background by Hayden Panettiere.

####The Shape of Things####
When nerdy Adam Sorenson, an English Literature major at Mercy, a fictitious Midwestern college, meets Evelyn Ann Thompson, an attractive graduate art student, at the local museum where he works, his life takes an unexpected turn. Never having had much success with women, Adam is flattered when Evelyn shows an interest in him and, at her suggestion, gets a new hairstyle, begins a regular exercise regimen, eats healthier foods, dresses more stylishly, acts more confident and dominant, and begins wearing contact lenses instead of his usual eyeglasses. These initial changes regarding Adam's physical appearance are well received by Adam's friend, Phillip, and Phillip's fiancée, Jenny. Jenny knew Adam long before she met Phillip, but Adam never asked her out. Jenny takes such a liking to Adam's new physique that she makes a move on him and the two share a passionate kiss. Whether or not Adam and Jenny have sex is left ambiguous. Later, Evelyn cajoles Adam into undergoing plastic surgery to fix his large and naturally misshapen nose and succeeds in persuading him to cut himself off from Phillip and Jenny, whose relationship she ruins. He agrees.

Eventually, Adam learns that he has been part of Evelyn's MFA thesis project, a topic often mentioned in conversation but never fully explained. Evelyn presents Adam to an audience of students and faculty as her creation, announcing that she had been instructed to "change the world" by her graduate adviser, but that she had chosen to "change someone's world" instead. Her work consisted of "sculpting" Adam into a more attractive human being. Accordingly, none of the feelings she has shown him throughout the film are genuine; at no stage in their "relationship" has she fallen in love with him; her videotapes of them having sex are simply part of the project's documentation. She also announces that she is not going to marry him and the engagement ring he offered her is simply one of the exhibits of her art installation, the "capper to my time at Mercy".

Publicly humiliated and emotionally devastated, Adam confronts Evelyn in the gallery (as no one else showed up to the Q&A afterwards), demanding an explanation for her actions. She responds by saying that he should in fact be grateful to her, claiming that, objectively speaking, she has been a positive influence on his life, making him a more attractive and interesting person in the eyes of society. He calls it a heartless joke, not art, and asks for the ring back, as it was his grandmother's. Evelyn agrees. He asks her if "anything you told me about yourself was true" and she tells him what she whispered in his ear the night they had sex on tape was true.

Evelyn leaves Adam standing alone in the gallery. He goes over to the TV and pushes "Play" as it shows when the two of them were in bed making love. In tears, he watches it over and over again.

####She's Back on Broadway####
When Catherine Terris's (Virginia Mayo) career in Hollywood hits the skids, she heads back to the site of her first great triumphs...Broadway! She takes the lead in a play which is being directed by Rick Sommers (Steve Cochran), the man who was both her Svengali and her lover. Sommers is still bitter that she walked out on him to become the toast of Hollywood years earlier. Can Terris and Sommers put aside their mutual animosity long enough to make a go of this production? After the way things start off, it doesn't seem likely.

####She's Gotta Have It####
Nola Darling is a young, attractive graphic artist living in Brooklyn who juggles three suitors: the polite and well-meaning Jamie Overstreet; the self-obsessed model Greer Childs; and the immature, motor-mouthed bicycle messenger Mars Blackmon. Nola is attracted to the best in each of them, but refuses to commit to any of them, cherishing her personal freedom instead, while each man wants her for himself.

Her carefree, sexually liberated lifestyle ultimately comes to an end when her three male suitors meet and compare notes on Nola. While Greer justifies Nola's callous behavior by claiming that she sees the three not as individuals but as a collective, Jamie and Mars become bitter over how little Nola cares for all three men. Opal, a lesbian friend of Nola's who believes every person is capable of sexual fluidity, expresses attraction to her and when Nola asks how having sex with a woman is, offers her an opportunity to find out. However, Nola declines.

Realizing that Greer and Mars are too scared of losing Nola to force her to choose one of them, Jamie tells her that she must choose a single lover. Nola scoffs at this, and persuades him to come to her apartment several days later for casual sex. Jamie rapes her and mockingly asks her if he's as good sexually as Greer or Mars. Nola has an epiphany: realizing that her choices have turned Jamie against her, she decides to call his bluff. Nola dumps Greer and Mars and tells Jamie that she is ready for a monogamous relationship. Believing that her sexual activity has prevented her from committing to a single guy, Nola tells Jamie their relationship has to be celibate for the time being. After at first rejecting Nola's "no sex" decree, Jamie agrees to it.

Nola and Jamie's reunion, however, is followed by a coda which dismantles the "happy ending" of the couple coming together. In a monologue delivered to the camera, Nola reveals that her vow of celibacy and her decision to be with Jamie exclusively was "a moment of weakness". She says that she soon began to cheat on Jamie and their relationship collapsed. Nola proudly proclaims that monogamy is a form of slavery and that her lifestyle is freedom in its purest form. The film closes with a view of Nola going to bed alone.

####Shirley Valentine####
Shirley Valentine is a bored 42-year-old working class Liverpudlian housewife whose life and initially enriching marriage has settled into a narrow and unsatisfying rut, leaving few real friends and her childhood dreams unaccomplished and she feels as if her husband and children treat her more like a servant. When her flamboyant friend Jane wins a trip for two to Greece, Shirley uncharacteristically puts herself first and accepts Jane's invitation.

Shirley feels considerable self-doubt, and ultimately only goes because of unexpected encouragement from her neighbour Gillian, who drops her air of superiority to reveal her respect and emotional support of Shirley's plans, and former school enemy Marjorie Majors, who reveals she had in fact been envious of Shirley's rebellious role at school, and had become a high class prostitute rather than a prestigious air hostess.

Upon arrival, Jane immediately abandons Shirley for a holiday romance with a fellow passenger from their flight, leaving Shirley to set out on her own. She begins to see her fellow holidaymakers through new eyes, as she genuinely enjoys Greece while they want British food and stereotypical entertainment. She remains contentedly alone until she meets Costas Dimitriades, the owner of a nearby tavern, who helps her fulfil a dream of drinking wine by the seashore in the country where the grapes were grown, and later invites her to travel around the nearby islands for a day on his brother's boat. Costas promises not to try to seduce her, while nonetheless bolstering her self-confidence in her own attractiveness ("You think I want to make fuck with you? Of course I want to make fuck with you. But boat is boat, and fuck is fuck.").

As Shirley prepares for the trip, Jane returns and begs for forgiveness for abandoning her; Jane is then stunned to find that Shirley has made plans on her own and will be going out with Costas imminently. Enjoying the day out, Shirley decides to swim in the sea; lacking a swimsuit, she swims naked instead with Costas joining her in the water. She realises that she does not want Costas to keep his promise. They kiss and later on the boat have very intense sex.

On her return, Jane believes that Shirley has fallen in love with Costas, but Shirley reveals to the audience that she has fallen in love with the idea of living. She spends more time with Costas, and at the airport turns back, and walks to Costas's tavern to find him attempting to seduce another tourist the same way. Costas is shocked to see Shirley after her departure, but she says she wants a job and is not upset at catching him in the act.

Shirley's husband Joe, who was angry and confused at her departure, waits for her return with a large armful of flowers. He is shocked and embarrassed to find Shirley chose to stay and is not on the plane, and repeatedly calls her, pleading and arguing for her to return, saying that it is her place and she is embarrassing him, or telling her that her actions result from a midlife crisis or menopause.

Shirley becomes more content with her new life. She also becomes a great success with narrow-minded holiday makers who want the same food as in Britain. Finally, their son tells Joe to go and get her instead of just phoning. Receiving a telegram about Joe's arrival, Costas makes excuses and leaves for the day, while Shirley is unperturbed. Joe walks from the airport. Shirley, wearing sunglasses and now feeling like a different person, is sipping wine by the sea in the sunset. Joe does not recognise her and walks past until she calls him back. The film ends with the two drinking wine by the sea, leaving open the question of how the matter resolved.

####Show Boat####
When the show boat "Cotton Blossom" arrives in a Mississippi town to give a performance, a fistfight breaks out between leading man Steve Baker and Pete, the boat's engineer who has been making passes at Steve's wife, leading lady Julie La Verne. Pete knows a dark secret about the couple: Julie is part black and therefore their marriage is illegal. When Pete shows up with the town sheriff, Baker pricks Julie's finger and sucks blood from it, meaning he now has "negro blood" in him as well. Unfortunately, since black and white actors are not allowed onstage together, Cap'n Andy is forced to dismiss the Bakers along with Pete.

Julie's best friend Magnolia becomes the new leading lady and riverboat gambler Gaylord Ravenal is hired as her leading man. The two become successful, fall in love, and marry. They leave the boat and move to Chicago, where they live on Ravenal's gambling winnings until he goes broke and walks out on Magnolia.

Ellie Shipley and Frank Schultz, formerly the dance team on the show boat, take Magnolia to audition at the Trocadero nightclub, not realizing the club already has a singer: Julie Baker.  Julie overhears Magnolia audition, learns from the nightclub manager that Ravenal deserted her, and quits so that he will have no choice but to hire Magnolia. Cap'n Andy attends her opening night, where he helps Magnolia confidence conquer her stage fright. Magnolia reveals that she is pregnant with Ravenal's child. She returns to the show boat with Cap'n Andy, where she gives birth to a daughter, Kim.

About five years pass. Ravenal is gambling on board a packet boat, on which a drunken Julie is trying to sing. After punching her escort because he slapped Julie, Ravenal goes out on deck. Julie, who has been keeping track of Magnolia, finds out who Ravenal is, and not realizing that he knew nothing of Magnolia's pregnancy, tells him off. Ravenal is overcome with guilt and returns to the show boat the next day, where he meets his little daughter Kim for the first time and returns to Magnolia, with whom he is reconciled.

####Sideways####
Miles Raymond is an unpublished writer, a wine aficionado, and a depressed, middle-aged English teacher living in San Diego. He takes Jack Cole, his soon-to-be-married actor friend and former college roommate, on a road trip through the Santa Ynez Valley wine country. Jack now does commercial voice-overs and plans to enter his future father-in-law's successful real estate business. Soon after the trip begins, Miles insists on stopping to see his mother in Oxnard, as it is the day before her birthday. He steals a thousand dollars from her room that night. The men sneak out the next morning to avoid the birthday gathering.

Miles wants to spend the week relaxing, playing golf, and enjoying good food and wine. However, much to Miles' consternation, Jack is on the prowl and wants one last sexual fling before settling into domestic life. In the wine country, the pair dine at  The Hitching Post II. Jack sees that Maya, a waitress with whom Miles is casually acquainted, is interested in Miles; Miles thinks she is only being professionally friendly. Jack lies to Maya that Miles' manuscript has been accepted for publication, although it is only being considered. At a wine tasting the next day, Jack arranges a double date with a wine pourer named Stephanie, who is also acquainted with Maya.

During the date, Miles gets drunk and telephones Victoria, his ex-wife, after learning from Jack that she has remarried and will be bringing her new husband to Jack's wedding. The two couples go to Stephanie's home, where she and Jack adjourn to her bedroom for sex. Miles and Maya connect through their mutual interest in wine, and Miles kisses her awkwardly. As they are leaving separately, Miles gives her a copy of his manuscript, which Maya had earlier expressed interest in reading.

Jack claims to have fallen in love with Stephanie and tells Miles he wants to move to Santa Ynez Valley to be closer to her. After spending time with Jack and Stephanie at wineries and a picnic, Miles and Maya return to her apartment and have sex. The next day, Miles lets it slip that Jack is to be married. Disgusted with the men's dishonesty, Maya dumps Miles.

Jack and Miles go to a winery that Miles finds subpar. After hearing from his literary agent that his manuscript has been rejected, an upset Miles pesters the pourer for a "full pour" of wine. When the server refuses, Miles drinks from the spit bucket, creating a scene. Jack intervenes and drives Miles back to the motel. Upon arrival, Stephanie approaches Jack knowing about his engagement and breaks Jack's nose with her motorcycle helmet, screaming about being lied to. Miles takes Jack to the ER and leaves Maya an apologetic voice message, admitting that his book is not going to be published. That night, Jack hooks up with a waitress named Cammi, despite Miles's protests. Later, Jack returns to the motel naked, having been caught having sex with Cammi by her husband. Jack begs Miles to help him retrieve his wallet, which contains custom wedding rings. Miles sneaks into the house, where he discovers Cammi and her husband having sex. Miles grabs the wallet and runs, barely escaping the nude and irate husband.

Jack intentionally drives Miles's car into a tree so it looks as if he broke his nose in an accident. The pair return to the fiancée's home, where Jack is warmly received by the family.

Following the wedding ceremony, Miles runs into his ex-wife Victoria and meets her new husband, Ken. Victoria tells Miles that she is pregnant. Miles absconds before the reception, driving back to his San Diego apartment. Alone, he drinks his prized wine, a 1961 Château Cheval Blanc, from a disposable styrofoam soda cup at a fast-food restaurant. Miles returns to the routine of teaching school. One day he receives a voicemail from Maya, who says she enjoyed his manuscript and invites him to visit. Miles drives back to wine country and knocks on Maya's door.

####Sing You Sinners####
The three Beebe brothers are talented singers looking to make their way in the world. Joe Beebe (Bing Crosby) is a chronic gambler and a source of great consternation for his loving mother (Elizabeth Patterson), who only wishes he would follow the example of his responsible brother David (Fred MacMurray), who postpones his marriage to Martha Randall (Ellen Drew) regularly because Joe cannot support the family. Mike Beebe (Donald O'Connor), the youngest of the three brothers, idolizes his gambler brother and wants to grow up to be just like him. While Joe is always looking for an angle, convinced his only road to success is through gambling, David prefers working in his garage and dreams of the day he can afford to marry Martha.

After losing his new job at the local gas station for trading gas for rummage articles, Joe travels to Los Angeles and soon wins money at the racetrack. Using the money to purchase a swap shop, Joe then trades the store for a racehorse named Uncle Gus. After Joe sends back home glowing reports of his success, Mother Beebe and Mike travel out to California and stay with him. Later, David and Martha also travel to Los Angeles and are shocked to see the rest of their family living on the brink of poverty because of Joe's laziness. Forced once again to postpone his wedding, David sends Martha back home.

With no money coming in, Mother Beebe forces her sons to use their musical training and go to work as a singing trio at a nightclub. Meanwhile, young Mike has been chosen to ride in a big race as Uncle Gus' jockey. One of their competitors, Harry Ringmer (John Gallaudet), bribes the thirteen-year-old into losing the race. Later, when Mike reveals the arrangement to Joe, the older brother reassures him and advises him to race to win. After Mike and Uncle Gus win the race, Ringmer and one of his thugs confront Mike and Joe and beat them up. David and Mother Beebe come to their rescue, and the fight continues until Ringmer and his thug give up.

With enough money to pay their debts, David tries to quit the singing group, but his mother insists that they all keep their steady singing jobs, and her sons agree. David sends Martha a telegram asking her to come back to "marry the four of them", and the three Beebe brothers continue their singing career.

####The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2####
Best childhood friends Bridget Vreeland, Lena Kaligaris, Tibby Rollins, and Carmen Lowell have completed their first year of college and will spend their summer apart.

Bridget discovers her father had hidden letters from her grandmother Greta and doesn't accept that it was to protect her. She goes to Turkey to participate in an archaeological dig under Professor Nasrin Mehani. Finding remains of a woman who died at the same age as Bridget's mother saddens her.

After reading her grandmother's letters, Bridget leaves the dig to visit her in Alabama. She learns her mother, who committed suicide, had denied having depression or any mental issues at all. Not allowing anyone into her life who challenged this or got her help, Bridget's father went along with it. But Greta could not, and moved away because her daughter wouldn't accept help.

Greta tells Bridget her mother was sick and her suicide was not her father's fault, saying she is 'stronger' than her so will not be sick like her. Bridget thinks her mother should have stayed alive for her sake and feels unloved/ abandoned. Greta says that her mother's love for Bridget is why she hung on as long as she did. It allows Bridget to later reconcile with her father.

While mourning the death of her grandfather Bapi in Greece, Lena meets her ex-boyfriend Kostas, who reveals he is married and expecting a baby with his wife. Lena returns to the Rhode Island School of Design and begins dating Leo, the model for her life class. Kostas comes to see her, revealing that his marriage was annulled after his wife revealed that she had lied about being pregnant. Lena forgives him but refuses to take him back because she says they have changed. However, after spending time with Leo, she realizes they are incompatible and she still cares for Kostas.

Tibby works at a video store in New York while retaking a screenwriting class at New York University that requires her to finish her script. While having sex with her boyfriend Brian, the condom breaks. Afraid that she might be pregnant, Tibby withdraws from everyone. Breaking up with Brian, she reluctantly gives Lena's younger sister Effie permission to date him, despite the age difference.

Lena brings Tibby a requested pregnancy test, but she gets her period before needing it. Tibby drives to Vermont, hoping for Carmen's support, but leaves after they argue over who ignores who more. She goes to Brian's and apologizes, confessing she had been afraid dealing with change. Realizing he still loves Tibby, he breaks up with Effie.

Carmen attends an actor workshop in Vermont, prompted by fellow Yale student and friend Julia. During auditions for "The Winter's Tale", Ian, an actor, encourages Carmen to try out. She ultimately wins the part of Perdita, causing Julia to become envious. Carmen grows more confident when her talent is seen by the director Bill and the other actors, including Ian, with whom she begins a flirtatious friendship.

One night, Julia says she is going on a date with Ian, upsetting Carmen and causing her to falter in rehearsals. When her mother Christina goes into labor early, Carmen reconciles with Tibby and asks her to help. Ian comforts Carmen, revealing he only went out with Julia because she begged.

Carmen overhears Julia tell Bill to replace her saying she doesn’t have what it takes, but he refuses. Regaining her confidence, she performs successfully, and kisses Ian after the play. While packing to leave, she chastises Julia for her backstabbing, ending their friendship.

Effie, upset with Brian breaking up with her and how Lena seems to love her friends more than her own sister, steals the Pants and loses them in Greece while visiting her grandmother. Bridget, Lena, Tibby, and Carmen disagree if the Pants are worth saving, so Lena travels to Greece to look for them.

Discovering from Effie that Lena refused to take Kostas back when he visited her in Rhode Island, the other three follow with Carmen's stepdad's almost expired frequent flier miles to help search for the Pants and convince Lena to give Kostas a second chance. Lena sees Kostas and he says he has a place to study at the London School of Economics, but they part. Later, Lena looks for Kostas on his boat and they kiss.

Although they do not find the Pants, the summer ends in Greece with the four friends renewing their mutual commitment to each other.

####The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants####
Lena Kaligaris, Tibby Rollins, Carmen Lowell, and Bridget Vreeland are teenagers from Bethesda, Maryland, who have been best friends their whole lives and are about to spend their first summer apart: Lena is visiting her grandparents in Santorini, Greece; Bridget is going to soccer camp in Baja California, Mexico; Carmen is visiting her father in South Carolina; and Tibby is staying home. While shopping together, they find a pair of jeans that inexplicably fit them all perfectly. They decide to share the jeans equally over the summer, before parting the next day.

While wearing the Pants, Lena nearly drowns, but a local Greek boy, Kostas Dounas, rescues her. Lena later learns from her grandmother that her and Kostas' families are enemies. Kostas pursues Lena, saying the dispute between their families has nothing to do with them. Lena initially rebuffs his advances, but eventually begins a secret relationship with him. Later, Kostas tells Lena he loves her, but her family interrupts and drags her away before she can answer. Lena appeals to her grandfather, who agrees to let her see Kostas before he leaves for Athens.

Working at a discount department store, Tibby finds a young girl, Bailey Graffman, has fainted and calls an ambulance. Later, Bailey delivers the pants to Tibby's house when they are accidentally delivered to her home by mistake. Fascinated by Tibby's self-made film, Bailey appoints herself Tibby's assistant. Initially annoyed, Tibby grows to accept Bailey, and learns that Bailey has leukemia. When Bailey again is taken to the hospital, Tibby avoids her for a while, but eventually visits her with the pants. She pleads with Bailey to take them, but Bailey says the pants have already worked their magic by bringing her and Tibby together. Tibby continues to spend time with Bailey in the hospital, and when she passes away, Tibby decides to make a film inspired by her.

Carmen arrives in South Carolina, only to discover that her father, Al, is about to marry Lydia, who has two children around Carmen's age: Paul and Krista. They are blonde WASPs, unlike Carmen, who was raised by her Catholic, Puerto Rican mother. Although Carmen's father and step-family initially seem welcoming, they emotionally neglect her. Carmen feels uncomfortable with her father referring to Paul and Krista as his kids, and resents him being an enthusiastic, present father to them while he has usually been absent in her life. She is embarrassed at a dress shop when she tries on the bridesmaid dress picked out for her for the wedding, which is too small and unflattering to her voluptuous figure. Angered when the saleswoman calls her "the other one", Carmen shouts at Lydia and runs away. She eventually takes a taxi home and assumes her father and Lydia are out looking for her, but finds them happily enjoying dinner together in their dining room, apparently unconcerned that she's missing. She throws a stone through their dining room window and returns to Maryland. When she arrives, Tibby tries to help Carmen with her feelings toward her father. Carmen lashes out at Tibby, who leaves in tears, though they eventually reconcile. Tibby convinces Carmen to confront her father with a phone call, during which she finally reveals her feelings of neglect and abandonment. He apologizes sincerely, but Carmen tells him it isn't enough.

Arriving at soccer camp, Bridget develops a crush on coach Eric Richman. Despite relationships between coaches and campers being forbidden, Bridget flirts with Eric and seeks his attention during games. When Bridget's turn with the Pants begins, she leads Eric to the beach at night where they have sex and she loses her virginity. Bridget becomes depressed afterwards, and isolates herself when she returns home. After hearing about what happened in a letter, Lena calls Carmen and Tibby, and they go to Bridget's house. Bridget worries she is like her mother, whose mood swings and mental issues culminated in deep depression and her suicide. However, Carmen and Tibby reassure Bridget that she is stronger than her mother and comfort her with happy memories of her mother. On his way back to Columbia University, Eric visits and apologizes to Bridget for his behavior and expresses his hope that she will give him a chance when she is older.

The girls meet Lena at the airport and drive to South Carolina to attend Carmen's father's wedding, despite Carmen's reluctance. Carmen's father publicly apologizes for neglecting her. Carmen accepts his apology and joins the blended family onstage for the ceremony.

####The Skinny####
The film tells the story of five friends who are Brown University classmates—four gay men and one lesbian—as they reunite in New York City for a tumultuous Gay Pride weekend. Magnus (Jussie Smollett), an affluent young medical student, is happily in a five-month relationship with his boyfriend, Ryan (Dustin Ross). Magnus's Brown University college friends join him in New York City for Gay Pride for the weekend: lesbian Yale University PhD student and gay-porn aficionado Langston (Shanika Warren-Markland); innocent and sometimes childlike Sebastian (Blake Young-Fountain), who has just come back from a year in Paris paid for by his parents' trust fund; promiscuous Kyle (Anthony Burrell), now living in Los Angeles and enjoying a career in film production; and witty and sarcastic Joey (Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman).

####The Sky's the Limit####
During World War II, Flying Tiger triple ace Lieutenant Fred Atwell and his almost-as-successful comrades, Reginald Fenton and Richard Merlin, are brought back to the United States for a ticker tape parade and a ten-day "leave." The only trouble is, they are expected to spend all their time on a nationwide morale-boosting tour. Fred sneaks off the train at a rural stop to seek some fun.

He eventually ends up in New York City. He spots a beautiful woman, Joan Manion, in a nightclub. Eavesdropping, he learns that she is a newspaper photographer fed up with taking pictures of celebrities. Her pleas for an assignment in a war zone fall on deaf ears. Her boss, newspaper publisher Phil Harriman, likes her just where she is: nearby so he can try to wear her down and persuade her to marry him.

Fred, giving himself the last name "Burton" to hide his identity, romances her himself in an annoyingly persistent way, even renting a room in the building she lives in. Eventually, she starts to like him, despite what she considers to be a lack of ambition on his part; he does not seem to have or want a job.

She lets him take her on a date, though she steers him into a crowded canteen where she does volunteer work entertaining servicemen. When a performer cancels on short notice, Joan is recruited to sing a number. Fred invites himself to sing along and dance with her; in the process, he runs into his fellow pilots. While Richard dances with Joan, Reginald amuses himself by blackmailing Fred into doing a snake dance on the table in exchange for not revealing who he really is.

Joan tries hard to get Fred a job. When she learns that he once worked as a reporter, she arranges an interview with Phil. Fred, with his leave running out, instead spends the time giving Phil pointers on how to win Joan over, even setting up a romantic dinner at Phil's penthouse with the assistance of his butler, Jackson. Phil blunders badly, then reveals to Joan what Fred has been up to.  Fred's scheme works, and he ends up dining for the evening with Joan, in Phil's penthouse. Joan pours on the charm and proposes marriage to Fred, leaving him in an uncomfortable position.

Later, Reginald informs Fred that their leave has been cut short; they only have two more days. Since Fred still does not have a job, Joan takes him along to a banquet honoring airplane manufacturer Harvey J. Sloan. She introduces Fred to Mr. Sloan, but instead of making a good impression as he had promised, he criticizes the fighter plane's performance built by Sloan. When Joan finds out, she breaks up with him.

Afterward, Phil invites Fred to a nearby bar, where he reveals to Fred that he has found out his true identity. Fred asks him to keep it a secret.  Fred proceeds to get drunk, singing to bartenders while bar-hopping, "One for My Baby," even tapdancing on a bar table and breaking dozens of drinking glasses in the process.

The next day, Phil makes one last attempt to get Joan to marry him. When that fails, he sends her to the airfield to take pictures of pilots returning to the fight in the Pacific, knowing Fred would be there. Here she spots Fred in his uniform, where it all becomes clear to her. The two embrace, and Fred professes his love to Joan, just after he boards the plane for takeoff.

####Smart People####
Carnegie Mellon English Professor Lawrence Wetherhold (Dennis Quaid) is a widowed parent of an alienated college son, James (Ashton Holmes), overachieving high school daughter, Vanessa (Elliot Page), and sibling to an adopted ne'er-do-well brother, Chuck (Thomas Haden Church) whom he cannot evade enough. He is bitter, arrogant, self-absorbed, and uninterested in his students. This becomes a problem when he parks illegally on campus. The car is impounded and the security guard, a disgruntled former student, refuses him access. Lawrence has a trauma-induced seizure after falling from the top of a fence after retrieving his briefcase from inside the impounded car.

In the emergency room, he is treated by Dr. Janet Hartigan (Sarah Jessica Parker). Lawrence needs to get about, but is not allowed to drive. His step-brother Chuck is without a place to sleep or a job, so Vanessa sets up what he characterizes as a "win/win" solution — he will be Lawrence's live-in driver.

At a follow-up appointment, Lawrence learns that Janet had been one of his students. She sees him waiting in the cold outside the hospital, as Chuck has failed to show up, and insists on taking him home. When they arrive, he asks Janet to later meet for coffee and she agrees, fulfilling her old student crush on the professor. Vanessa confronts Janet, warning her about Lawrence's fragility. At dinner, Lawrence monopolizes the conversation and Janet walks out.

Lawrence visits the emergency room to see Janet again and she acquiesces to a second, "face to face conversation." After their wineless date, they return to Janet's place where they consummate their mutual attraction, but while spending the night, Janet is struck by a sudden bout of feminine insecurity, and feigns being called in to work and does not return any of his subsequent calls. During a contentious family Christmas dinner at the Wetherholds', Janet arrives with a cake, unexpectedly though Lawrence had invited her earlier.

Chuck and Vanessa celebrate her early acceptance into Stanford University, and drunkenly she makes a pass at him, which he rejects.  He then moves in part-time with Lawrence's son, James, in his college dormitory.

James' girlfriend Missy (Camille Mana), who is one of his father's students, tells Lawrence how James has had a poem accepted by "The New Yorker". By contrast, Lawrence's latest book has been universally rejected. A new title, "You Can't Read!" (Vanessa's idea) helps sell the book to Penguin Group, a largely non-academic publisher. To Lawrence's dismay, however, the book is largely re-worked by the publisher, only vaguely resembling his original work. Janet accompanies Lawrence to New York to meet with the publisher, where she discovers she is pregnant. Finding him preoccupied with his book's publication, and with an ongoing campaign to become chairman of the English Department, Janet is again upset by Lawrence's self-absorption and breaks up with him without telling him the news.

Back in Pittsburgh, Lawrence is confronted by James and Chuck, who both point to his apparent lack of interest in his children's lives. Encouraged by Chuck, Lawrence goes to the hospital to reconcile with Janet, who reveals her pregnancy. He has meanwhile dropped his bid to become department head and has become a more involved parent and professor.

During the end credits, Lawrence and Janet cradle twin babies: a boy named Sonny and a girl named Cher.

####Smart Woman####
Mrs. Nancy Gibson (Mary Astor) sets out to regain the affections of her cheating husband Donald Gibson (Robert Ames), after she returns from a trip to Paris, where she had to look after her sick mother.
To welcome her in her beautiful house are her servants and husband and wife Billy (Edward Everett Horton) and Sally Ross (Ruth Weston) — Don's business partner and Don's sister. Nancy learns that Don is with his mistress, Peggy Preston (Noel Francis), who very often is accompanied by her mother Mrs. Preston (Gladys Gale). Nancy has the affection of the Rosses and her servants, but she is at first very shocked. Then she decides to play the modern wife and invites Peggy Preston and her mother for the weekend in her house as her guests. Pretending she herself has fallen for Sir Guy Harrington (John Halliday), a man she met in Europe (in fact she met him on the ship on the way home), she invites him too, hoping his flirtation will help her to gain back her husband, whom she still loves.

####Social Register####
Patsy Shaw (Moore) upsets a stuffy party at the home of wealthy Mr. Henry Breene (John Miltern) by stealing a necktie to win the scavenger hunt at Robert Benchley's party across the street. Charlie Breene (Alexander Kirkland), Henry's spoiled son, comes to retrieve his tie and becomes infatuated with Patsy.

Three months later, Charlie gives Patsy a valuable diamond bracelet, which she reluctantly accepts. Back at her apartment, Lester Trout (Ross Alexander), a saxophone player, convinces Patsy that he is ill and has lost his job. Patsy gives Lester the bracelet as a loan, against the advice of her friends, who are suspicious of him.

Charlie's mother, Mrs. Henry Horace "Maggie" Breene (Pauline Frederick), fearful of her son's relationship with a plebeian, arranges a party hoping Patsy's lack of social graces will ruin Charlie's affection for her. Finding the party boring, Patsy goes to the bar, where after a few drinks, she begins to entertain the guests who are slowly wandering in to escape the dull affair. Maggie, relying on the family patriarch, Uncle Jefferson Breene (Charles Winninger), to end the romance, announces his arrival, but she is aghast when Patsy fondly hugs the old man whom she knows as "Jonesie," the friend of one of her roommates. Maggie then asks family attorney Albert Wiggins (Garvie) to end the romance, no matter the cost. Wiggins pays Lester to tell Patsy that he is ill and in need of her help. Charlie is informed about what Patsy did with the bracelet and accuses her of being unfaithful. Lester convinces Patsy to marry him, but as soon as they wed, she finds Wiggins' check for $5000 and realizes the truth. Patsy tears the check up, just as Charlie arrives with Jonesie, who arranges their reconciliation. Having only been married to Lester for ten minutes, Charlie has Wiggins arrange Patsy's annulment.

####Some Girls####
Michael goes to Quebec City, Canada, for Christmas at the request of his college girlfriend Gabriella, who left college in mid-semester. He arrives and is left waiting at the airport for hours. Gabriella (he calls her Gabi) eventually arrives to pick him up and explains that sometimes they just don't answer their phone. He brushes off his frustration because he's happy to see her.

When Michael arrives at the house and meets Gabi's family, he finds them rather eccentric. Her father is wearing only a towel, but spends much of his time nude. He eventually explains that he is writing a treatise on Blaise Pascal and cannot write while dressed. The mother is a fiercely religious and very quiet woman. A Catholic priest named Father Walter, a close friend of the family, is also present. Michael also meets Gabi's two energetic, beautiful, coquettish sisters Irenka and Simone, along with a handsome young handyman named Nick who is romantically involved with Irenka.

Although Michael enthusiastically attempts to join in the unusual habits of the family, he quickly learns that fitting in will be a challenge. The situation is complicated by the illness of Gabi's grandmother, the matriarch of the family, and the reason why Gabi left school in the first place. Michael commits the apparently unforgivable gaffe of expressing his condolences to Gabi's mother. As soon as they have time alone, Gabi announces that she no longer loves him. His attempts to change her mind seem somewhat successful, but her fickleness continues to thwart him. In the meantime, he is seductively teased first by Irenka, then by Simone, all with Gabi's apparent complicity. She appears to have a change of heart toward Michael, but then again decides that she doesn’t love him.

Gabi's grandmother, known only as "Granny," is in a care facility apparently suffering from senile dementia. Upon meeting Michael, she acts as if he is her long-dead husband, who was also named Michael. In an attempt to find her husband, she escapes from the hospital and goes to the country estate which they shared when they were first married. The girls, Nick, and Michael frantically rush to the estate, hoping Granny hasn't frozen in the cold. During their search, Michael gets lost in the woods and falls into a hole, unable to get out. He hears footsteps and finds it is Granny. She helps him out and they go back to the house, where Michael lights a fire and helps Granny out of her wet clothes. She then proceeds to talk to him as if he were her husband, and they form an unexpected bond.

Granny falls ill on the return trip, and despite Nick's valiant attempt to reach a hospital in time, she dies. After the funeral, and a tryst with Irenka, Michael makes a solitary visit to Granny's grave, where he encounters a mysterious young woman and confesses to her that he deeply loved Granny. Later he recognizes the young woman from a photograph as Granny in her youth, and realizes their meeting may have been supernatural. Michael returns home and he never sees Gabi or her family again, as she has decided not to return to college.

####Something to Talk About####
Grace discovers that her husband, Eddie, is having an affair with another woman. After a wildly public confrontation with Eddie and his mistress, Grace packs up their daughter and returns home to her parents' horse farm to regroup. To her surprise and dismay, everyone around her is still mired in old fashioned ideals and believes she should forgive and forget Eddie's indiscretion. Her sister, Emma Rae, who is furious at Eddie and lets him know it, is also unwilling to let Grace pretend this has come out of nowhere, or that she did not make choices that led to her current predicament. Eddie, too, confronts Grace about her withdrawal from their life, and his feelings of abandonment after what started out as an affectionate, loving marriage. Her father feels the whole affair is dragging focus from an upcoming horse-jumping competition, but he and Grace's mother, Georgia, face their own set of problems with fidelity.

####Something Wild####
Charlie Driggs is a conventional yuppie investment banker who works in New York City. After he leaves a greasy spoon diner without paying, a wildly dressed woman with a brunette bob who calls herself Lulu confronts him. Lulu offers Charlie a ride downtown but instead heads for New Jersey and throws his beeper from the moving car. Lulu openly drinks liquor while driving and stops in a town to buy more. While Charlie phones his office, Lulu &mdash; unbeknownst to him &mdash; robs a liquor store.

Charlie claims the cash he is carrying is for his Christmas club account, but Lulu persuades him to pay for a room at a roadside motel. Once inside she handcuffs him to the bed. She phones his boss and puts the receiver to his head while they are having sex, forcing him into an awkward conversation. Later Charlie pretends to phone his wife but Lulu is unaware that his marriage ended nine months ago.

After sharing a meal with Lulu at an Italian restaurant, Charlie realizes he is unable to pay with what little cash he has left. Lulu leaves him with the check, forcing him to flee the restaurant to escape an angry chef who demands payment. After spending the night at a motel, Lulu and Charlie awaken to find a police officer and tow truck near the car she drove down an embankment and into a signpost the night before. Lulu abandons the car and buys one from a sleazy used car dealer, leaving Charlie wondering where she got the money. He starts to enjoy Lulu's free-wheeling lifestyle and realizes he is falling in love with her.

Lulu confesses that her real name is Audrey and introduces Charlie as her husband to her mother, Peaches, at her Pennsylvania home. She appears as a demure blonde, having removed her brunette wig. She takes Charlie to her high school reunion, where a former classmate recognizes him as his office colleague. Audrey's violent ex-convict husband, Ray Sinclair, also appears and makes clear that he wants her back. After ditching his date, Ray takes Audrey and Charlie along while he robs a convenience store. He pistol-whips a clerk and breaks Charlie's nose. They drive to a cheap motel, where Ray forces Charlie to admit his wife left him (having learned this from Charlie's colleague at the class reunion). Realizing Charlie has deceived her, Audrey stays behind with Ray.

Despite Ray warning him to stay away from him and Audrey, Charlie secretly tails the couple as they leave the motel. Charlie confronts Ray in a Virginia restaurant with several police officers seated nearby and threatens to reveal Ray's parole violations unless he allows Audrey to leave with him. He demands that Ray hand over his wallet and car keys and leaves the check with Ray to force him to stay behind as they flee. Ray is saved from this dilemma by a shop girl he had met earlier.

Charlie takes Audrey to his Stony Brook, Long Island, home, but their idyllic suburban retreat is literally shattered when Ray hurls a patio chair through their sliding glass door. He severely beats Charlie and handcuffs him to the pipes under the bathroom sink before attacking Audrey. Charlie frees himself by pulling the pipes apart and strangles Ray with the handcuffs. During the scuffle, Charlie retrieves Ray's dropped knife. Ray dies when he accidentally impales himself on the knife Charlie is holding. Audrey is taken away for questioning when the police arrive.

Charlie later quits his job and looks for Audrey at her apartment, but finds she has moved. Outside the diner where Charlie met Audrey, a waitress accuses him of leaving without paying. Audrey suddenly appears with the cash he left on the table in her hand. She invites Charlie into her woodie station wagon and back into her life.

####Spanglish####
For Cristina Moreno's Princeton University application essay, she tells the story of a year from her childhood, and how it shaped the person she is today.

In 1992, Flor Moreno, a poor Mexican single mother moved to the U.S. (”economy class”, according to Cristina’s letter) seeking a better life for her and her daughter, Cristina. They settle in a Latino community in Los Angeles, Flor works two jobs to support her and her daughter, while never needing to learn English. Flor soon realizes she needs to spend more time with her daughter, so her cousin helps her get work as a housekeeper for the Claskys: John and Deborah, their children Bernice and Georgie, and Deborah's mother Evelyn Wright.

John is a chef and an easygoing family man. Deborah was a businesswoman who lost her job due to downsizing and is now a stay-at-home mother, and Evelyn is an alcoholic retired singer. Uptight and neurotic, Deborah upsets everyone, psychologically abuses and body-shames Bernice, and bullies John, demanding he always back her up. John is torn between defending his kids' mental well-being, and his domineering wife.

Flor gets on well with the Claskys, despite the language barrier. When Deborah rents a house for the summer, she tells Flor she expects her to live in while they're there, since Flor travels by bus and commuting from Los Angeles to Malibu isn't feasible. Faced with losing her job, Flor agrees to bring Cristina and live with the Claskys for the summer.

Deborah quickly becomes attached to the beautiful and personable Cristina, ignoring Bernice; Flor does not approve of the attention. John unwittingly angers Flor when he offers to pay the children a set amount for each bit of sea glass they find on the beach. Cristina earnestly searches for hours, earning $650 for her efforts. Flor and John argue, with Cristina as interpreter; Flor wants to leave because of the awkward family dynamic. He convinces her to stay, to Cristina's delight, and Flor starts an English course to better communicate with the Claskys.

When John's restaurant receives an amazing review, John begins worrying about the added pressure, while Deborah begins an affair. Deborah also secures Cristina a scholarship to Bernice's private school, upsetting Flor, who wants Cristina to maintain her Mexican roots and working-class values. Since Cristina passionately wants to attend the school, Flor agrees. Flor feels Deborah is overstepping her bounds and voices her concerns to John, who tells her he empathizes as Bernice has no support from her own mother. Flor tries to build Bernice's self-confidence with small acts of kindness, especially when Deborah is harsh.

Deborah allows Cristina to bring her friends from the private school over for a sleepover, telling Flor it is a study session, even though Cristina is expected home for a family event. The now-sober Evelyn, knowing about her daughter's affair, warns Deborah that her marriage is in trouble. She pleads with Deborah to end the affair, telling her she will never get another man as good as John.

Deborah tells John about the affair, begging him to talk it out. However, a dejected John walks out, encountering Flor, who has finally had enough of Deborah and wants to quit and retrieve her daughter. Since Cristina is asleep with her friends, John takes Flor to his restaurant, where he cooks for her and they admit their feelings for each other. They acknowledge that they cannot have a relationship. A desperate Deborah continuously tries to contact John and blames Evelyn's failings as a parent for the way she is. They have a frank conversation during which they admit their faults and become closer.

The next day, Flor comes to take her daughter home and informs her that she quit her job, upsetting Cristina. As they are leaving, John tells Flor he will envy whoever ends up with her. On the way home, Flor further upsets Cristina after telling her she cannot attend the private school anymore. Cristina has a meltdown in the street, accusing Flor of ruining her life. After she asks her mother for "space," Flor loses patience and tells Cristina she needs to answer an important question at such a young age: "Is what you want for yourself to become someone very different than me?" Cristina considers this on their bus ride home, and they make up and embrace. The voiceover from the older Cristina tells the Princeton committee that while she would be thrilled by their acceptance, she would not let it define her, as she is already her mother's daughter.

####The Spectacular Now####
Sutter Keely (Teller) is a charming and popular 18-year-old who has spent his senior year of high school partying and drinking alcohol. When his girlfriend Cassidy Roy (Larson) breaks up with him, Sutter goes home and writes a college application supplement, in which he says that his biggest hardship in life has been getting dumped by her. He goes out and gets blackout drunk after sneaking into a bar.

The next morning, Sutter is woken up on a front lawn by Aimee Finecky (Woodley), a girl in his year whose name he does not know. Aimee is in the middle of her mother's paper route, and Sutter joins her to track down his car. The next day, he asks her to tutor him in geometry. He learns that she is smart, funny and into sci-fi and comics. Sutter goes home and deletes the supplement he wrote about his life's biggest hardship. He takes Aimee to a party the next day, and they go for a walk and drink. Aimee confesses she has never been drunk before, never had a boyfriend and does not think she can go to college because she has to take care of her mother. Sutter tells her she is not responsible for her mother before complimenting and kissing her.

The next morning, Sutter wakes up hungover and realizes that he asked Aimee to prom at the party. He avoids Aimee during school and goes to Cassidy's house that night. They get drunk in her room and reminisce, but Cassidy tells him they have no future together and asks him to leave. After Aimee's friend warns Sutter not to hurt Aimee, Sutter takes Aimee to dinner at his sister Holly's house, where Aimee talks frankly about the death of her father from an opiate overdose and her dreams of a perfect marriage. Sutter and Aimee's relationship grows more serious and they eventually have sex. Afterward, Sutter confesses that his mother Sara (Leigh) kicked his father Tommy (Chandler) out when he was a child and has forbidden Sutter from seeing him, and the pair makes a pact to stand up to their mothers.

On prom night, Sutter gifts Aimee a flask so they can drink together. After the dance, Aimee tells him that she is going to college in Philadelphia near her sister, who can help her find an apartment and a job. She asks Sutter to come with her and go to junior college, and he hesitantly agrees. Sutter gets his father's phone number from Holly and arranges to meet up to attend a baseball game, bringing Aimee with him. Tommy answers the door, under the influence, and admits he forgot about their plans and instead takes them to a local bar. Midway through the night, Tommy picks up a woman, asks Sutter to pick up the tab and to meet him back at his motel. But when he fails to arrive, they find him immediately back at the bar drinking with his friends. Sutter and Aimee leave, heartbroken.

Aimee attempts to comfort Sutter and says she loves him, but Sutter, angry and drunk, snaps at her. After almost causing an accident, he tells her he is bad for her and forces her out of the car. Aimee, crying and not paying attention to the road, is clipped by a passing car. Aimee's arm is broken but she forgives Sutter for the incident. After the graduation ceremony, Sutter refuses to drink with Aimee and talks to Cassidy, who tells Sutter that she is moving to California with her boyfriend. Later, Sutter's boss tells him he can only afford to keep one employee and would like to keep Sutter, who is good with customers, but only if he no longer keeps working drunk. Unable to guarantee his sobriety, Sutter quits.

Sutter drives past Aimee, who is waiting for him by the bus to Philadelphia, leaving her heartbroken. He gets drunk at a bar, drives home and totals his mailbox. After an argument with Sara, Sutter reassesses his life and completes the personal statement for his college application, despite having missed the submission deadline. He confesses that his biggest hardship is himself and his insistence to only live in the moment. He drives to Philadelphia and finds Aimee as she is leaving class. They make eye contact, and Aimee smiles ambivalently before the scene cuts.

####Stay Hungry####
Craig Blake is a young Southern man born of a wealthy family, but left lonely and idle after his parents died in a plane crash. He is content to spend his time fishing, hunting and puttering around his large family mansion in Birmingham, Alabama, inhabited only by himself and a butler. Blake is employed at a shady investment firm run by a slick con artist named Jabo where Blake does very little actual work. He is asked to handle the purchase of a small gym that the firm is buying to clear space for an office high-rise.

Blake represents himself as a businessman looking to buy the gym and meets its owner Thor Erikson and employees Franklin and Newton. He is strangely fascinated with the world he discovers there. Blake's usual social life is centered around his upscale country club and its crowd, including his friends Lester and Halsey, and spends his time there playing tennis, shooting poker dice and flirting with women, one of whom asks Blake to find a musical guest for an upcoming party.

As Blake moves forward with the business deal, he is smitten with the receptionist, Mary Tate Farnsworth, and befriends  bodybuilder Joe Santo, who aspires to win the Mr. Universe title. He finds he ultimately cannot sell out his newfound friends at the gym for the sake of his job, so he constantly evades questions about the progress of the gym deal from friend and coworker Hal Foss.

Mary Tate and Craig begin a passionate relationship, but trouble erupts when he tries to integrate her into his country-club scene. At a party at the club, which features Santo performing with a country group, Craig's friends mock Santo as a "freak" and an outcast. A fight nearly breaks out between Halsey and Blake but is broken up. Halsey and his friend Packman formulate a plan to embarrass Santo. When Santo takes the stage, Halsey and Packman drunkenly heckle him and the band. Santo tries to ignore it but soon stops playing his violin and leaves the party. Craig tries to convince Mary Tate to see him for who he really is, and not for his snobbish friends and surroundings.

When Jabo realizes that Blake will not purchase the building, he plies Thor and his assistant Newton with drugs, booze and hookers. The Mr. Universe competition arrives and Santo is hoping to beat his rival Dougie Stewart. While Thor is drunk and distracted with the prostitutes, Newton secretly stashes the prize money inside his bag and flees.

Blake visits the gym and engages in a fight with the drunken and drugged Thor. He finds Mary Tate, who earlier had been assaulted by Thor in an amyl nitrite-fueled rage.

When the Mr. Universe contestants discover that the prize money has been stolen, they run after Santo, who is running to meet Mary Tate. The chase of bodybuilders pours out into the streets of Birmingham and attracts an amazed crowd of onlookers. The bodybuilders engage in an impromptu posing routine for the crowd.

Craig sarcastically derides his former bosses at the real-estate firm and goes into the gym business with Santo. Craig mocks Jabo with an exaggerated bodybuilding pose and moves out of his family's mansion, leaving his old family memorabilia to his butler.

####Still Breathing####
Con artist Rosalyn Willoughby (Going) in Hollywood and puppeteer Fletcher McBracken (Fraser) in San Antonio have the same dream, which links them to each other. He travels to L.A. to find her, but at first she resists him. The film is set in Los Angeles, California, San Antonio, and San Marcos, Texas.

####The Story of Us####
The film opens with Ben Jordan and his wife Katie doing monologues about their perspectives of marriage and their own marriage. They have been married for 15 years and have two children, Erin and Josh, a nice home and a comfortable life.

Their initially happy marriage, however, turns into a sham—a performance they deliver daily for the benefit of their children. While behind the scenes they cannot stand each other anymore.

They met while working for a comedy show, and instantly connected. Katie flashes back to moments where they argued, saying eventually they replaced the arguing with silence.

Sending their kids off to summer camp, Ben and Katie commence a trial separation, during which both try to recall what it is about the other that led them to fall in love in the first place.

They both meet with their corresponding circles of friends, each sharing about what is happening in their relationships, including intimacy, except the Jordans. Ben flashes back to a phone call with Katie, where neither is really listening to the other.

One night, after each of them have a positive flashback, they have a brief call about the kids. Another day, she calls him seeking a number and alerting him that his dry-cleaning was delivered, and he goes to the house for dinner. Both are nervous, but the dinner goes OK, so they go to their bedroom. They chat about their various marriage counselors they've seen over the years, then both feel like their corresponding parents are present. While Ben'd just like to make up, Katie says they first need to repair problems. After he says she's turned into her mother she says f--- you, storming off.

Mid-summer they go to Parents' Day at camp. Ben breaks down upon seeing them, but they maintain their composure throughout the day. Erin sneaks into their room that night. He flashes back to a year ago. Ben and Katie took a trip to Italy, which worked well until they were back home, where they fell back to old patterns.

Back home, Katie goes to a Thai cooking class recommended by a divorcé. He asks her to dinner. In the meantime, Ben goes to dinner with a couple they're friends with. After he has a meltdown, he has epiphany about her perspective. Rushing home, he finds his wife preparing dinner with the divorcè.

A bit before Ben and Katie go to pick up the kids from camp, they agree on a plan to tell the kids, starting with a nice dinner. On the way, she has a flood of events they've been through come to her, both good and bad. This time Katie cries when seeing the kids. Ben names the restaurant they'd agreed on, but she counter-proposes another. Then she rants on and on, essentially they have to take the bad with the good. And they stay together.

####Streamline Express####
Broadway star Patricia Wallace (Evelyn Venable) quits her Broadway show to run off with wealthy Fred Arnold (Ralph Forbes).  Her director Jimmy Hart (Victor Jory) follows them aboard a futuristic super-speed monorail, the  "Streamline Express". In its non-stop trip from New York City to Los Angeles in 20 hours, the double-decker "Express" can reach speeds up to 160 miles per hour.  Meanwhile, also aboard is John Bradley (Clay Clement) and his mistress Elaine Vincent (Esther Ralston), but Bradley's wife Mary (Erin O'Brien-Moore) ends up on the train as well.

When Elaine gives her crooked pal Gilbert Landon (Sidney Blackmer) a diamond pendant given her by Bradley, in order to keep Landon quiet about her past, she pretends that the pendant was stolen, in hopes of hiding the truth from Bradley.  But Landon manages to throw suspicion on Jimmy Hart, who is masquerading as a steward.  It takes confessions by several people to resolve everyone's dilemmas.

####Street Girl####
The Four Seasons are a very good jazz quartet, but they perform in a New York City cafe for only $100 a week, forcing them to share a small, rundown apartment.  The quartet consists of Joe Spring on clarinet, Pete Summer on accordion and guitar, Mike Fall on piano and trumpet, and an ever-pessimistic Happy Winter on violin.

On his way home one night, Mike drives off a man accosting a young blonde named Frederika Joyzelle.  When she tells him she has not eaten in two days, he persuades her to share the group's dinner. She tells them that back in her homeland, she was a violinist. The highlight of her career given a command performance for her homeland's ruler, Prince Nicholaus of Aregon.  Mike convinces his bandmates to allow "Freddie" to room with them for two weeks, after they discover she has no place to go.  Freddie talks the band into asking for a raise to $200, but when they are turned down, they impulsively quit. Mike is further discouraged when they return to the apartment to find Freddie gone.

However, Freddie soon returns with great news. She has spent all day trying to convince Keppel, the owner of the well-known Little Aregon Cafe, to give the quartet a tryout. She finally succeeded, and at a salary of $300 a week. She gets a job there too, as a cigarette girl and part-time violinist. As time goes on, Mike falls in love with Freddie, but is unsure how she feels about him.

Prince Nicholaus of Aregon is in town, trying to arrange financing for his country. He and his entourage go to the cafe, much to Keppel's delight. When Freddie performs for him, he remembers her and kisses her on the forehead.  The newspaper coverage of the kiss causes the cafe to skyrocket in popularity overnight. When a competitor of Keppel's asks the group to perform at his establishment, Keppel wins a bidding war by raising their wages to $3000 a week. This enables them to move into a much fancier apartment. However, the kiss also causes Mike to become jealous to the point of quitting the band.

The popularity of Keppel's cafe allows him to move into the larger "Club Joyzelle". With the help of Prince Nicholaus, Freddie and Mike are reunited in time for the grand opening.  Even Happy, who is anything but, smiles as a result.

####Streets of Fire####
In Richmond, a city district in a time period that resembles the 1950s (labelled "another time, another place"), Ellen Aim, lead singer of Ellen Aim and the Attackers, has returned home for a concert. The Bombers, a biker gang from another part of town called the Battery, led by Raven Shaddock, crash the concert and kidnap Ellen.

Witnessing this is Reva Cody, who telegrams her brother Tom, an ex-soldier and Ellen's ex-boyfriend, asking him to come home. Upon his return, Tom defeats a small gang of greasers and takes their car. Reva tries to convince Tom to rescue Ellen, but he refuses. Tom then goes to a local tavern, the Blackhawk, where he meets a tomboyish mechanic and ex-soldier named McCoy and lets her stay with him and Reva. That night, Tom has a change of heart and agrees to talk to Ellen's manager and current boyfriend, Billy Fish, about rescuing her.

While Reva and McCoy go to the diner where Reva works, Tom acquires a cache of weapons, including a pump action shotgun, a revolver, and a lever action rifle. Tom meets Billy at the diner, and Billy agrees to pay him $10,000, but Tom also requires that Billy accompany him into the Battery to get Ellen, since he used to live there. McCoy also talks Tom into cutting her in for 10% in exchange for her help.

In the Battery, they go to Torchie's, a club that Billy used to book bands at and where Raven has Ellen tied up in an upstairs bedroom. McCoy enters and is led upstairs by one of the Bombers, where she then knocks him out and holds Raven and some of his gang members at gunpoint. Meanwhile Tom creates a diversion outside by shooting the gas tanks on the gang's motorcycles, and then rescues Ellen. Tom sends Ellen off with McCoy and Billy in the convertible, telling them to meet him at the Grant Street underpass and blows up the gas pumps outside a bar. Raven confronts Tom and warns him that he will be coming for Ellen and for him, too. Tom escapes on the one intact motorcycle and meets up with the others.

The group is joined by "Baby Doll", a fan of Ellen's, who warns them that the police are looking for the people who were behind the attack at Torchie’s. To escape, the group hijacks the tour bus of a doo-wop group called the Sorels. The bus is eventually stopped by a police blockade. Billy tries to get rid of the corrupt police officers by bribing them, but Tom and McCoy have to resort to holding the police at gunpoint and shooting up their vehicles. The group, along with the Sorels, ditch the bus and take a train back to the Richmond.

Raven meets with Ed Price, the head of the police department, and promises him no more trouble if he arranges for Tom to meet with him alone. Price plans on arresting Raven, so he tells Tom to get out of town, so as to avoid any more violence. Tom goes to the hotel where Ellen and Billy are staying to collect his reward, but he takes only McCoy's cut and throws the rest back at Billy. As Tom storms out, Ellen follows and the two embrace in the rain. After having sex, Tom and Ellen discuss the possibility of eloping.

Price, with reinforcements, is just about to arrest Raven, but is ambushed by an overwhelming amount of Bombers. Meanwhile, Ellen is on a train with Tom and McCoy, believing that Tom is leaving with her, but Tom knocks out Ellen and returns to town to confront Raven. Tom and Raven duel using sledgehammers and then have a fistfight, with Tom ultimately being victorious. The defeated gang carries their leader away. Later, at a concert, the Sorels open for Ellen and her band. Tom bids farewell to Ellen, promising that he’ll always be there for her if she needs him. Ellen performs on stage, while Tom rides off with McCoy.

####Stuck in Love####
long plot|date=February 2022
Novelist and part-time teacher Bill Borgens  has been floundering since his wife, Erica, left him for a younger man two years ago. Instead of working on a new book, he spies on Erica and her new husband Martin while pretending to be jogging. Bill's son Rusty  is a high school student in love with a classmate named Kate  but lacks the courage to talk to her. Bill's daughter, Sam, is a cynical college student who prefers one-night stands and hookups with people she knows are less intelligent than herself in order to shield herself from love.

On Thanksgiving, Bill has a reluctant Rusty set a place for Erica. At dinner, Sam announces that her first novel has been accepted for publication. Bill, having raised his children to be writers from birth, is thrilled, but becomes annoyed when she admits the book is not the one he had been helping her write. Rusty smokes weed before he goes to a second Thanksgiving dinner with Erica and Martin, but Sam refuses to join, citing Erica's betrayal of Bill.

While at a bar, Sam's classmate Lou tries to prevent her from initiating a hook-up with a sleazy guy. Despite being rebuffed, he continues to pursue her and eventually strong-arms her into a cup of coffee. While discussing their favorite books, Sam is unnerved by their similar tastes in literature and runs off, refusing to be roped into a relationship. When Lou stops coming to the writing seminar they both attend, Sam is saddened by his absence and tracks him down to the house where he takes care of his mother, who is dying. Sam realizes how much she cares for Lou and agrees to go out with him. When they discuss Sam's novel she reveals that a scene in which the main character sees her mother having sex with a man on the beach was about Erica and Martin. When Martin worried if Bill might see them, Erica replied, "I don't care." While listening to Lou's favorite song, Between the Bars by Elliott Smith, Sam begins to cry, afraid of being hurt by a failed relationship. Lou tells her he won't hurt her, and they share a kiss.

Rusty reads a poem in class about an angel, but the poem is actually about his crush and classmate Kate. Bill pays Sam and Rusty to write frequently in their journals and reads Rusty's journal to check in on his writing progress. When Rusty catches him, Bill tells Rusty that he worries he's letting life pass him by and needs to really experience life in order to become a better writer. Rusty and his friend Jason bribe their way into a party held by Kate's boyfriend, Glen. Rusty inadvertently sees Kate and Glen doing cocaine in the bathroom, leaving him dispirited. He and Jason are about to leave when they witness Kate and Glen arguing; when Glen shoves Kate to the ground, Rusty punches him in the face and flees with Kate and Jason. Since Kate can't go home bruised and high, Rusty brings her to his house. While tucking her into bed, she asks Rusty if his angel poem was about her; he admits it was. They share a kiss and begin a relationship. On Christmas Day, they have sex in his closet, which she believes neither of them will forget since it is Rusty's first time having sex and Kate's first time having sex in a closet. Sam and Bill are seen joking about Rusty's coming-of-age and sexual escapades. For Christmas, Rusty gives Kate a copy of "It", his favorite novel, and she gives him her favorite album. At the same time Kate struggles with her drug addiction; while visiting Erica's house, she rifles through a medicine cabinet and is on the verge of stealing prescription drugs when Erica walks in on her.

Bill has regular sexual liaisons with his married neighbor, Tricia, with whom he occasionally jogs. However, he continues to mope over his failed marriage. While Christmas shopping he runs into Erica and they talk over coffee. He tells her that, if given a second chance, he would be a much better husband, leaving Erica visibly uneasy. Tricia urges him to move on and begin dating again, helping him dress better and creating an online dating profile. After going on a somewhat successful date, he stops by Erica's house and peeks in her window. Seeing her read a book, he leaves his wedding ring as a sign that he has moved on. However, he does a double take and realizes she is reading one of his own books. Heartened, he takes back his ring.

Sam has a party for the launch of her book, where Bill makes a speech about the process of writing, quoting "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love", his favorite book. Erica is invited by Lou, but is clearly uncomfortable and avoids conversation. Bill encourages her to talk to Sam by telling her that she stole what she thought was her moms favorite book from his library, showing that Sam still does care for her. But when Erica goes up to Sam, Sam pretends not to know her when signing Erica's copy of her novel. Sam is infuriated with Lou for inviting Erica, and tells him she no longer wants to see him. Sam gives Kate champagne—unaware of Kate's addiction and ignoring the fact that she's underage—Kate goes back for more and is eventually incapacitated due to the mixture of drugs and alcohol. Gus, one of Sam's classmates, takes an incapacitated Kate to his home, which causes the Borgens to panic and track her down. Bill and Erica barge into Gus's apartment and find her unconscious in his bedroom after a night of drinking and doing drugs. As Kate is loaded into the car, Rusty lifts the blanket covering her and realizes that Kate was sexually assaulted, which leaves him in tears.

Devastated, Rusty turns to alcohol and comes home drunk almost every night. While at a convenience store with Jason he runs into Glen, who chases down and beats him. Kate writes Rusty a letter apologizing and telling him she's in rehab, having realized the only person who could truly fix her is herself. She hopes that one day she could be worthy of somebody like him. Bill, worried about Rusty, tells him to channel his pain into his writing. Rusty asks if he did the same when Erica left, prompting Bill to ground him. Rusty writes a story titled "I've Just Seen a Face" (after the Beatles song of the same name, which he told Sam he hears when thinking of Kate) and finds it therapeutic. Later, he gets a call from Stephen King, his favorite author, who tells him that Sam sent his story to King, who had it published in "The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction".

A frustrated Sam tells Bill he needs to move on from Erica. Bill then reveals to Sam that he walked out on Erica when Sam was a baby, and that when he came back six months later she accepted him, having waited for him the whole time. He promised that if she ever left him, he'd wait and give her a second chance like she did for him. Lou calls Sam when his mother dies, which makes Sam realize her own mistakes and how much her mother means to her. She visits Erica and they tearfully reconcile. Sam and Lou get back together, and Sam helps him through his mothers' death.

The film cuts to a year later, and Bill shows he's moved on from Erica by not setting a place for her at the table for Thanksgiving. It is also mentioned that Rusty and Kate are back together, and Kate is in a much healthier place now. As the family sits down to eat, joined by Lou, Rusty answers the doorbell and sees Erica standing there, and she tearfully asks if she can come in and join them for Thanksgiving. Bill is taken aback, but vocalizes that he is happy that Erica has finally come home. She joins them at the table, and Rusty announces his story is being published. While the family celebrates, Bill's narration again quotes from "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love": "I could hear my heart beating. I could hear everyone's heart. I could hear the human noise we sat there making, not one of us moving, not even when the room went dark."

####The Student Prince in Old Heidelberg####
Young Crown Prince Karl Heinrich, heir to the kingdom of Karlsburg (a fictional sovereign state of the German Confederation), is brought to live with his stern uncle, King Karl VII. The king immediately dismisses the boy's nanny without telling the youngster to avoid an emotional farewell. Dr. Friedrich Jüttner, his new tutor, proves to be sympathetic, and they become lifelong friends. Nonetheless, despite the commoners' belief that it must be wonderful to be him, the boy grows up lonely, without playmates his own age.

Upon passing his high school examination in 1901 with the help of Dr.Jüttner, the young prince is delighted to learn that both he and Jüttner are being sent to Heidelberg, where he will continue his education. When they arrive, Karl's servant is appalled at the rooms provided for the prince and Jüttner at the inn of Ruder (Otis Harlan). When Ruder's niece Kathi stoutly defends the centuries-old family business, Karl is entranced by her, and decides to stay. He is quickly made a member of Corps Saxonia, a student society.

Later that day, Karl tries to kiss Kathi, only to learn that she is engaged. Her family approves of her fiance, but she is not so sure about him. She eventually confesses to Karl that, despite the vast social gulf between them, she has fallen in love with him. Karl feels the same about her and swears that he will let nothing separate them. When he takes her boating, their rower, Johann Kellermann, turns his back to them to give them some privacy. Karl jokingly tells him that, when he is king, he will make Kellermann his majordomo.

Then Jüttner receives a letter from the king informing Karl that he has selected a princess for him to marry. Jüttner cannot bring himself to destroy his friend's happiness. That same day, however, Prime Minister von Haugk arrives with the news that the king is seriously ill, and that Karl must go home and take up the reins of government. When Karl sees his uncle, he is told of the matrimonial plans. While Karl is still reeling from the shock, the old king dies, followed by Jüttner.

Later, von Haugk presses the new monarch about the marriage. The anguished Karl signs the document for the wedding. Then Kellermann shows up to take the job Karl had offered him. When Karl asks him about Kathi, he learns that she is still waiting for him. He goes to see her one last time.

In the last scene, Karl is shown riding through the streets in a carriage with his bride. One onlooker remarks that it must be wonderful to be king, unaware of Karl's misery.

####The Sunlit Night####
"Frances" in the opening scene begins with some art evaluators evaluating her work rather harshly. She is soon shown as breaking up with her boyfriend. She returns to her parents' apartment who are also painters & artists. Her mother does interior textiles for wealthy people while her dad illustrates medical books.

Frances informs her sister Gabby that she showed up unannounced from the lake house of her boyfriend because she has broken up with him. Her parents are also told of the bad news and her mom notices that Frances has a leech attached to her posterior. While the mother removes the leech from the "best posterior in New York" Frances gets a text informing her that her residency in Tokyo went to another artist. The dad and other daughter set up the table. During the meal Frances' sister announces that she is getting married. Her father announces that he and their mother are separating. There is an awkward silence as the rejoicing over the other sister's marriage is cut short. Her father explains that he does not approve of the choice of husband made by Gabby.

He takes Frances to his working area and allots her a small space to work while he tells Frances that he is afraid how Gabby will take care of herself. Frances tells him that Gabby will be fine because she is in law school.

Frances is next seen speaking to a career counselor who informs her that she is being placed with an artist Nils Auerman in Norway (a remote part in the North of Norway "Not Oslo").

Frances arrives in Norway to be picked up by a taciturn and irritable Nils.  Frances showers him with praise and admires the land comparing it to a painting. The two of them drive to her residence which is a trailer parked by the water. The bathroom and shower are in the house near the trailer. The first night she cannot sleep because the sun is always up and the curtains are not thick enough to block the light.

The next day she is taken to work on a barn which is she is supposed to paint with Nils. She watches with anticipation as the car passes by a "Viking Village".  They drive past the locals, the Viking museum and archers practicing archery to an old barn which is in the process of being painted yellow. Nils constantly discourages her enthusiasm by telling her not to use the word "amazing" to describe the "hard work" ahead of her. She is given instructions to paint the interior of the barn while Nils paints the exterior. She assumes it is paint by numbers and begins working.

She goes to the grocery store to shop and notices a grocery clerk who reminds her of a goddess from the Renaissance paintings of the past. She is shocked that the clerk is working behind the freezer stacking dairy products onto the shelves. She tries talking to the girl but she gets an indifferent stare so she continues with her shopping. Nils invites her to dinner and makes her a dinner with fish. When she returns to her room she notices that there are goats around her trailer and one of the goats has entered her room.

The next day she notices Yasha walking by the side of the road and asks Nils to stop and pick him up but Nils refuses and wants to go directly to work. At work when she asks Nils when and where she can paint her own works Nils says that it won't be possible because they will be working from 7 to 7.

One day she notices some people practicing archery and engaged in medieval arts like coloring yarn and making ancient weapons and armor. She visits the museums and meets Haldor a gentleman from Cincinnati who takes the Viking lifestyle very seriously and thinks he is the Chief.

When she returns to work Nils is upset and asks her never to leave her work.  He then berates her painting technique by manhandling her. Frances gets upset and leaves. She goes to a restaurant and notices Yasha behind her attempting to order pancakes. Yasha also reminds Frances of a boy from the paintings of the masters. She tries talking to Yasha but he seems despondent, pensive, and lost. She turns around to ask him to join her table when she notices that he has disappeared.

When she returns to her trailer Nils has given her a flower by her doorstep and is apologetic to her.  He explains to her that they are two contrasting colors "orange and blue". They return to work next day when Frances sees Yasha enter the Viking museum.

When she jumps out of the car to accost him she finds out that he is there to attend to his father's funeral.  He was a Russian gentleman who wished for a Viking funeral. Yasha's father was a baker and employed him in the bakery. Around this time Yasha's mother arrives (Olyana). Haldor asks her to leave because Yasha refuses to recognize anyone else.  They soon gather together to see the frozen body of Yasha's father.   Yasha cries over it saying he is "finally free".

Soon after they proceed to carry the coffin by the seashore and place it in a replica of a Viking ship. Haldor attempts to recite a Viking greeting but Yasha instead speaks about his father and what a good person he was. They light the funeral pyre and disperse.

Frances and Yasha summit a hill, drink, and then return to the barn and make love. As they are lying on the floor au natural the Norwegian Art Institute (NKI) representatives arrive to inspect the barn. Frances leaves with Yasha, both apologizing. Nils just stares silently at them.

Soon Frances returns to New York. Haldor wonders if he is a "troll".  The grocery store clerk (and subject of Frances's paintings) tells Haldor that she likes trolls : people who work in cold dark places and are big and strong and it is implied that maybe Haldor has found a friend.

When Frances returns her sister is married and her Dad makes an anxious speech about how worried he is that she has married out of her own free choice ignoring the advice of her parents. Frances receives a letter from Nils informing her that the barn she and Nils painted together has passed inspection and is now on the map. Nil appended a map to the letter, to which Frances smiles and remarks that Nil's work was not as fragile as she first believed. The closing scene is that of Frances' work being displayed and hailed as exceptional by the art school evaluators who previously criticized her work.

####The Swan####
In 1910, Princess Alexandra, the daughter of a minor branch of a European royal house, is urged by her mother to accept her cousin, Crown Prince Albert, as husband so that their family may regain a throne that was taken from them by Napoleon. Princess Alexandra tries to gain Albert's attention; he is otherwise taken with sleeping late, shooting ducks and playing football with Alexandra's two younger brothers. Alexandra's mother urges her to show interest in the tutor, Dr. Nicholas Agi, to make Albert jealous and stimulate a proposal from him.

Agi is already taken with Alexandra and when she invites him to the farewell ball for the crown prince, he eagerly accepts. Later, when they are dancing at the ball, it appears that Albert is getting jealous, but instead he is more interested in playing the bass viol in the orchestra.

Later, Agi tells Alexandra how he feels about her. She tells him that it was all a ploy to get Albert to propose to her and she suspected he felt this way. She realizes that she has some feelings for him, but he refuses her. Albert comes to discover about this situation and is a little taken aback. Albert and Agi trade insults. Agi then storms out and tries to leave the next morning.

Alexandra, distraught over what happened, tries to leave with him, but he refuses her again. Albert's mother, The Queen, shows up and is aghast upon hearing the entire story. Albert gives his blessing to the pair and says that when he becomes king, he will allow them back into the country. However, Agi ends up leaving the mansion without Alexandra.

Albert tries to console Alexandra by telling her she is like a swan: on the water she looks serene, but on land she is more like a goose. Albert then offers Alexandra his arm and they walk back into the mansion together.

####Sweet Charity####
Charity Hope Valentine works as a taxi dancer along with her friends, Nickie and Helene. She longs for love, but has bad luck with men, first seen when her married boyfriend, Charlie, pushes her off Gapstow Bridge in Central Park and steals her life savings of $427.  The Fandango Ballroom and its sleazily erotic setting are introduced by the song "Hey, Big Spender".  Charity shares her disappointment and hopes with her co-workers Nickie and Helene in several scenes throughout the film.

Somewhat later, Charity meets famous movie star Vittorio Vitale, just as he breaks up with his girlfriend Ursula. Charity goes to a nightclub, where the guests perform the "Rich Man's Frug," and later has dinner with Vittorio at his apartment.  When Vittorio leaves the room momentarily, Charity celebrates what seems to be her good fortune with the song "If They Could See Me Now". Right after, however, Ursula comes back to Vittorio, and Charity is forced to spend a humiliating night in a closet while Vittorio and Ursula make love and sleep together.  Charity again returns to the Fandango, where she, Nickie, and Helene commiserate on the building's rooftop with "There's Got to Be Something Better Than This".

Looking for a more respectable and rewarding line of work, Charity goes to an employment agency, but she is forced to admit that she has no special skills and has to leave when she admits her status.  In the building's elevator, though, Charity meets shy and claustrophobic Oscar Lindquist, and the two are attracted to each other when the elevator halts, trapping them together for hours.  The two go out together several times, including a visit to an alternative church presided over by a preacher named Big Daddy and "worshiping" with the song "The Rhythm of Life".

Although Charity has not told her background to the reserved and respectable Oscar, he proposes marriage and professes to be broadminded when she does finally tell him. Charity's hopes are once again lifted, celebrated in the huge production number "I'm a Brass Band".  Oscar meets Charity's friends at the Fandango when they throw a party for her. However at the marriage license bureau Oscar tells her that he has tried to accept her past but is unable to go through with the marriage.

Charity returns to the bridge in Central Park where she first appeared in the film and seems ready to throw herself off it, but a passing group of young hippies singing about love and peace hand her a flower, lifting her spirits.

####Sweet Home Alabama####
On a beach in the fictional town of Pigeon Creek, Alabama, 10-year-old Jake Perry and Melanie Smooter inspect the result of lightning striking sand. Jake asserts that they will be married one day.

In the present day, Melanie is a successful New York fashion designer who has adopted the surname "Carmichael" to hide her poor Southern roots. After wealthy Andrew Hennings proposes, Melanie returns to Alabama to announce her engagement to her parents and finalize a divorce from her husband Jake, whom she married as a pregnant teenager and left after she miscarried their baby. Meanwhile, Kate Hennings, Andrew's mother and the Mayor of New York City, doubts Melanie's suitability to wed her son, whom she is grooming to run for President of the United States.

Melanie visits Jake, who has repeatedly refused to sign divorce papers over the years since she left for New York. After he orders her out of his house, Melanie empties Jake's checking account, hoping to spur him into ending the marriage. Angry, Jake leaves to meet some friends at a local bar without signing the papers. Melanie follows and gets drunk, insults her old school friends, and outs her longtime friend, Bobby Ray. Jake scolds her and takes her home, preventing her from driving drunk, and Melanie wakes to find the signed divorce papers on her bed.

Melanie goes to the Carmichael plantation and apologizes to Bobby Ray, whose family lives there. She is cornered there by Kate's assistant, sent to gather information on Melanie's background. Bobby Ray backs up her pretense that she is a relative and the family mansion is her childhood home. Melanie reconciles with her friends and learns that after she split with Jake, he had followed her to New York to win her back. Intimidated by the city and her success, he returned home to make something of himself first. She and Jake have a heart-to-heart, and Melanie realises why he never signed their divorce papers.

Andrew arrives to surprise Melanie, but upon learning her true background and that she never told him she was married, he angrily leaves. He later returns, saying he still wants to marry her, and the wedding is immediately set in motion. Melanie's New York friends arrive for the event. While visiting a nearby restaurant/resort with a glassblowing gallery, they admire the glass sculptures that are similar to ones they have seen in New York. Melanie realizes Jake is the artist and that he owns the resort.

During Melanie and Andrew's wedding at the Carmichael estate, a lawyer arrives and halts the ceremony. He has the divorce papers, which Melanie hadn't signed. Melanie confesses that she still loves Jake and cancels the wedding. She and Andrew wish each other well, though Kate berates Andrew and insults Melanie, her family, and the entire town, for which Melanie punches her in the face. Melanie finds Jake at the beach planting lightning rods in the sand during a rainstorm to create more glass sculptures. She tells him they are still married, they return to what would have been Melanie and Andrew's reception, and finally, have their first dance as husband and wife.

A mid-credits sequence shows that they have a baby daughter, Melanie continues to thrive as a designer, and Jake opens a "Deep South Glass" franchise in New York. Andrew is engaged to a girl named Erin Vanderbilt.

####The Sweet Life####
After a long day with no sales, Kenny Pantalio, an ice cream salesman for The Sweet Life, goes to a bridge. There, he meets Lolita Nowicki, an actuary. The two discuss their suicidal feelings and discover that they have the same therapist, Frank. They walk through Chicago, discussing the various forms of therapy suggested by Frank. As they pass a hotel, a man in a Mercedes mistakes Kenny for a valet and hands him the car keys. Lolita takes them and encourages Kenny to join her on a road trip to the Golden Gate Bridge, where they can both commit suicide. Kenny hesitates but goes along with her.

Their first stop is at a convenience store, where Lolita impulsively tells the clerk that Kenny has a gun. The clerk says that he must see the gun before he can give them any money, and they admit that they do not have one. After they leave, Kenny says that he is embarrassed, but Lolita says that he is boring and takes few chances in life. They notice two hillbilly hitchhikers by the side of the road, and Lolita demands that they stop and give them a ride. The hitchhikers, Marlon and Brandon, decline their offer. Lolita tries to convince them to get in the car. They continue to refuse until Kenny says that he has a gun. After they get in the car, the men, who are married, say they are traveling to a UFO museum to scatter the ashes of Marlon's late grandmother. Affected by their hard-luck tale, Lolita gives them the Mercedes without consulting Kenny. Kenny and Lolita argue.

The next morning, Kenny steals a car. To their shock, they find a human kidney in storage on the back seat. A call to the cell phone in the car reveals that the kidney is overdue for a transplant. On the way to the hospital, they are pulled over. Lolita convinces the cops to give them a police escort. At the hospital, the patient's family thanks them. Kenny and Lolita stop at a motel. Lolita tries to initiate sex, but Kenny explains that he is impotent, and he cannot perform. The county sheriff arrives to tell them the kidney transplant was a success but that he knows the car is stolen. He drops them off at a bus station to leave town.

On the bus, Kenny checks Lolita's cell phone and discovers that Frank has been sending her text messages. Kenny asks if she is having sex with Frank, and they argue. Lolita leaves Kenny and gets a ride with several men while Kenny continues on the bus. Kenny then sees Lolita fighting with the men on the side of the road. He gets off the bus and confronts them. Lolita produces a pistol. When one of the men insults Lolita, Kenny forces the man at gunpoint to apologize to her. Thankful, Lolita suggests to Kenny that they continue traveling together. They stop to visit Kenny's ex-fiancee. He asks why she left him at the altar, and she says that he was directionless. Marlon and Brandon pick up Kenny and Lolita in the Mercedes, and they drive the rest of the way to the museum. Marlon and Brandon leave the Mercedes when they learn that it is stolen, and Kenny and Lolita proceed to California.

Lolita pays for a luxury suite at a high-class hotel, explaining that their road trip would have been pointless had she previously used her credit card. They go to visit Lolita's mother, and Lolita reveals that her real name is Alma. Kenny helps her reconcile with her mother, who is suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Lolita says that the disease runs in her family. They go back to the hotel room. Lolita reads Kenny her poetry, and they have sex. When Kenny wakes up afterwards, he sees that Lolita is gone. He rushes to the Golden Gate Bridge, where Lolita is about to jump into the water. He says that he is also going to jump, and she stops him from doing so. The two then decide to live and to be together.

####Swept Away####
Amber Leighton is a wealthy, spoiled socialite wife of a millionaire who joins two other couples on a private cruise from Italy to Greece. Amber develops an instant and intense dislike for Giuseppe, a deckhand, and insults him mercilessly throughout the trip. During the trip, she insists on being taken out on a dinghy for a lark, overruling Giuseppe's warnings about an oncoming storm.

During their dinghy trip, Amber berates Giuseppe incessantly, which only intensifies once they run out of gas. Through a series of mishaps, Amber damages the dinghy and they end up washing ashore on a deserted island.

On the island, Giuseppe gains the upper hand in their interactions due to his survival skills. As the roles reverse, Giuseppe becomes more dominant in his treatment of Amber, while she concurrently becomes more submissive and cowering. Their relationship evolves into intimacy.

Eventually, the two are rescued and return to their normal lives. Giuseppe attempts to reach out to Amber, to rekindle their relationship, but his messages receive no reply. Giuseppe believes that Amber has rejected him, and is despondent. However, it is revealed at the end that his letters have been intercepted by Amber's wealthy husband, who ensures that Amber never sees them or Giuseppe again.

####Swing High, Swing Low####
Working her way as a hairdresser on board a liner traveling through the Panama Canal Zone, Maggie King (Carole Lombard) brushes off a brash young soldier, "Skid" Johnson (Fred MacMurray), on his last day in the Army. However, he is persistent, and the next day she and her friend Ella reluctantly go on a double date with him and his piano player friend Harry (Charles Butterworth) in Balboa. In a nightclub, she expresses her distaste of trumpet music, whereupon he impresses her with his amazing prowess with the instrument. When a man (Anthony Quinn, speaking only Spanish) tries to pick her up at the bar, he and Skid end up brawling, which lands Skid and Maggie in jail. As a result, Maggie misses her ship back to the States.

With no money left after helping pay the fine, she is forced to move in with Skid and Harry. She talks a skeptical Murphy (a woman) into hiring the unambitious Skid and her as a trumpet player and showgirl, respectively, at "Murphy's Cafe y Bar" by telling Murphy that they are married. She clashes with fellow showgirl Anita Alvarez (Dorothy Lamour), Skid's former girlfriend, but Anita soon leaves for a better job. Maggie and Skid eventually fall in love and marry.

Maggie prods the reluctant Skid into going to New York City to play in a major nightclub, leaving her behind. She finds out afterward that Anita works there. He is a big success, teamed with songstress Anita. Fame and fortune go to his head. He neglects to send Maggie the fare to join him and does not answer her letters. Finally, Maggie borrows the money from Murphy. Anita intercepts her telegram to Skid, telling him where to meet her boat. After waiting at the pier for a long time, Maggie calls Anita's hotel room on a hunch, and a drunk Skid answers (Anita invited him in for a nightcap after a night on the town together). Maggie divorces him. Ella finds out and tells her old boyfriend, wealthy rancher Harvey Howell. Mary plans to sail to France to obtain a divorce and marry Harvey.

Skid is so devastated, he starts drinking and missing performances, costing him his job and his career. Finally, he tries to reenlist, but fails the physical exam. Then, he runs into Harry, who has been searching for him. Harry has gotten a band together for a live radio performance to audition for an important sponsor, and (to help his old friend out) wants Skid to play with them. Skid's old agent Georgie tries to get Maggie, just returned from France, to pull Skid into shape. She rushes over and does her best. During the broadcast, Skid is terrible at first, but after Maggie tells him that she is sticking to him "til death do us part", he recaptures his old brilliance.

####Swing Shift####
Jack Walsh enlists as a U.S. Naval Seaman shortly after the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor, at the start of US involvement in World War II. His wife Kay signs up to work in an armaments factory in California while he is overseas in naval service.

Through the factory, the lonely and vulnerable Kay finally befriends her neighbor Hazel, a club singer. Months pass with Lucky, another factory worker and musician, hitting on her weekly until finally she agrees to go out with him after five months. Soon after arriving on their date, Kay spots her landlords, ducking out before they can spot her. She tells Lucky she can't as she's married, and goes home alone.

A short time later, the factory throws a party on the weekend to celebrate their success. Kay and Hazel eventually convince each other to go. At the jamboree Kay finally sees Lucky play the trumpet. This time she lets him take her home, finally falling for his charms.

The three of them enjoy their time together until Kay's husband comes home by surprise in the summer of 1944 on a 48h secret leave. Finding them at Hazel's, Jack collects Kay to their house.

Looking through the closet for his clothes, Jack sees the Leadman work shirt and assumes it's some man's. Kay explains she was promoted at the factory. Over dinner he bluntly confronts her, as he's realized what has occurred. The next morning Jack returns early to his ship.

Meanwhile, at the end of their shift at the factory, Lucky invites Hazel to the club. Afterwards, he takes her home and they sleep together. Kay shows up in a taxi, but upon seeing Hazel she returns home.

Later, Hazel comes over to Kay's and they seem to have made peace. However, the three go out together and a very drunk Kay and Hazel trade insults and Lucky takes Kay home. In the morning, he tells he's going on tour with a band.

The airplane factory lets the women go once the Japanese surrender, the servicemen come home. So Kay sends Lucky a farewell letter, Jack comes back to her, and Hazel marries the club owner.

####Swingers####
Mike Peters is a struggling comedian who left New York to find success in Los Angeles, and is still upset over his girlfriend of six years, Michelle, breaking up with him six months prior. To help Mike with his depression, his womanizing friend Trent and some other aspiring actor friends try and get him back into the social scene.

The movie opens with Mike telling his friend Rob about how desperately he misses Michelle and that she has not called him. Rob explains that "somehow" women "know" not to call their ex-boyfriends until they have completely moved on from them.

To help Mike recover, Trent coaxes him into an impromptu trip to Las Vegas. Trent succeeds in picking up two waitresses, but his obsession with Michelle ruins Trent's plans. The women seem interested, but Mike spoils the mood, telling his date about her.

Back in Los Angeles, Mike, Rob and other friends golf, play video games, and go out. All of them trying to make it in the entertainment industry. Then they go bar hopping, stopping at a party, and later an after-hours spot, where Trent demonstrates his prowess in handling the opposite sex. Inspired by this, Mike meets a woman named Nikki and gets her phone number. His friends insist he wait two days minimum before calling.

Back at his apartment, however, he leaves a series of increasingly anxious and desperate messages on Nikki's answering machine in the middle of the night, until she picks up the phone and disgustedly orders him not to call her again. Missing Michelle more than ever, he contemplates moving back to New York until Rob comes over and consoles him.

Out again for swing night at The Derby, Mike spots a woman named Lorraine. He summons all his courage to approach and connect with her. They both recently broke off relationships and moved to LA, and dance well together.

The following morning, Mike receives a call from Michelle, and finds that he no longer misses her. When Lorraine calls him, Mike cuts off his call with Michelle mid sentence saying she loves him, to further things with Lorraine. Like him, she disregarded friends' advice to wait days before calling.

####The Switch####
30-something Kassie Larson is single, hasn't found love yet, and decides she wants to have a baby. Despite the objections of her long-time best friend Wally Mars, she chooses to do so alone because she can't wait any longer. She also wants a face-to-face sperm donor, disdaining using a sperm bank.

Wally suggests he be the donor, but Kassie believes he is too neurotic, pessimistic, and self-absorbed. Since they are best friends, she thinks "that would be weird." He has always had feelings for Kassie, and they dated six years ago. His friend Leonard points out he missed his chance when she relegated him to the "friend zone."

Kassie selects Roland Nilson as her sperm donor; he is a handsome, charming, and married assistant professor at Columbia University. She organizes an "insemination party", where Wally meets Roland and takes an instant dislike to him. Roland produces his sperm in the bathroom, leaving it in a sample cup. Wally uses the bathroom and sees the sample. Drunk, he plays with the cup and accidentally spills it into the sink. Panicking, he replaces the sperm with his own.

The next day at work, still hungover, he remembers nothing. The insemination is successful and Kassie becomes pregnant. Wally is upset when she says that she is returning to her childhood home town in Minnesota, as she thinks it would be a better place to raise a child than New York City. She leaves, and Wally sinks into a dreary period.

Seven years later, Kassie returns to New York with Sebastian, her precocious and neurotic six-year-old. She wants to reconnect with Wally, and eagerly introduces her boy to him and Wally eventually bonds with Sebastian. Roland is in the picture, as he got divorced and Kassie has started dating him. She believes he is Sebastian's biological father and the relationship might work.

Wally notices the strong similarities between him and Sebastian and realizes the result of the switch seven years earlier. Just before Roland proposes to Kassie, Wally reveals to her that Sebastian is his biological son, and he loves her. Shocked and angry about the switch, she rejects him.

After some time passes, Wally finds Kassie waiting for him one day after he leaves work. She says that Sebastian really misses and needs him. Wally admits he misses and needs Sebastian, too. Kassie says that she is no longer with Roland and has realized she loves Wally, so he proposes. The final scene shows a happily married Wally and Kassie giving Sebastian an eighth birthday party.

####The Talk of the Town####
Mill worker and political activist Leopold Dilg (Cary Grant) is accused of arson and murder, setting fire to a woolen mill, killing the mill foreman, Clyde Bracken. In the middle of the trial, Dilg escapes from jail and seeks shelter in a remote cottage owned by former schoolmate Nora Shelley (Jean Arthur), on whom he has had a crush for years. Shelley, now a schoolteacher, has rented the unoccupied cottage for the summer to distinguished law professor Michael Lightcap (Ronald Colman), who plans to use this secluded location to write a book. Both Lightcap and Dilg arrive within minutes of each other, so Shelley decides to hide Dilg in the attic.

When Dilg is spotted by Lightcap, Shelley passes him off as her gardener, Joseph. A visitor suddenly arrives, Senator Boyd. The senator informs Lightcap that he is about to be nominated to the Supreme Court by the president.  Meanwhile, Lightcap and Dilg enjoy having spirited discussions about the law, Lightcap arguing from an academic viewpoint, with Dilg subscribing to a more practical approach. As a result of their spirited debates, they become good friends, but also romantic rivals, as Lightcap falls in love with Nora.

As a result of prodding by Shelley and Dilg's lawyer, Lightcap becomes suspicious of mill owner Andrew Holmes, foreman Clyde Bracken and Regina Bush.  In spite of his initial reluctance, Lightcap starts to investigate the charges against Dilg. As a ruse, he romances Bush, the girlfriend of the supposed murder victim and discovers that foreman Bracken is still alive and hiding in Boston. Shelley, Lightcap and Dilg go to Boston and find him. They bring him back to Lochester and get him to admit his guilt and that of the mill owner for setting the fire.

While the three argue about whether to call the police, Bracken catches them unawares, knocks them unconscious and escapes. Dilg is held for trial while the town's anger at him is stoked into a riotous mob.  Lightcap takes a gun from the cottage and seeks out the foreman, forcing him at gunpoint to go to the courthouse just as the mob is about to break in to lynch Dilg.

Firing the revolver to draw attention, Lightcap announces that the supposedly dead foreman is now present.  He then gives an impassioned speech to the mob about the importance of the law, both in principle and in practice.  In due course, the foreman and owner of the mill are indicted and Dilg is set free.

Soon afterwards Lightcap is appointed to the Supreme Court. Shelley visits him in his chambers and he tells her that his dream of 20 years has been realized.  With more happiness than a man could want, he says the only thing left is to see his friends likewise happy, and suggests that Shelley should marry Dilg.

While both Dilg and Shelley are attending court at the first seating of Lightcap as an Associate Justice, Dilg interprets an affectionate look shared between Lightcap and Shelley as a sign that she has chosen to marry Lightcap, and leaves the courtroom abruptly. Shelley follows him, and Dilg eventually realises that she has chosen him.

####The Teaser####
Ann Barton (Laura La Plante), a girl from a once-wealthy family, must make a living by clerking in a cigar store. There she meets and falls in love with James McDonald (Pat O'Malley), a cigar salesman.  She is then adopted by Margaret Wyndham (Hedda Hopper), her rich and aristocratic aunt, who disapproves of James due to his crude manners. Wishing to break up the two, Aunt Margaret sends Ann away to finishing school.  In response, Ann acts out publicly and embarrasses her aunt. In the meantime, James learns how to be a proper gentleman and wins her back through having learned good manners and a more dignified bearing.

####Tell It to the Marines####
In 1924, "Skeet" Burns applies to join the United States Marine Corps, but only to get a free train ride to San Diego, California. When he arrives, he escapes from veteran Marine Sergeant O'Hara and boards another train to "Tia Juana", Mexico for the horse races. However, upon his return, he enlists after all and comes under O'Hara's charge.

At the base, Skeet spots Norma Dale, an attractive Navy nurse. He tries to become better acquainted with her, but his unsubtle, overconfident approach meets with a cold reception. He also discovers that O'Hara is smitten with Norma as well. It becomes clear to O'Hara that Norma does like Skeet when she asks him to take Skeet along on a sea training cruise despite his unsatisfactory performance and attitude. She finds he has already done so. On board ship, Skeet picks a fight with a "gob", a sailor, unaware that his intended victim is actually the Navy heavyweight champion.

O'Hara and his men are assigned to Tondo Island, a dreary naval station described as being "six miles this side of Hell". There, he is tempted by Zaya, a pretty native who is attracted to him. Before things get too serious however, he changes his mind. When she tries to hold onto him, he has to untangle himself from her. This results in a brawl with the outraged locals in which O'Hara has to rescue Skeet. Hearing unflattering gossip about the affair, Norma writes Skeet a letter breaking off their relationship. Skeet mistakenly believes O'Hara told her about the incident in order to improve his own romantic chances with Norma.

The Marines are relieved and are sent to join the Asiatic Squadron, stationed at Shanghai, China. O'Hara and Skeet find Norma there where is she is serving on a Navy hospital ship; she greets the sergeant warmly, but refuses to give Skeet a second chance. She and other nurses are then sent to Hangchow to deal with an epidemic. When news arrives that a bandit army is threatening the city, the Marines are ordered to the rescue. During the tense evacuation, O'Hara and his men are chosen to be the rear guard at a bridge. Fierce fighting breaks out. When O'Hara is wounded, he orders Skeet to rejoin the column, but Skeet refuses to obey. The detachment is saved by the timely arrival of an aerial squadron.

After his four-year enlistment ends, Skeet and Norma buy a ranch, in which Skeet offers O'Hara a partnership. However, the old veteran declines, saying that he and the Marine Corps are made for each other.

####Telling You####
Two college graduates find themselves back home in Long island stuck behind the counter of a pizza parlor and frustrated about their life's perspectives, while their friends move on, struggle to find a new direction for their lives.

####Terms of Endearment####
Widowed Aurora Greenway keeps several suitors at arm's length in River Oaks, Houston, focusing instead on her close, but controlling, relationship with daughter Emma. Anxious to escape her mother, Emma marries callow young college professor Flap Horton over her mother's objections. Despite their frequent spats and difficulty getting along with each other, Emma and Aurora have very close ties and keep in touch by telephone.

Emma and Flap move to Iowa in order for him to pursue a career as an English professor, but they run into financial difficulties. Emma has three children, and over the course of the next few years the marriage begins to fray. While at the grocery store, Emma does not have the money to pay for her groceries and meets Sam Burns, who pays for them. They strike up a friendship and quickly an affair as Sam's wife refuses to have sex with him and Emma suspects Flap of infidelity. Meanwhile, the lonely Aurora overcomes her repression and begins a whirlwind romance with her next-door neighbor, retired astronaut Garrett Breedlove. Emma catches Flap flirting with one of his students and drives back to Texas immediately. There, Garrett develops cold feet about his relationship with Aurora and breaks it off. While Emma is gone, Flap decides to take a promotion in Nebraska; Emma and the children return to Iowa, and they move to Nebraska.

Emma finds out Flap moved them to Nebraska, so he could work with his girlfriend. Emma is diagnosed with cancer, which becomes terminal. Aurora and Flap stay by Emma's side through her treatment and hospitalization. Garrett flies to Nebraska to be with Aurora and the family during this. The dying Emma shows her love for her mother by entrusting her children to Aurora's care.

####Then Came You####
Skye Aitken is a adolescent girl who is told she has reached the final stages of her cancer and has little time left. Calvin Lewis is a young man working as a baggage handler at the airport along with his father and elder brother Frank. At work, Calvin has a crush on Izzy, a flight attendant, but has difficulty talking to her. Calvin struggles to interact with others since he has a constant fear that he is dying. His doctor thinks he's a hypochondriac, though Calvin denies it, and advises him to go to a support group for those with cancer to gain a different perspective.

At the meeting, Calvin encounters Skye, who immediately shows an interest in him. Although he tries to explain to Skye that he doesn't have cancer, they quickly become friends and Calvin offers to help Skye finish her list of things to do before she dies. Initially annoyed with her blunt, unpredictable behavior, Calvin eventually confesses that he enjoys being her friend and misses her when she's not around. Skye goes to a high school party with Calvin, where she sees one of her friends make out with Will, a guy whom she has a crush on. As Calvin and Skye begin to spend more time together, Calvin slowly overcomes his fear of dying.

Skye manages to set up a date for Calvin with Izzy, during which she falsely informs Izzy that Calvin also has cancer. Izzy then begins to show more interest in Calvin, and the two begin dating. Skye reveals to Calvin that she has always been aware that Calvin does not have cancer, even so, Calvin hesitates to tell Izzy the truth as he is worried that she only likes him because she thinks he has cancer. Skye learns from Lucy, Calvin's sister-in-law, that his mother "shut down" after the death of his twin sister in a car accident when they were 8 years old while their mother was driving. Calvin finally admits to Izzy on a date that he doesn't have cancer, but she breaks up with him because she is hurt that he lied to her. Skye decides to lose her virginity to Will.

Calvin becomes depressed after his breakup with Izzy and stops going to work, but his father convinces him to go back to work. Meanwhile Skye admits to Calvin that she was disappointed after losing her virginity to Will because it happened so quickly. After Skye passes out in public and is sent to the hospital, Lucy simultaneously goes into labor, allowing Calvin and Skye to be  able to meet his new niece. Frank and Lucy announce that they want Skye and Calvin to be the baby's godparents, even as Skye points out that she does not have long to live. Calvin begins to have a panic attack but Frank helps him calm down and reminds him that Skye still needs him to be there for her.

Calvin makes efforts to help Skye finish the rest of things to do on her lists with a little help from Izzy and Skye's parents. Calvin reveals to Skye that he stopped celebrating birthdays for the sake of his mother after his twin sister's death. After Skye passes away, Calvin receives birthday cards in the mail from her to make up for the ones he didn’t celebrate. He finally finds the courage to face his fear of heights and decides to take a trip on a plane. During take-off, Izzy and Calvin continuously make eye-contact with each other, implying that they may be planning to reconcile their relationship.

####There's Always Vanilla####
"There's Always Vanilla" follows the life of Chris Bradley (Raymond Laine) a former U.S. Army soldier who has become a drifter and makes money by various means, from pimping to guitar playing. After working with a band in New York City, Chris returns to his home city of Pittsburgh and visits his father who owns and operates a baby food factory. After an evening out with his father of drinking at a local bar, and visiting an old girlfriend named Terri Terrific (Johanna Lawrence), Mr. Bradley wants Chris to abandon his bohemian lifestyle and do what was agreed upon when he separated from the military; return to the family business, but Chris refuses.

At a local train station, Chris meets Lynn (Judith Ridley; billed as Judith Streiner) a beautiful young woman who works as a model and actress in local TV commercials. Chris charms his way into Lynn's life and moves in with her. At first their relationship is a pleasant escape from daily life, but when Lynn starts to resent supporting the freeloading Chris, she motivates him into getting a steady job. Lynn learns that she's pregnant and, knowing how irresponsible he is, decides to get an abortion without telling Chris.

Chris lands a job at a small advertising firm but when he's given an account to advertise enlistments for the U.S. Army, he quits out of his resentment of his military past. Meanwhile, Lynn cannot bring herself to have an abortion, she abandons Chris, and moves in with a high school boyfriend who agrees to marry her and raise the baby as his own.

His romance with Lynn ruined and his lifestyle destroyed, Chris swallows his pride and moves back in with his father, still unable to decide what to do with his life, but believing he ultimately must accept the old values like his father has. Chris has more encouragement after a talk at dinner at a Howard Johnson's with his father where he tells Chris that life is like an ice cream parlor, and that of all of life's most exotic flavors to choose from, there's always vanilla to fall back on.

The film's final scene shows a very pregnant Lynn living in a suburban house with her new husband. A large packaged box arrives at their house addressed to Lynn with Chris' home address on it. Upon opening the box on the front lawn of their house as instructed on the box, two helium-filled balloons float out of it and float away into the bright blue sky. On the bottom of the box is a note from Chris addressed to Lynn telling her to always remember the care-free time they had together.

####The Thing Called Love####
Miranda Presley is an aspiring singer/songwriter from New York City who loves country music and decides to take her chances in Nashville, Tennessee, where she hopes to become a star. Arriving after a long bus ride, Miranda makes her way to the Bluebird Café, a local bar with a reputation as a showcase for new talent. Although she arrives too late to audition for that week's roster, the bar's owner Lucy likes the plucky newcomer and gives her a job as a waitress.

By the café's second week of auditions, Miranda has become familiar with some other Nashville transplants who are looking to land a gig or sell a song. This includes sweet and open-hearted Kyle Davidson of Connecticut, moody but talented James Wright from Texas, and spunky Linda Lue Linden of Alabama. Linda Lue talks Miranda into sharing her motel room, which her mother is subsidizing. As the four friends struggle to find their place in the competitive Nashville music scene, both Kyle and James display a romantic interest in Miranda, but she is drawn to James in spite of his moody temperament.

James convinces Miranda to spend time together, partially under the pretense of writing music. They have a date ending with a kiss, but he does not follow through with a telephone call the next day. Days later they coincide in a recording studio, and he practically ignores her.

Convincing Kyle that a song he wrote is good enough to be sung by an established singer, Miranda helps him sneak the tape into a singer's car's tapedeck. Unfortunately, the police notice and apprehend them. The singer follows them, listening to the tape on the way. Enamored, she chooses not to press charges and tells Kyle she would like the song.

Out dancing on a double date with Kyle and Linda Lue and her boyfriend, Miranda line dances. James is called to perform his music, and for his second song, he asks her to help him sing it. Singing together, their chemistry is palpable. Kyle is visibly upset when Miranda tells him she is leaving with James.

They have a whirlwind romance. Miranda moves in with James, and in a few short days they take an impromptu road trip to Graceland. In a convenience store, he obtains a toy ring from a candy dispenser, and he proposes marriage. One of the clerks gets her brother to officiate a brief ceremony, and they return to Nashville married.

At the café that evening, James and Kyle come to blows over Miranda. The subsequent months, the newlyweds soon realize marriage takes work. They rarely see each other because of her odd sleeping hours and his isolating himself in his practice room.

James leaves Miranda behind to make his album for some months in Texas, what he always wanted to do. He realizes he left his heart with her, so he comes back to the Bluebird Café, seeking Miranda, but he learns that she has left for New York City.

Miranda returns and sings a new song which finally earns her a spot performing in the Bluebird, before tentatively reuniting with James. Kyle joins them as Linda Lue leaves for New York to try acting, and the remaining three discuss writing a song together.

####Things I Never Told You####
The film opens with a voice-over by Don, who states that in life and relationships, "anything can happen."

Ann works at a camera shop in a small town in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. One day, she gets dumped by her boyfriend who is in Prague by phone. She makes a halfhearted suicide attempt by drinking a bottle of nail polish remover. After leaving the hospital, her psychiatrist gives her the number of a crisis help line. One evening, still distraught over being abandoned by her boyfriend, Ann calls the number and speaks with Don, who volunteers there because he finds it less depressing to talk with other depressed people about their problems than to stay at home and feel sorry for himself. They make an emotional connection, but she hangs up on him when Don admits that he doesn't really know what love is.

Ann begins making a series of emotional videos addressing her ex-boyfriend about how desolate and lonely she is. She gives the tapes to a neighbor who works at a package delivery service to send to Prague, but he secretly opens the packages and watches the tapes, becoming infatuated with Ann.

In an apparent coincidence sometime after they spoke on the phone, Don walks into the camera shop where Ann works and buys a camera for his work as a real estate agent. She makes a comment about happiness being "unfair", similar to something she said to him when she called the help line. He realizes who she is but does not say anything. Attracted to her, Don waits for her to finish work and approaches her. Ann invites him to help her do her wash at a local laundromat. They talk and she invites him to come to her house in a couple of days. When Don comes over, they have sex. Ann secretly tapes this encounter with the intention of sending the tape to her ex-boyfriend (but once again, the neighbor holds onto it and watches the tape).

After their encounter, Ann ducks Don's calls. A couple of days later, he is asked by the police to persuade a man who he had been counseling to come out of a hotel room where he has a gun. He talks to him and prevents him from killing himself but is badly injured when the gun goes off, hurting both. When Ann hears what has happened, she rushes to the hospital, staying until Don is out of danger.

Ann's ex calls to say he wants to get back together. She hastily packs and leaves town without leaving word to Don or her ex.  Don goes home from the hospital and becomes a corporate real estate agent who must travel. The film ends with Don musing about what he would tell Ann if he saw her while sitting on a park bench. A woman walks by, looks at him, sits down, and smiles at him. He looks up, seeing it is Ann. Before the credits roll, we hear a voice-over of Don saying again, "Anything can happen."

####Three Coins in the Fountain####
Young American secretary Maria Williams arrives in Rome and is greeted by Anita Hutchins, the woman whom she is replacing at the United States Distribution Agency. They drive to the Villa Eden, which Anita shares with Miss Frances, the longtime secretary of the American author John Frederick Shadwell, an expatriate living in Rome. On their way into town, the three women stop at the famous Trevi Fountain. Frances and Anita tell Maria that according to legend, if she throws a coin in the fountain and makes a wish to return to Rome, she will. Maria and Frances throw in their coins, but Anita, who is planning to return to the United States to marry, declines.

Anita takes Maria to the agency and introduces her to Giorgio Bianchi, a translator with whom she works. Maria senses that Anita and Giorgio are attracted to each other, though Anita states that the agency forbids its American and Italian employees to fraternize. Later that evening at a party, Maria is attracted by the handsome Prince Dino di Cessi, despite being warned by Frances and Anita about his being a notorious womanizer. His girlfriends become known as "Venice girls" after he takes them to Venice for romantic trysts. Dino charms Maria, telling her to ignore what she's heard about him.

After the party, Anita and Maria walk home and Anita admits that she has no fiancé waiting back in the United States. She's leaving because she believes she has a better chance of finding a husband in America; wealthy Italian men are not interested in mere secretaries, and the men who are interested are too poor. As they walk, Maria is pinched by a man who pesters her until she is rescued by Giorgio, who then asks Anita to go with him the next day to his family's country farm to attend a celebration. Anita reluctantly agrees.

The next morning, Giorgio picks Anita up in his cousin's dilapidated truck. On their way out of town, they are spotted by her boss, Burgoyne. On Giorgio's family farm, Giorgio tells Anita that he hopes to become a lawyer, despite his poverty. Anita then climbs into the truck and is almost killed when it rolls down the hill. After Giorgio rescues her, the breathless couple give in to their attraction and they kiss. Meanwhile, back at the apartment, Dino calls for Maria and asks if she will accompany him to Venice. Desiring to see Venice but not wanting to lose Dino's respect, Maria arranges for Frances to chaperone them — to Dino's disappointment.

At the agency on Monday, Burgoyne questions Maria about Anita's weekend with Giorgio and although she maintains that Anita did nothing wrong, Burgoyne assumes Anita is having an affair with Giorgio. The following day, he fires Giorgio. When Anita learns about this, she blames Maria for betraying her confidence and insists on moving out of their apartment. She visits Giorgio, worried that she might have ruined his chances of becoming a lawyer. Giorgio has no regrets.

Meanwhile, Maria sets out to attract Dino's affections. She learns about the modern art he loves, his favorite food and wine, and pretends to learn the piccolo (his favorite instrument). Maria even lies about her background, telling Dino she is three-quarters Italian. Beguiled by how much he apparently has in common with Maria, Dino introduces her to his mother, the Principessa, who expresses her approval. Later, Dino confides in Maria that she is the only girl whom he has ever completely trusted. Troubled by her deception, Maria confesses her subterfuge, even showing Dino her notebook listing his interests. He angrily takes her home.

Frances meets Anita, who admits that she and Giorgio are in love but will not marry because he is too poor. Frances returns home to comfort the guilt-stricken Maria, who is also determined to leave Rome because Dino has not contacted her since her admission. Frances tells her she is glad she is no longer young and susceptible to romance. The next morning, however, Frances suddenly announces to Shadwell that she is returning to the United States, explaining that she does not want to end up as an old maid in a foreign country. Shadwell, unaware that Frances has been deeply in love with him for fifteen years, offers her a marriage of convenience based on mutual respect. Eager to be with him under any circumstances, Frances accepts.

The next day, Shadwell learns that he is terminally ill and has less than a year to live unless he goes to America for experimental treatment. Shadwell returns to his villa and coldly breaks off his engagement to Frances. After Shadwell leaves, Frances learns from his doctor the truth about Shadwell's condition, and then follows him to a café, where she proceeds to match him drink for drink while bickering about whether he should pursue treatment. Completely drunk, Frances climbs into a nearby fountain and sobs about her life. After Shadwell takes her back to the villa and tucks her in, he goes to see Dino at the di Cessi palace. Shadwell tells Dino he is leaving for the United States where he will marry Frances. He uses reverse psychology to provoke Dino into realizing that he loves Maria.

After Anita and Maria are packed and ready to leave, Frances telephones and asks to meet them at the Trevi Fountain. When they arrive, Maria and Anita are disappointed to see the fountain emptied for cleaning. When they are joined by Frances, however, the water springs up again, and the women are thrilled by its beauty. Dino and Giorgio then arrive, and as the men embrace their girlfriends, Frances is joined by Shadwell, and they happily admire the fountain, which has proved lucky to them all.

####Three Months####
On the eve of his high school graduation, Caleb Kahn, a South Florida boy realizes he has been exposed to HIV. While he waits three months for the definitive tests on his status, he finds love in the most unlikely of places, and gets help from many new friends.

####Tin Cup####
Roy "Tin Cup" McAvoy is a former golf prodigy leading a generally aimless existence. He owns a ramshackle driving range in West Texas, where he drinks and hangs out with his pal Romeo Posar and their friends. One day Dr. Molly Griswold, a clinical psychologist, arrives looking for a golf lesson. She has been dating David Simms, a top professional golfer who played with Roy in college. Roy soon becomes attracted to Molly.

The next day David Simms shows up at Roy's trailer ahead of a local benefit tournament. Roy thinks he is being invited to play, but Simms actually wants to hire him as a caddie (since Roy knows the course). During the round, Roy needles Simms about laying up instead of having the nerve to take a 230-yard shot over a water hazard. A bet among the other players is made and Simms fires Roy after he makes the long shot.

To get even with Simms, Roy decides to try to qualify for the U.S. Open. He makes a play for Molly who is already his therapist.

In the first qualifying round, with Romeo as his caddie, Roy's game is excellent, but his head needs help. Roy insists on playing recklessly and he demands the driver instead of the safe play which is laying up. Roy and Romeo fight and Romeo quits. Amazingly, Roy still manages to advance to the final qualifying round.

Without Romeo, Roy barely succeeds at the sectional qualifying round, earning a spot in the U.S. Open. Romeo returns and helps Roy with some swing problems.

On the first day of the U.S Open, Roy, playing hungover, shoots a horrendous 83. Meanwhile, Molly sees Simms' unpleasant side and decides she truly wants to help Roy. With renewed confidence, McAvoy shocks the golf world by making the cut with a U.S. Open round record at 10 under par. Roy's third round is also excellent and moves him into contention.

On the last day of the U.S. Open tournament, Roy is in a three-way battle to win. For the fourth day in a row, Roy takes a shot that repeatedly fails to keep the ball out of the water hazard. On his twelfth and final shot, facing disqualification, he reaches the green and amazingly, it goes in the hole. Roy realizes that he has blown a shot at winning the U.S. Open, but Molly re-assures him about how people will always remember his amazing shot.

Back in Texas, Molly tells Roy that he automatically qualified for next year's Open due to his standing. They kiss passionately as the movie ends.

####1 Mile to You####
When a teenager loses his girlfriend in a horrible and devastating accident, he finds that his running keeps him connected to her during his "runner's high" moments in which his heart elates and becomes ecstatic. Chasing her memory drives him to run faster and win races for his new coach. Before long, his newfound notoriety attracts the attention of a whip-smart new girl who is determined to find out what's really going on inside him.

####The 5th Monkey####
Cunda (Kingsley) lives deep in the Brazilian rainforest and is intent on making enough money so he can marry a widow in his village. However, his trade - capturing snakes for scientists - pays very little money, and he is in direct competition with other suitors.

One day, Cunda is bitten by a snake, and he crawls to the river to recover. While going through the agonizing recovery, he has an hallucination of four chimpanzees sitting in the river. Recovered, he returns home and finds the four chimpanzees waiting for him, and his efforts to shoo them away fail. Knowing that chimpanzees are not native to Brazil, he decides that they are a kind of supernatural gift for him. Believing this, he decides to take them to "the city" to sell them.

The journey isn't easy from the start; he discovers that he can't tie them on a rope and drag them, and the only way is to coax them. They stumble into a gold-panning camp, where Cunda is forced to work in order to pay off an old debt. When one of the monkeys is taken as payment, Cunda must figure how to retrieve the monkey and escape. Later, he, the monkeys and the adults of a village are kidnapped by mercenaries. Cunda and the monkeys escape, along with a village woman who refuses to leave his side. Arriving at a small town, a confusing sequence results in one of the monkeys disappearing, and Cunda becoming the servant of the local rich woman who has taken it upon herself to take care of the monkeys. Cunda now has to solve these two problems, and deal with the fact of the village woman's attraction to him plus his growing fondness of the monkeys.

####6 Years####
A young couple, Melanie Clark and Daniel Mercer, experience joyful moments in their relationship, including having passionate sex. After a house party one night, Mel drives to Dan's house drunk. Berating her for being reckless, Dan tries to force Mel to stay the night. Mel reacts angrily and pushes him into a dresser, causing Dan to sustain a head wound. At the emergency room, Dan lies about how he got the injury, covering for Mel.

Dan interns at Austin-based record label Topo Records. His co-worker Amanda notices his injury; she points out how different the situation would look if it had happened to Mel and not him. Mel starts a job as a teaching assistant to Ms. Anders at an elementary school. One night, her friends ask how she and Dan keep things fresh, and Jessica suggests they should watch pornography. Dan later catches Mel watching a porn film.

The next day, they go for lunch with Dan's mother Joanne. Before Mel arrives, Joanne tells Dan that she and his dad will pay his rent if he chooses to move to New York City. A few nights later, Mel and Dan go to a pool party thrown by Mark. After Mel leaves, Dan kisses Amanda on an impulse. He apologizes, and they agree it is best to stay friends.

The next morning, Dan goes to Mel's house and she notices his odd behavior. He denies there's anything wrong. That night, Mel borrows Dan's phone at a party and sees a text from Amanda talking about their kiss. They break out into a physical fight, and, in an attempt to subdue Mel's lashing out, Dan holds her to the ground. The police show up and misunderstand the situation because Mel stays silent when Dan asks her to explain the situation to them. When she refuses to do so, the police arrest him. Dan is released the next morning, but refuses to speak to Mel.

Jason and Mark offer Dan a job at Topo Records' new office in Brooklyn. To celebrate, he goes to a bar with Amanda. She apologizes for sending him the text, and Dan informs her that he and Mel are on a break. Meanwhile, Mel attends a party with her friends, where she meets Will. After becoming intoxicated, Jessica and Will take her home. Jessica goes back to the party, but Will stays behind and attempts to rape Mel while she is semiconscious; she pushes him off and he leaves.

Mel tells Dan about Will and tearfully asks him to hold her. The two then go to Houston to help Mel's mother move out of her childhood home. While there, Dan visits his mom, who encourages him to go to New York. Later, Dan tells Mel about his job offer and she accuses him of only thinking of himself. He, in turn, calls her needy and Mel orders him to leave. Mel then worries that she has messed the relationship up for good. Her roommate Becca suggests that she should sleep on it and give Dan time to cool off.

Back at Dan's house, he and Amanda have sex. The next morning, Mel arrives to apologize and catches Amanda leaving. In the ensuing argument, Mel throws a glass across the room and Dan throws a punch at her, but diverts in the end thinking better of it, causing him to slam his hand into the wall. She pushes Dan into the broken shards, injuring his foot and hand. At the hospital, Dan tells Mel he's sorry and that he no longer wants to go to New York and wants to stay with her.  Mel tells Dan that she thinks he should take the job and move to New York.  Dan rejects that suggestion and says he wants to stay.  Mel tells Dan that she loves him but it doesn't feel right.  Dan tells Mel that he doesn't want to break up but she then asks Dan to look her in the eyes and tell her that he loves her and wants to spend the rest of his life with her. Dan is unable to and instead says he's sorry.  Mel says okay and with that, reality starts to set in that their 6 year relationship is finished.

####7th Heaven####
Chico works in the sewers of Paris. He dreams of becoming a street sweeper and therefore lights candles in the church. He also asks a blonde woman to be his partner. But his wishes are not granted, which makes him bitter.

One day Chico saves the young prostitute Diane, who is suffering from her unscrupulous sister Nana. The police want to arrest the prostitute, who is innocent in spite of her job, but Chico saves her by pretending to be her husband. Now the two have to maintain the facade and act as spouses. So Chico allows Diane to move into his attic with him. In fact, the two find each other. But when the war breaks out, Chico is called up. Diane works in an ammunition factory. News of Chico's death reaches her, but Chico is not dead. He returns home to Diane, wounded and blind.

####9 Full Moons####
Frankie is a hard-drinking woman fresh out of a bad marriage. She wanders East Los Angeles looking for castoff furniture and clothing, which she sometimes sells for spending money. Otherwise, she hangs out with local musicians as an opportunity to meet people.

Lev is a limousine driver who dreams of making it in the music business. He meets Frankie in a dive bar and they hook up, quickly escalating to the point where she moves in with him. Lev also makes a musical connection with Charlie King Nash, a well-known roots-rocker who has hit a creative wall and welcomes the chance to make a new start.

Meantime, Lev and Frankie try to work through the ups and downs of a serious relationship and decide whether each is ready for it.

####24 Hours####
At an evening party in New York City, the Towners mourn their failing marriage, then leave separately. The somewhat drunk Jim walks to a bar for some more liquor. Before he arrives, a man is shot to death outside the establishment; those inside hastily carry the body inside and surmise that someone named Tony is responsible. Meanwhile, Fanny is driven home by her lover, David Melbourn. On the way, she breaks up with him, telling him she realizes now that she still loves Jim. However, she plans to leave her husband, thinking she is not good enough for him.

Jim next heads to a nightclub to see his lover, star singer Rosie Duggan. He asks her if it is possible for a man to love two women, then remarks that the snow was red outside the bar. After he leaves, her ex-con husband Tony Bruzzi shows up. He wants her to take him back, but she has him thrown out, though she keeps his gun; she guesses from the red snow that Tony killed someone.

Later, she takes Jim home. He falls asleep on her chaise longue. Then Tony shows up, jealous and determined to kill Jim. She tells him that Jim is not there, but he does not believe her. When she refuses to open a locked door, they struggle and he accidentally kills her.

The next morning, Jim wakes up and finds Rosie's body. Meanwhile, Tony hides out at Mrs. Dacklehorst's place, but he is tracked down by Dave the Slapper and his gang; the man Tony shot was part of Dave's mob. Tony demands Mrs. Dacklehorst deliver or mail a letter to his gang, but she betrays him instead, and he is shot dead.

Jim is charged with Rosie's murder. When Fanny shows up at the police station, Jim tells her to divorce him so she will not get entangled in his troubles, but she refuses to do so. Fortunately, fingerprints on a liquor bottle at Rosie's place match Tony's, and Jim is released. The couple reconcile, and Jim promises to stop drinking.

####Aaron Loves Angela####
A modern adaptation of William Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet", the film deals with the struggles of living in Harlem and intercultural divides in the 1970s. Two teenagers living in the slums of New York City are deeply in love with each other. Angela is a Puerto Rican girl who lives in Spanish Harlem with her mother. She falls in love with Aaron, a young Black basketball player. Their intercultural relationship is not approved by either of their parents, and they soon find out that the same prejudice is shared by their friends and neighbors. They rebel by meeting in secret, yet soon find themselves in danger.

####Abandon####
Senior college student Katie Burke is struggling to deal with the stress of completing her thesis and succeeding in an upcoming rigorous interview process. To make matters even more complicated, Detective Wade Handler, a recovering alcoholic, reopens the two-year-old police investigation into the disappearance of her boyfriend, Embry Larkin. An orphaned young man of considerable means, Embry had purchased two tickets to Athens, Greece before his disappearance; the tickets had never been used and Embry's financial assets had not been touched since his disappearance. With the official reopening of the Larkin case, however, Katie begins to see Embry lurking around campus, seemingly stalking her.

Reporting this back to Detective Handler, who dismisses her as he believes Embry to be dead, Katie is not convinced but nevertheless returns to school. Falling asleep in the college library while studying, upon waking she finds a number carved into the wood of the desk. Upon investigation, she discovers it references a library book: "The Inferno". There she finds Embry staring back at her from the other side of the book stack.

Confiding these troubling events to her friends, most notably her roommate Samantha, Katie learns that during her relationship with Embry, he had acted extremely jealous and even violent toward another of Katie's admirers, Harrison, for whom Katie held only platonic feelings. Shortly thereafter, Harrison seemingly disappears from campus. Convinced that Embry is responsible, Katie confronts him at a local restaurant, only to be asked to meet him at his family's country house.

Once at the Larkin family's country house, however, a violent confrontation ensues between Katie and Embry. Fleeing from the house and finding comfort in Handler, Katie begins an affair with the detective which spurs her to complete her thesis. With Handler closing the investigation, citing that Embry Larkin was indeed alive, and resigning from his job as a detective, he and Katie plan on temporarily retreating to Handler's cabin in New Hampshire. Meanwhile, however, Handler learns from a forensic expert that a note which had supposedly only recently been written by Embry to Katie was, in fact, two years old.

Waiting for Handler on campus, Katie is once again attacked by Embry, who promises to find her wherever she goes before running off. Informing Handler of her encounter with Embry, Katie asks him if the two of them can just leave, but Handler insists on putting a stop to Embry's threats. Following Katie's direction to where Embry ran off, Handler and Katie venture into Embry's former dormitory, which is now abandoned due to the building's derelict structure. As they walk into one of the building's old tunnels, a former spot for Katie and Embry's trysts, Katie begins to interact with Embry, but Handler sees no one.

Through flashbacks, Katie and Embry have been in the same location two years prior, with Embry cruelly breaking up with her and calling off their planned trip to Greece. It is subsequently revealed that as a repercussion of her father's abandonment of her at a young age, Katie possesses severe psychotic tendencies surrounding abandonment. Distraught over Embry's disposal of her, Katie picks up a rock and strikes him from behind repeatedly, killing him.

Attempting to reason with Katie before telling her she cannot come with him to New Hampshire, Handler takes notice of something at the bottom of the water. Realizing that it is the skeleton of Embry Larkin, Handler is suddenly struck from behind and falls into the water, echoing Embry's murder two years prior. The epilogue reveals that the dormitory is to be demolished for the construction of a new structure on the site, thus cementing the permanent disappearance of Embry Larkin and Wade Handler.

Katie Burke has graduated, and finally gets the job she has always wanted. But co-worker Robert Hanson informs her that he has been promoted and that their relationship must end; a familiar look passes over Katie's face.

####The Absentee####
In a prologue, the mythical figure of Ambition seeks to attain the position currently held by Success. Success has reached the pinnacle of his desire, and sits looking over his kingdom. Having achieved his success, Success decides to take a break and goes off with Pleasure, leaving Might in control of the land. Might, under the influence of Evil, along with Might's wife Extravagance, as well as by his daughter Vanity, begins to abuse the land's occupants, including Toil, Age, Strength, Innocence, Happiness, and Ambition. Spurred on by Evil, who says that Justice is blind and cannot see what he is doing, Might whips the laborers. However, Justice is not blind, and she learns of the situation, informing Success, who returns and sets the situation right again.



In current time, Nathaniel Crosby (who is the embodiment of Success in the prologue) is the sole owner of a prosperous factory.  After receiving a letter from his general manager telling him that he needs to take a vacation, and can trust him to take care of things while he is away, he decides to take a holiday. Leaving his general manager, Sampson Rhodes (the personification of Might) in charge, he starts out on an extended pleasure trip.  Rhodes is influenced by his wife (the personification of Extravagance) and Genevieve, his daughter (the personification of Vanity), to take advantage of his position to increase their wealth and social position. Rhodes lowers the workers' wages, so he can take a bigger cut of the profits. The workers retaliate by going on strike, and the police are called in to protect the plant.  Tom Burke (the embodiment of Ambition) can no longer financially support his ill mother since he is striking.  Neither can he go through with plans to marry David Lee's (the embodiment of Contentment), the foreman's, older daughter Happiness. Lee, along with several other laborers, become more and more discontent as the strike continues, and they eventually turn the strike into a riot. In the first assault several of the workers, as well as one of the policemen, are killed.

As the violence continues to escalate, Rhodes realizes that it has gone beyond the abilities of the police to handle, and calls in the militia to put down the riot. However, Rhodes secretary, Ruth Farwell (the embodiment of Justice), tracks down Crosby and tells him of the situation. When he is reticent to return, telling her that Rhodes can handle the situation, she explodes at him, letting him know that over a dozen have been killed in the riots and that their blood will be on his head. She then runs from the room, dropping one of her gloves. Rhodes returns to the plant in order to defuse the situation, but when Ruth recognizes him as he approaches the factory, the rioters turn their ire on him, beginning to beat him.  Ruth, along with Burke, manage to get him away from the crowd and into a nearby boarding house.

Recovering from his daze, he asks Ruth what is happening, she simply points out the window, where they can see the mob approaching the militia, which is standing in a line, weapons at the ready.  They have been given the authority by Rhodes to fire on the crowd if necessary to protect the factory. Crosby rushes out of the room, followed by Ruth.  In the ruckus which follows, Ruth is shot when she steps in front of a bullet meant for Crosby, fired by Lee. Crosby ends the riot by telling them men to come back to work at their prior wages, which is what they wanted.  The militia is dismissed, and Crosby fires Rhodes.

With the plant returned to its former status, Crosby goes to visit Ruth in the hospital, where she has been convalescing. She assures him that she can return to work soon, telling him that she's been practicing her shorthand, showing him her pad and pencil.  He asks her to take a letter for him, thanking someone for opening his eyes, and asking her to marry him.  When Ruth asks him to whom she should address the letter, he takes out the glove she left behind when she came to tell him of the riots, and says simply, "To the owner of this glove".

####The Accidental Tourist####
Macon Leary (William Hurt) is a Baltimore writer of travel guides for reluctant business travelers, which detail how best to avoid unpleasantness and difficulty.

His marriage to his wife Sarah (Kathleen Turner) is disintegrating in the aftermath of the murder of their 12-year-old son, Ethan. Sarah eventually leaves Macon, moving out of their house and into an apartment, leaving him with the house and the family dog, Edward.

Macon meets Muriel Pritchet (Geena Davis), an eccentric animal hospital employee and dog trainer with a sickly son. Macon eventually hires Muriel to put his dog through much-needed obedience training after Edward causes Macon to fall down the stairs and break his leg. Muriel is quite forward in her interest in Macon, which is a counterforce to his stiff personality traits.  Although Muriel at first seems brash and unsophisticated, Macon eventually finds himself opening up to her and trusting her. Over a period of time, he moves into her apartment and becomes a father figure to her sickly son. Some conflict begins to occur between Muriel and Macon when he offers to help with private school costs. She wants more commitment to the relationship and doesn't want another disappointing experience. When Sarah's apartment lease is up, she moves back into their old home and suggests to Macon that they start over. Macon leaves Muriel, and he and Sarah set up house once more.

When Macon visits Paris for research, Muriel surprises him by showing up on the same flight and stays in the same Paris hotel, recommended by Macon in one of his travel guides.  She suggests that they enjoy themselves as if they are vacationing together. Macon insists he is there strictly for business, and although he shows concern for how Alexander is doing, keeps Muriel at arm's length.

During Macon's last night in Paris, Muriel asks to go with him, and despite an early flight she tells him he doesn't have to reply just now. Waking up in the middle of the night Macon decides to call Muriel but his telephone malfunctions. Macon gets up and while trying to fix the cord, hurts his back and becomes bedridden. Muriel knocks on his door waking him up but before he can decide what to do Muriel assumes he has gone already and leaves. Mustering the strength to go to the front desk, Macon phones his publisher to inform him of his back pain. Sarah comes to Paris with pain medication, sent by Macon's sister Rose, to care and make day-trips for him in order to complete his travel guide. Sarah proposes that after finishing the day trips if he is feeling better they can go sightseeing,  reschedule the flight for a later date and make the trip a second honeymoon to which Macon tepidly agrees. However, Sarah tells him that she has run into Muriel when she arrived and continues to question Macon about his attraction to her. "Was it the boy? She asks." Despite the reconciliation attempts to save the marriage, Macon begins to realize that the relationship is stunted without their son.

The next morning, Macon dresses while Sarah still sleeps, then wakes her to tell her that he is going back to Muriel. He says he needs to move on to someone that can get him out of mourning and his funk. Macon realizes that Sarah was strong enough to muddle through, but he needs Muriel. Walking to the taxi stand, Macon leaves his signature handheld bag in the streets. As he struggles to walk and catch a taxi, a young boy generously stops the cab and lets macon catch up. The boy is visually identical to his deceased son, and a metaphor for Macon to move on to his new life and family. The boy opens the door and wishes him well on his journey. He spots Muriel hailing a taxi and tells the driver to stop. Thinking the driver stopped for her, Muriel bends to gather her luggage and catches sight of Macon in the taxi. She smiles, and Macon returns the smile.

####Across the Atlantic####
Two brothers, Hugh (Monte Blue) and Dan Clayton (Robert Ober), love their father's secretary, Phyllis Jones (Edna Murphy). She chooses Hugh, and they marry before he goes to war as a pilot. Shot down in France, he loses his memory and becomes a drifter. Eight years later, Phyllis, resigned to her fate, promises to marry Dan after a visit to the place in France where Hugh was last seen.

Meanwhile, Hugh, back in America, is working for his father (Burr McIntosh) at the Clayton aircraft company. While he is test-flying an aircraft, his memory returns. He crashes and is taken to an asylum because of his insistence that he is John Clayton's son.

Hugh escapes the asylum, steals an experimental trans-Atlantic aircraft, and flies it to Paris to be reunited with his family.

####Across the Universe####
Set in the 1960s. Jude Feeney, a shipyard worker in Liverpool, heads to the US to find his G.I. father who conceived him during World War II, whom he has never met. He promises his girlfriend Molly he will stay in touch while he is away.

Meanwhile, in New Jersey, Lucy Carrigan worries about her boyfriend Daniel, who is headed for service in the Vietnam War. In Dayton, Ohio, cheerleader Prudence pines for a fellow female cheerleader, and then drops out of school in shame.

Jude meets his father Wes, a janitor at Princeton University, but does not particularly bond with him. While on campus, he meets and befriends slacker student Max, who brings him home for Thanksgiving He introduces Jude to his family, including Lucy, his younger sister.

Max drops out of college; he and Jude move into a bohemian enclave in Greenwich Village run by a singer, Sadie. Jude becomes a freelance artist and Max a cab driver. Daniel is killed in Vietnam and Lucy attends his funeral. In Detroit, a young African-American boy is killed in the 1967 riot. His adult brother Jo-Jo, a guitarist, moves to New York for a change of scenery and auditions for Sadie's band. They are soon joined by Prudence who had hitchhiked there.

Lucy visits Max in New York before starting college, and she and Jude fall in love. Max,  initially displeased upon learning they slept together, finally gives them his blessing. Later, Max is drafted into the army and sent to Vietnam, as he is no longer a college student protected from the draft. Prudence is attracted to Sadie and becomes depressed when Sadie and Jo-Jo begin a relationship.

Lucy becomes increasingly involved in the anti-war movement. Jude remains comparatively apolitical but devoted to her. Sadie is offered a chance to go on a solo tour as a headliner, leading to a bitter breakup between her and Jo-Jo. Jude dislikes the increasing amount of time Lucy spends with the Students for a Democratic Republic, led by activist Paco, as he suspects that Paco is attempting to seduce her.

Jude storms into the SDR office leading to an argument with Lucy and a fight with Paco after which Jude is thrown out and she breaks up with him. Some time later, Jude follows her to an anti-war demonstration at Columbia University. When the police arrest Lucy, Paco, and the other activists, Jude's attempts to reach her lead to his arrest as well.

With Jude facing deportation, Lucy contacts his father. Wes visits him in jail but has no legal proof that he is his son and thus an American citizen. As a result, Jude is sent back to England. Returning to his job at the Liverpool shipyards, he runs into his former girlfriend Molly and sees that she is heavily pregnant by her current partner. She met him around the time Jude stopped writing her (when he started seeing Lucy).

Jo-Jo continues playing solo guitar in bars, while the highly successful Sadie drowns her sorrow and loneliness in alcohol on tour. Max is wounded in Vietnam and sent home. Lucy visits him in the hospital but he is traumatized and dependent on morphine. Meanwhile, she continues her activities with the SDR and is involved with Paco, but is uncomfortable with him leading the movement deeper into violence.

Lucy leaves Paco and the organization when she finds him making bombs, and she is surrounded by constant reminders of Jude. One of Paco's homemade bombs explodes, killing him and his confederates. Upon reading this news, Jude fears Lucy is also dead. He learns from Max over the phone that she had left the group beforehand and is alive, and he arranges to return to NYC legally.

Jo-Jo and Sadie, who have reconciled, put on a rooftop concert. Max brings Jude to the rooftop. When the police arrive to break up the concert, Jude manages to remain on the roof and begins to sing. The police allow the band to rejoin him. He notices Lucy on the opposite rooftop, standing and looking at him. Lucy and Jude gaze smilingly at each other as the performance concludes.

####Across to Singapore####
In 1857, Joel Shore (Ramon Novarro), the carefree youngest son of a seafaring family, has a flirtatious friendship with Priscilla Crowninshield (Joan Crawford), and he eventually falls in love with her.  However, unbeknownst to him, Priscilla has been betrothed to Joel's much older brother, Mark (Ernest Torrence). The wedding is announced in church as a surprise, and Joel and Priscilla are both shocked, with Priscilla refusing to kiss Mark after the betrothal ceremony.

Mark, a ship's captain, sails to Singapore, accompanied by Joel and their other brothers. Priscilla tells Joel she had no idea about the marriage and tries to kiss him, but Joel is hurt and rebuffs Priscilla's advances before he leaves.  At the same time, Mark, mad about Priscilla spurning him, drinks heavily during the voyage and begins to see hallucinations of Priscilla. He senses that Priscilla loves someone else and threatens to harm whoever it is, but Joel tells him she does not love anyone but Mark. Mark continues to drink once they arrive in Singapore, but a conspiratorial crew led by Finch (Jim Mason) sails from Singapore without him, with Mark killed in a bar fight. Joel is put in handcuffs for allegedly not coming to his brother's aid during the fight.

Reaching home, Joel is freed; he finds Priscilla, and, taking her with him, he returns to Singapore for Mark, as he does not believe Mark is dead. They arrive in Singapore six months after having left, and find Mark a drunken mess. Mark sees that Priscilla does not love him, and he steps aside for his brother.

####Act of Love####
Robert Teller (Kirk Douglas) visits a seaport in the south of France in the early 1950s. He reflects back to his time in the army shortly after Paris has been liberated.

Years earlier, to get away from the barracks and the other soldiers, Robert rents a room in a hotel-restaurant. Lise Guidayec (Dany Robin), an orphan without money or identity papers, seeks a way to escape from the authorities. She asks Robert to pass her off as his wife. Even though he does not inspire trust, she starts to fall in love with him. Lise tells of the time she was the most happy and secure—living in a little seaside village.

When a black market dragnet lands Lise in jail, she is humiliated because now she (like Jean Valjean) is branded a "criminal for life". By this time, Robert loves her deeply and is willing to marry her. In order to do so, Robert must obtain the approval of his commanding officer, who refuses because the captain thinks he knows what is best for his men. Robert is transferred away from Paris immediately. He deserts, but is arrested, causing him to miss his wedding to Lise.

His thoughts returning to the present, Robert runs into his old captain (who had been trying to place Robert's face). He hears the captain tell his wife what a troublemaker Robert was back then and how he "rescued" Robert from the clutches of a French girl. Robert then reveals that Lise committed suicide by drowning in the river shortly after he was transferred.

####Adam Had Four Sons####
Adam Stoddard is a wealthy, easy-going family patriarch who falls on hard times after the death of his wife Molly and the stock market crash of 1907 that wipes out his wealth. Recently arrived governess Emilie works to keep the family together. But with the loss of Adam's fortune, the boys are sent off to boarding school, their schooling paid for by wealthy, aged Cousin Phillipa. Emilie must return to France until Adam can afford to repurchase the family estate and recall her to look after it. Reversing his fortunes takes Adam several years. By then, the three older boys are fighting in World War I.

Just as the family is getting back to its former way of life, one son, David, returns with his new wife, Hester, who turns out be a conniving, evil woman wanting to rule the roost. Cousin Phillipa figures out the false Hester, dying before she can tell Adam. Hester schemes to rid the home of Emilie, and seduces another son, Jack, while her husband is away at war. Emilie discovers the affair, but keeps quiet to preserve Adam's happiness and the brother's reputation, pretending to Adam that "she" was the one involved with Jack. Later, when David returns, Hester inadvertently exclaims "Oh, Jack" while David is caressing her. Realizing her infidelity, David leaves to commit suicide by flying a plane and crashing on a stormy night. Yet, he is hospitalized and survives. Ultimately, all is discovered, and Hester receives her comeuppance and is evicted from the home. Emilie and Adam become engaged, and all ends happily.

####Adrift####
Five months before the hurricane, Tami Oldham arrives in Tahiti on board the schooner "Sofia" and meets Richard Sharp, a British sailor. Richard invites Tami for dinner aboard his boat "Mayaluga". The two of them spend more time together and begin to plan a trip to sail to Japan.

While downtown one day, Tami and Richard bump into Peter and Christine Crompton, owners of "Hazaña", a luxury Trintella 44 yacht. The Cromptons offer Richard $10,000 and a return first-class ticket back to Tahiti to sail "Hazaña" to San Diego, California. Richard accepts the offer, on the condition that Tami come along and that they also give her a return ticket.  Later, he proposes to Tami with a handmade ring, and she accepts.

The couple depart aboard "Hazaña", and after many uneventful days at sea, Tami and Richard receive news of an approaching cyclone, Hurricane Raymond, but decide to continue to San Diego anyway. As the storm hits, Tami tries to radio for help, with no response. The storm alters course and the yacht enters the eye of the storm. Richard and Tami have no choice but to lower the sails to prevent the boat from capsizing. Tami almost falls off the yacht as she is hit by powerful waves. Richard professes his love for her and demands that she go below where she will be safer. "Hazaña" is repeatedly flipped as she is hit by a towering wave. Tami is thrown about, suffering a head wound.  Richard is thrown overboard after being knocked unconscious by the mast and his safety harness breaks. He slowly sinks into the ocean, while "Hazaña" is flipped, rights himself and floats to the surface.

Tami regains consciousness and struggles to understand what has happened. She urgently searches the crippled yacht in hopes of finding Richard and realizes that he was swept overboard. Tami screams in anguish and it is revealed that she is all alone, with no ships or land in sight. Tami finds that the engine will not start, and no one hears her radioed distress calls.  She believes she has spotted the lost dinghy with Richard clinging to it, and she tries to steer the yacht towards him. She falls off and nearly drowns as she swims to rescue Richard. After dragging him aboard, Tami realizes that he has broken ribs and a shattered right shin. She fashions a makeshift sail using a broken pole and a storm jib, allowing her to sail toward Hawaii.

One night, she sees a large cargo ship heading straight for "Hazaña" and fires multiple flares, but the ship sails on past them. Tami wonders if she has been hallucinating, and Richard begins to suffer from a high fever. As the sun rises the next morning, Richard reminds Tami that a red morning sky warns of an approaching storm. Expecting a storm to hit, Tami prepares by creating a makeshift shelter, though the storm turns out to be just a minor squall.

The next day, Richard has disappeared. Tami realizes that the injured Richard on board "Hazaña" was nothing but a hallucination and surrenders to the reality that Richard was lost at sea. On the 41st day, Tami finally spots land and a Japanese research vessel in the distance and fires off two flares, successfully attracting its attention. The vessel lowers food and water supplies to Tami and tows "Hazaña" to shore. Tami returns to Tahiti after recovering and visits Richard's boat, bursting into tears after seeing the photos of Richard and herself. She goes to the beach with a frangipani flower, places her engagement ring around the flower, and lets it go in the water.

It is revealed in the credits that Richard Sharp was swept overboard and never found; Tami Oldham Ashcraft survived alone aboard "Hazaña" for a total of 41 days before she was rescued. She continues to be an avid sailor. During the credits, a series of news articles, pictures and a video of the actual Tami and Richard are shown.

####Adventure####
When his ship is torpedoed by a Japanese submarine, Harry Patterson (Clark Gable), a World War II merchant marine boatswain, is cast adrift on a launch with a few of his shipmates. While Harry remains calm in the face of disaster, his friend Mudgin (Thomas Mitchell) prays desperately, promising to avoid women, liquor, and fighting and to donate money to the church if they are saved. Harry finds Mudgin's pleas ridiculous, but no sooner does Mudgin complete his pact with God than a rescue plane appears on the horizon and the men are saved.

They are then deposited in San Francisco where they engage in "R&R" care, grooming, dinners, and fun to celebrate their rescue. Mudgin quickly breaks all his promises to God soon after and becomes depressed, certain that he has "lost his immortal soul."

Mudgin's shipmates laugh off his concerns, but Harry realizes that Mudgin is truly wracked with guilt and they take a walk, arriving at the city library, because Mudgin and Harry think there may be some helpful information on the subject of the human soul there.

Here, Harry and Mudgin meet the attractive, strait-laced librarian Emily Sears (Greer Garson). Although intrigued by Emily, Harry repeatedly angers her with his wiseguy remarks and inappropriate behavior. However, his attention turns swiftly to her outgoing roommate, Helen Melohn (Joan Blondell), who has stopped in to walk her home. Harry and Helen decide to go on a date and convince a reluctant Emily to join them. At the restaurant, Emily stuns Harry when she abandons her reserved demeanor and joins a bar fight. Astounded, Harry decides to pursue Emily's affections and arranges to meet the two women the following day to visit Emily's farm outside the city.

Charmed by Emily and her family farmhouse which includes the big bed in which she was born, Harry and Emily soon fall completely in love and get married in Reno in a wild expression of love of life. However, upon their return to her farm, he tells Emily that he will be shipping out in a few days, which comes as a shock to Emily, who promptly asks for a divorce, insisting that she is just being a free spirit and giving Harry his freedom, as the best expression of love. Harry sails away, and Emily and pals go back to Reno for the quick divorce. But in Reno, with "the girls", Emily faints - the doctor called declares that she is pregnant with Harry's child.

While docked in a South American port city, Mudgin falls off the ship and claims, before dying in Harry's arms, that his soul has been returned to him.  A wise elderly gentleman, a friend (whose son died in the ship disaster at the film's start), gives Harry a good talking to when Harry complains about his relationship with Emily.

Nine months after his departure, now ready to commit to love and marriage, Harry comes back to San Francisco and finds out from Helen that Emily has long since given up on him and went to her farm to give birth to his child - insisting the baby born in the same bed she was.

Harry follows and arrives just as Emily goes into labor, so the meeting and reunion are brief - there is just time to give Emily reason to hope in improvements in Harry's character; he shares sad news of Mudgin's death, but it was peaceful and happy because Mudgin says his soul returned and he'd now go to heaven.

Waiting, Harry paces outdoors with Emily upstairs in labor, until Helen calls him in saying that Emily is fine and that he has a little boy, but there is trouble.

Harry races upstairs to the room across the bedroom set up to see to the baby. The child is stillborn, in spite of the efforts of Doctor, nurses and aide and Harry positions himself at the Doctor's side and won't be moved.   The Doctor finally gives up trying to get the baby to breathe, sadly turning away, but then Harry moves in and crying, calls desperately to the baby to breathe, breathe - for him, for his mother - whatever - but breathe. And we have the miracle as the little chest rises and the child's triumphant howl is astoundingly heard.

In the hall, happy tearful Helen hugs Harry as he races back across to Emily's side, thrilled to hear their baby, but she says she is just as moved to have heard Harry and his passion to save the child - finally honest caring sentiment. They decide to call the baby Mudgin, after their lost friend, and the film closes as Harry and Emily share a tender kiss, with baby's joyful cries in the background.

####Adventures of Captain Fabian####
George Brissac owns a large country mansion in old New Orleans in 1860. He is engaged but is having an affair with a French Creole girl Lea, a maid in his household who has a gypsy aunt, Jezebel. George stands to inherit the estate from his childless uncle as long he keeps out of trouble. One day when he is out the maid throws a huge party in his house and everyone gets drunk. One male admirer is rebuffed. When George returns he kisses her and angers her admirer. A fight ensues and George is briefly knocked out. The admirer tries to kiss the girl and she hits him repeatedly on the head with George's cane and kills him. George decides to fabricate a story to keep out of any blame, and lies when the girl goes on trial for murder.

Meanwhile Captain Fabian returns to port. Although having no link to the events he goes to the trial having been told enough of the story to see a plot. He stops the trial and gets the judge to release the girl into his care. He buys a local bar. His overall aim seems to be to clear the name of his father who was a merchant who went bankrupt in the town.

Captain Fabian appears to also like Lea but is restrained in his actions.

However, Brissac also kills his own uncle when the uncle finds him kissing the maid. Despite his poor treatment of her she demands he marry her to keep her silence. When George's fiancee arrives with her family she is informed of the new arrangement. She says she will wait until he comes to his senses.

After marriage to Lea George cools in his desire and feels tricked into the marriage. New Orleans society is also shunning him. As they are the only witnesses to the uncle's murder they plan just to be wholly silent on the issue.

Ever the temptress Lea goes to Fabian's ship. He sees her for what she is but yields and kisses her in a strong embrace and says he loves her. When she asks him to take her away he reminds her she is now married...

George, sensing something wrong with Lea, reports his uncle's disappearance to the police, even though this will result in the finding of the uncle's grave on the estate at some point. However George has buried an inscribed pocket watch bearing Fabian's name with the body. When this is fond the police jump to the conclusion which George wants. He knows Lea cannot tell the truth without implicating herself. Lea and George each now want to kill the other.

The police arrest Fabian in his bar. But Fabian is very popular in the local community. Fabian knows that Brissac is the likely murderer and realizes why he married Lea. Lea holds the key to which one is hanged.

George hires a local crook to lynch Fabian and make it look like community justice. He gives the man the key to his warehouse of rum. Aunt Jezebel an Fabian's crew plan to save him. They release him and the two rival groups escape through the catacombs down to the docks where a huge brawl begins. The mob torch Fabian's ship as it tries to raise sail.

Fabian and Brissac end up fighting under the water. Fabian wins but his ship is destroyed. His cargo of gunpowder explodes and the main mast fall crushing Lea on the dockside. She says Fabian's name as she dies in his arms.

####An Affair to Remember####
Nickie Ferrante, a well-known playboy, meets Terry McKay aboard the transatlantic ocean liner SS|Constitution en route from Europe to New York. Each is romantically involved with someone else. After a series of meetings aboard the ship, they establish a friendship. When Terry joins Nickie on a brief visit to his grandmother Janou while the ship is anchored near her home at Villefranche-sur-Mer on the Mediterranean coast, she sees Nickie with new eyes and their feelings become deeper. During their visit, Janou tells Terry that Nickie is a talented painter but destroys most of his paintings because they don't meet his standards. As the ship returns to New York City, they agree to reunite at the top of the Empire State Building in six months' time if they have succeeded in ending their relationships and starting new careers.

On the day of their rendezvous, Terry, hurrying to reach the Empire State Building, is struck down by a car while crossing a street. Gravely injured, she is rushed to the hospital. Meanwhile, Nickie, waiting for her at the observation deck at the top of the building, is unaware of the accident and, after many hours, leaves at midnight, believing that she has rejected him.

After the accident, Terry, now unable to walk, refuses to contact Nickie because of her disability. Instead, she finds work as a music teacher. Nickie has pursued his painting and has his work displayed by Courbet, an art gallery owner. Six months after the accident, Terry sees Nickie with his former fiancée at the ballet. Nickie does not notice her condition because she is seated, and they both say hello.

Nickie learns Terry's address and on Christmas Eve pays her a surprise visit. Although he tries to coax her to explain her actions, Terry dodges the subject, never leaving the couch on which she lies. He gives Terry a shawl that Janou, who has died, left for her. As he is leaving, Nickie mentions a painting on which he had been working when they first met, and that it was just given away to a woman who liked it but had no money. He is about to say that the woman was in a wheelchair when he pauses, suddenly suspecting why Terry has been lying still on the couch. He walks into her bedroom and sees the painting hanging on the wall, realizing that she was the woman in the wheelchair. The film ends with the two in a tight embrace as Terry says, "If you can paint, I can walk. Anything can happen, don't you think?"

####After Ever Happy####
A couple of hours after Christian Vance reveals to Hardin he is Hardin's biological father, Hardin returns to his mother's wedding reception with Tessa, where he confronts her about the deception.  Vance tries to explain himself, but Hardin storms off with a bottle of whiskey. That evening, Tessa finds a drunk Hardin breaking into Trish's house and setting the place on fire. Hardin realizes his mistake and tries to put the fire out, to no avail, but Vance arrives and sneaks Hardin out the back to Vance's car as the fire department arrives. Hardin wakes up the next morning and Tessa tells him Vance told the police he had set the fire himself. They drive to a hill where they have sex.

Tessa and Hardin return to their hotel where she confides in Kimberley, Vance's fiancee, about her problems dealing with Hardin's anger issues before discovering Hardin has left the hotel. Tessa tracks him down to a party where she finds him drunk and high. She offers him a chance to leave with her, but he declines and she returns to the US. Upon returning to her apartment, Tessa finds her father, dead from an apparent overdose. Landon calls Hardin dozens of times to let him know before he finally picks up. He returns to Tessa and tries to comfort her, but she hides from him. Hardin argues with her mom, Carol, about whether he's good for Tessa and how he always abandons her.

Still, Hardin, along with Landon, attends Richard's funeral to support Tessa. Hardin and Tessa go to a dinner hosted by Hardin's dad, Ken, and Landon's mom, Karen, along with Landon and his friend, Nora, to say farewell to Landon as he moves to New York for school, where Nora also lives. After dinner, Tessa brings Hardin outside to talk. She tells him they need time apart to heal from their recent family traumas and she's decided to leave Vance Publishing to move to New York with Landon. Hardin is hurt by the bombshell and nearly hits Landon out of rage for not telling him, but Landon reminds him he is also Tessa's friend as much as Hardin is his brother. Tessa gives Hardin an ultimatum that if he loves her, he'll not follow her to New York and let them have their time apart, to which he reluctantly agrees.

Tessa moves in with Landon and starts working with Nora at a fancy restaurant and Hardin starts going to AA and graduates from university. Months later, Hardin comes to New York for work and Landon offers to host him. Tessa takes double shifts to avoid Hardin, but Landon and Hardin come to her restaurant and request her as their server. Hardin stays until she's off work and they talk about how they've been; Hardin's sobriety and Tessa waiting to get accepted into NYU. Over the next couple of days, they spend time together, slowly reconnecting, during which Landon finally starts a romantic relationship with Nora, much to Hardin and Tessa's happiness.  One night when Landon is at Nora's, Tessa and Hardin give in and have sex again. The next morning after Hardin leaves, Tessa finds a book in his bag, titled "After", documenting their entire relationship. When Hardin returns, Tessa confronts him about the book, not wanting her life to be published for everyone to read about, but Hardin tells her there's already a bidding war for the book. He had read his journal during therapy and a publisher ended up reading it and everything escalated since. Tessa declares that their relationship is officially over.

Sometime later, Hardin's book has been named a New York Times Best Seller. With not many friends at school and Landon having basically moved in with Nora, Tessa reaches out to Robert, Nora's friend, for company. That night, Tessa sneaks into Hardin's book signing without him knowing so she can listen in. She misinterprets a look between Hardin and a woman and as Tessa leaves, Hardin glimpses her.

####After Tonight####
With the outbreak of World War I, a young woman is unable to purchase a train ticket from Luxembourg to Austria. However, Rudolph "Rudy" Ritter is attracted to her and gets her aboard a train to Bern, Switzerland. Later, when the train is stopped short of their destination, she slips away while he goes in search of a car. He does not even know her name.

Rudy turns out to be a captain in the Austrian Ministry of War assigned to deal with Russian spies, particularly the very successful K-14. He gets a lead when a secret message is intercepted; it contains information about a newly improved flamethrower. Rudy is assigned to Major Lieber, the man in charge of the unit developing the weapon.

Rudy is delighted when Lieber introduces him to nurse Karen Schöntag, his former traveling companion. Rudy sees Karen every night, and the pair fall in love. However, Karen is actually K-14. She narrowly escapes being caught by Rudy and his men, then is brought in for questioning when she goes to a certain staircase that Rudy knows is being used by the Russians to transfer messages. Rudy refuses to believe she is a spy and does not even search her. Major Lieber, however, notices something odd about one of the books she had with her; one page has been freshly torn out (the one with an invisible message).

Faced with the mounting evidence, Rudy sets a trap. He has Russian-speaking Private Muller sent to K-14's hospital masquerading as a prisoner of war. Muller gives K-14 the Russian recognition signal (two circles) and passes her a message, ordering her to meet an agent at a deserted house at nine o'clock that night. K-14 is suspicious, but feels she must go. Her contact insists on taking her there. After she incriminates herself to "Russian" agent Lehan, Rudy is forced to arrest her. K-14's associate shoots Rudy and knocks out Lehan. He has to drag K-14 away from the wounded Rudy, who also urges her to flee.

After the war ends, the two meet by chance at a Swiss train station. This time, Rudy does not let her get away.

####After We Collided####
One month after his breakup with Tessa Young, Hardin Scott meets an unknown homeless man, whom he rebuffs after the man tries to ask him a question. On her first day as an intern at Vance Publishing, Tessa shares an awkward encounter with coworker Trevor Matthews. Impressed with her work, Vance's owner Christian Vance takes Tessa, Trevor, and his secretary and girlfriend Kimberly to a Seattle-area work event. At a nightclub, Tessa and Trevor network with and impress a businessman considering an investment in Vance. Tessa drunk-dials Hardin, compelling him to track her down. He arrives at her hotel room to find a half-dressed Trevor (whose clothes were drying after Tessa accidentally spilt wine on them). Hardin kicks Trevor out of the room, and Tessa fights with Hardin before the two have sex.

The next morning, Hardin and Tessa fight again before Tessa and Trevor leave with Vance, who informs his interns that he has secured financing from the businessman. Tessa and Hardin each come to regret their decision to end their relationship. When Tessa returns to the apartment she shared with Hardin to retrieve some belongings, Hardin steps into the apartment with his mother Trish, who assumes the two are still dating. Tessa plays along and finds that she enjoys spending time with Hardin and Trish, who reveals to Tessa the source of Hardin's personality issues: he is traumatized after watching Trish get violently raped by men to whom his father Ken owed money. On the following day, her birthday, Tessa visits her mother Carol's house and encounters her ex-boyfriend Noah. The two accidentally reveal that Tessa's long-lost father had visited the home in an attempt to see her. Feeling betrayed, Tessa returns to Hardin's apartment and resumes a relationship with him.

On Christmas Day, Hardin, Tessa, and Trish attend a holiday party at Hardin's dad, Ken. Furious at Ken's apparent willingness to forgive himself for his role in the attack on Trish, Hardin gets drunk and attacks Ken. Tessa describes the incident to Trevor, who warns her that her relationship with Hardin will not end well. Vance contacts Tessa to inform her that his company is expanding and moving to Seattle, and offers her a job there. On New Year's Eve, Tessa and Hardin attend a party hosted at a university frat house, where they reconnect with a number of their former college friends. Each misinterprets a conversation held by the other: Tessa assumes Hardin is cheating on her when she sees him asking for the forgiveness of another girl with whom he had previously been involved, and Hardin accidentally learns of Vance's offer and concludes that Tessa will leave him for Trevor. Tessa and Hardin fight, and Tessa storms off. Hardin only sees apologetic texts sent by Tessa the next day after charging his phone. He calls Tessa, and she reaches for her phone while driving and is involved in a car accident that leaves her injured.

Devastated by his indirect responsibility for the accident, Hardin decides ending the relationship, but Trish talks him out of it. He races to Vance's farewell party, where Vance proposes to Kimberly. Tessa fights with Hardin once more before deciding to continue dating him. One night sometime afterwards, the homeless man who spoke to Hardin earlier confronts the two and reveals his identity: he is Tessa's father.

####Against All Odds####
Professional football player Terry Brogan (Jeff Bridges) is released by his team, the Outlaws. Aging, injured and in need of money, he is contacted by an old acquaintance, the shady gambler and nightclub owner Jake Wise (James Woods), who wants Terry to find Jake's girlfriend Jessie Wyler (Rachel Ward), daughter of the Outlaws' owner. Jake claims that Jessie assaulted him, stole money and fled. Terry is reluctant to take on the job, but needs the money and knows Wise is capable of blackmailing him.

Terry gets in touch with Jessie's mother (Jane Greer), ostensibly to find out where Jessie can be found, but mainly to convince Mrs. Wyler and her business partner Ben Caxton (Richard Widmark) to reinstate him on the team. Mrs. Wyler makes clear that she has no interest in his football career. She's willing to pay him more than Jake would if he will find Jessie for her. Beyond that, she has no use for him. Hank Sully (Alex Karras), the team's trainer, strongly advises Terry to stay away from Jake and offers to help Terry get a coaching job. Terry is convinced his days as a player are not over and instead decides to work for Jake to tide him over until the next season, when he can try to continue his playing career.

Terry finds Jessie living in Cozumel, Mexico. He makes multiple attempts to approach Jessie, but she rebuffs him, aware that he must have been sent by either Jake or her mother. Terry tires of pursuing a spoiled brat and packs to leave, but Jessie appreciates that he hasn't revealed her whereabouts and invites him to see where she is staying. They become lovers. Terry confides the leverage Jake has over him is the knowledge that Terry once shaved points in an important football game after he had fallen into debt.

Terry and Jessie remain happily together for a few weeks, with Terry continuing to tell Jake he's been unsuccessful in locating her. Sully is sent by Jake to investigate. He catches the lovers alone at the ruins of Chichen Itza. Wielding a gun, Sully demands that Terry turn over the girl and warns him she's "no good." He, too, has been involved in corruption with Jake's sports syndicate. A struggle between the men ensues and Jessie fatally shoots Sully. She wants to flee, as the two will be unable to offer an explanation that will allow them to avoid jail. But when Terry refuses, insisting that the two cannot just run away from the matter, Jessie abandons him.

After disposing of Sully's body, Terry returns to Los Angeles and finds to his astonishment that Jessie has returned to Jake. He is bitter toward her, but Jake maintains a hold over him with the point-shaving incident, as well as Sully's sudden disappearance. Jake invites Terry to his nightclub where he is sent to break into the office of Kirsch (Saul Rubinek), the team's corrupt lawyer, who is also involved in Jake's gambling operation. Terry's mission is to retrieve Kirsch's files, which implicate those involved.

After leaving the nightclub with the keys he needs for the break-in,  Terry goes to Jake's house to see Jessie who didn't come to the show that night. After a desperate confrontation, she admits both her love for him and the hold Jake has over her knowing that she was directly involved in Sully's death. The next morning on the beach, Jake has a heartfelt talk with her, but Jessie is distant and asks him to let her go.

Terry breaks into the office only to find Kirsch dead. A security guard has been hired to kill Kirsch and make it look like Terry committed the murder. Terry fights off the security guard, then hides Kirsch's body. He finds a local bar frequented by Kirsch's secretary, Edie (Swoosie Kurtz), where he tells her what has happened and that she, too, is in danger. Edie tells him about a secret box that contains the information to bring down the entire syndicate and local politicians. They return to the office to retrieve the box, where a fight occurs with another two guards, but again Terry escapes, this time with Edie and the files.

When Jake tells Jessie that he's had Kirsch killed and framed Terry for the murder, she takes the desperate step of going to her mother's house and informing Caxton, telling him that Jake has been handling bets on his old football team using information he's been given by Sully and Kirsch. What she doesn't know is that Caxton is actually Jake's boss at the syndicate.

Caxton takes charge. He arranges to meet Terry at the site of a new construction project that he and Mrs. Wyler are backing. Terry is able to disarm Caxton's henchman Tommy (Dorian Harewood). He says his price for turning over the files is that Caxton must take down Jake. Caxton indicates he is receptive to that idea, whereupon Jake pulls his own gun and threatens to kill Jessie, forcing Terry to drop his weapon. While the men have their attention focused on each other, Jessie retrieves the dropped gun and shoots Jake dead.

Having killed both Jake and Sully, she must agree to terms set by Caxton to avoid going to jail. Caxton's terms include Jessie returning to her estranged mother's side and ending her relationship with Terry.

Months later, Terry stays in the background while attending a publicity function for Caxton's and Mrs. Wyler's construction project. He just wants a last look at Jessie before leaving Los Angeles to play for a team in Miami. Caxton reminds him that he is no longer a part of Jessie's life. Terry acknowledges that this is true for the moment, but predicts that some day Jessie will break free of the hold that Caxton and Mrs. Wyler have on her. In the meantime, all Terry and Jessie can do is stare at one another from a distance.

####The Age of Adaline####
Adaline Bowman purchases fake IDs and then opens a box of film reels that highlight historical events. A voiceover tells the story of Adaline's life. She was the first baby born in San Francisco on New Year's Day of 1908. She married and gave birth to a daughter, only to become a widow when her husband died in an accident during the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge in 1937. Ten months later, Adaline crashed her car into a ravine and died in the freezing lake in Sonoma County, but a lightning strike revived her. From that moment, Adaline stayed physically 29 years old.

Two suspicious FBI agents attempt to abduct her for study, but she escapes and realizes she will have to spend the rest of her life on the run. Ever since, she has periodically changed her identification while her daughter Flemming ages normally.

On New Year's Eve 2014, as "Jennifer", she meets Ellis Jones at a party. Knowing she can never fall in love, she initially refuses his request to see her again but accepts the next day when he shows up at her work.

In a flashback, Adaline pulls up in a cab to where a man is waiting, holding an engagement ring. She tells the cab driver to keep going.

Ellis asks Adaline to his parents' fortieth anniversary party. His father, William, recognizes her instantly and calls her Adaline. She tells him Adaline was her deceased mother. A flashback reveals William was the man with the engagement ring.

William is shaken when he notices a scar on Adaline's hand, revealed in a flashback to be a cut Adaline sustained while she and William were hiking together decades ago and which he had stitched himself. He confronts her. She, upset, says she used to be "normal" and doesn't know what changed her. He, for Ellis's sake, begs her not to run but she says she doesn't know how to stay. She writes Ellis a note and leaves. Finding the letter, Ellis confronts his father who refuses to explain.

Driving home, Adaline recalls all the times she has run. She stops the car and calls her daughter to tell her she is going to stop running. A flatbed truck plows into her car, pushing it into a ravine. Adaline is ejected from the car and dies from hypothermia. An ambulance crew revives her with a defibrillator and she wakes up in the hospital with Ellis at her bedside. They profess their love for one another, and Adaline tells him of her 107 years of life, always running and afraid of being discovered.

A year later, Ellis and Adaline are leaving for a New Year's Eve party when, in the hallway mirror, she notices her first grey hair. When Ellis asks if she is okay, she responds: "Yes, perfect."

####The Age of Consent####
Mike Harvey (Cromwell) and Betty Cameron (Wilson) are college sweethearts at a New York college. They are so anxious to consummate their relationship that Mike suggests that the two of them quit college, get married and move to California where a friend of his has offered him a job. Both Mike's mentor, Professor Matthews, and Betty talk him out of it. In a funk, Mike goes to the local diner.

Dora (Judge) is a waitress who has had a crush on Mike and suggests that he walk her home after her late shift. Arriving at her house, she invites him in. Once in the house she lets him know that her father is working the night shift, offers Mike some of the liquor her father keeps hidden and turn on the music. The drunken couple begin kissing and end up having sex. They wake up the next morning as Dora is asking Mike if he's sorry for what happened. At that moment Dora's father (Barlow) comes in. He sees the rumpled condition of the couple, hears Dora's words and immediately has Mike arrested for corrupting the morals of a minor.

Matthews bails Mike out and when they meet with Dora and her father in the District Attorney's office, Mr Swales presents Mike with two options: marry Dora or have charges brought against him.
Despite Professor Matthews attempts to intervene, Dora's father insists that Mike marry his daughter and Mike finally acquiesces. The plan is made for them to get married that night and leave immediately for California. Mike goes to see Betty who has changed her mind and wants to leave school right away to get married. Mike tells her that he has to marry someone and why, she becomes distraught and suggests they run away and get married right away. He tells her that he has to do the right thing by Dora and leaves. Betty is visibly upset and later Duke Galloway, a classmate of Mike and Betty's offers to take her for a ride to help cheer her up.

Mike arrives at Dora's house. Her father lets him know that the preacher is on the way. Dora comes downstairs in a white suit for the wedding and so that she can leave with Mike right away. Professor Matthews is standing up for Mike. Before the preacher can arrive, Professor Matthews is summoned to the hospital and he takes Mike with him with Dora and her father following behind.

When they arrive at the hospital they find out that Duke has had a bad car accident. Betty is badly injured but Duke dies from his injuries at the hospital. Dora sees Mike and Betty and tells her father that she refuses to marry Mike because she can see how much he and Betty love each other.

The last scene shows a now married Mike and Betty on the train to California.

####The Age of Innocence####
In 1870s New York City, gentleman lawyer Newland Archer is planning to marry the respectable young May Welland. May's cousin, the American heiress Countess Ellen Olenska, has returned to New York after a disastrous marriage to a dissolute Polish Count. At first she is ostracized by society and vicious rumors are spread, but, as May's family boldly stands by the countess, she is gradually accepted by the very finest of New York's old families.

The countess is snubbed at one social party arranged by her family, but with the help of Archer, she is able to make a comeback at an event being hosted by the wealthy Van der Luydens. There she makes the acquaintance of one of New York's established financiers, Julius Beaufort, who has a reputation for risky affairs and dissipated habits. He begins to openly flirt with the countess both in public and in private. Archer prematurely announces his engagement to May, but as he comes to know the countess, he begins to appreciate her unconventional views on New York society and he becomes increasingly disillusioned with his new fiancée May and her innocence, lack of personal opinion, and sense of self.

After the countess announces her intention of divorcing her husband, Archer supports her desire for freedom, but he feels compelled to act on behalf of the family and persuade the countess to remain married. When Archer realizes that he has unwittingly been falling in love with the countess, he abruptly leaves the next day to be reunited with May and her parents, who are in St. Augustine, Florida, on vacation. Archer asks May to shorten their engagement, but May becomes suspicious and asks him if his hurry to get married is prompted by the fear that he is marrying the wrong person. Archer reassures May that he is in love with her. When back in New York, Archer calls on the countess and admits that he is in love with her, but a telegram arrives from May announcing that her parents have pushed forward the wedding date.

After their wedding and honeymoon, Archer and May settle down to married life in New York. Over time, Archer's memory of the countess fades.

When the countess returns to New York to care for her grandmother, she and Archer resume their friendship and then admit their love for each other. They arrange to meet secretly to consummate their relationship, but before the liaison can occur, the countess suddenly announces her intention to return to Europe.

Two weeks later, May throws a farewell party for the countess. After the guests leave, May tells Archer that she is pregnant and admits that she told the countess this news two weeks earlier despite not being sure of it at the time (the implication being that May suspected Newland’s affair of the heart and told Ellen specifically to push her into returning to Europe instead of pursuing Archer).

The years pass: Archer is 57 and has been a dutiful, loving father and faithful husband. The Archers had four children. May died of infectious pneumonia and Archer mourned her in earnest. Archer's engaged son, Ted, persuades him to travel to Paris. Ted has arranged for them to visit Countess Olenska there. Archer has not seen her in over 25 years. Ted confides to his father that May had confessed on her deathbed that "... she knew we were safe with you, and always would be. Because once, when she asked you to, you gave up the thing you wanted most."  Archer responds, "She never asked me." That evening outside the countess' apartment, Archer sends his son alone to visit her. Sitting outside in the courtyard, he recollects their time together and slowly walks off.

####Ain't Them Bodies Saints####
Ruth Guthrie walks across a field and is followed by Bob Muldoon, who tries to dissuade Ruth from leaving him to return to her mother's.  Ruth is adamant and reveals that she is angry because Bob told Freddy that he was going to 'strike out on his own'. Bob says  this isn't the case. Ruth reveals she is pregnant, and they reconcile.

Later, Bob and Freddy commit a crime while Ruth waits in the getaway car. The police, including Patrick Wheeler, pursue them to farmhouse. In the ensuing gunfight, Freddy is killed and Ruth shoots Patrick. Bob takes the fall for shooting Patrick and the crime committed earlier so Ruth can avoid jail. Bob and Ruth surrender their weapons. They are apprehended and Bob jailed. Ruth tells Skerrit, Freddy's father, that she is going to wait for Bob. Bob writes several letters from jail, promising Ruth to be back with her and their child. Ruth gives birth to their daughter, Sylvie.

Years pass. Ruth and Sylvie live a normal life in the small town of Meridian, Texas. Patrick, who does not know it was Ruth that actually shot him, notices Ruth and Sylvie around town, but Ruth avoids any contact with him. One day, Patrick makes a visit to Ruth's residence and tells her that Bob has escaped from prison. The local detective questions Ruth as to Bob's whereabouts, and Ruth tells him that Bob has not come to visit her. Meanwhile, Bob is traversing Missouri to escape the authorities. He makes it to Texas and obtains help from his friend Sweetie.  Meanwhile, three bounty hunters, led by an individual called Bear, visit Skerrit's hardware store and make general inquiries about the town.

Patrick visits Ruth to return her letters the police looked over after Bob escaped. He tells her that she should move to a safer place, which Ruth takes to mean as until Bob is caught. Bob visits Skerrit at his hardware store, where Skerrit tells him there are many people who want him dead and that Bob needs to stay away from Ruth and Sylvie. Patrick visits Sweetie's establishment, asking if he has seen Bob. As they go upstairs, Bob narrowly escapes but leaves behind a photo of Ruth and Sylvie.

On the day of Sylvie's birthday party, Patrick gives Sylvie a guitar. While talking with Sylvie at the party, Patrick learns that Ruth has been planning a trip with Sylvie. Bob arrives at the house but notices Patrick and subsequently leaves. Bob returns to the original shootout location and encounters the bounty hunters. They shoot at him, and he kills one during a struggle, but he is also seriously wounded. He gets away but is chased by the third. Bob coerces a driver, Will, to drive him back to Ruth's house. Will tries to tell Bob that he should be taken to a hospital but Bob refuses, insisting to be taken to Ruth's house.

Sylvie wakes up to find her mother sleeping on the sofa in Patrick's arms. They are startled by gunshots outside. Patrick runs out to investigate and finds the third bounty hunter in a shootout with Skerrit. Patrick shoots the bounty hunter dead and finds that Skerrit is fatally wounded. Ruth and Sylvie are taken to the police station for questioning and safekeeping. When Patrick returns them to their home, they find the front door open and Patrick goes in to investigate, finding a grievously wounded Bob. Ruth follows Patrick into the house and stops Patrick from approaching Bob. Ruth tends to Bob, and Sylvie enters to see her father dying in the arms of her mother. Patrick takes Sylvie back outside and comforts her, while her parents exchange a few last words.

####Algiers####
Pepe le Moko is a notorious thief, who, after his last great heist, escaped from France to Algeria. Since his escape, le Moko became a resident and leader of the immense Casbah, or "native quarter", of Algiers. French officials who arrive insisting on Pepe's capture are met with unfazed local detectives, led by Inspector Slimane, who are biding their time. Meanwhile, Pepe begins to feel increasingly trapped in his prison-like stronghold, a feeling which intensifies after meeting the beautiful Gaby, who is visiting from France. His love for Gaby soon arouses the jealousy of Ines, Pepe's Algerian mistress.

The song in this film is called "C'est la Vie" which means "That's Life" in French.

####Alice Adams####
Alice Adams (Katharine Hepburn) is the daughter of the Adams family. Her father, (Fred Stone), is an invalid employed as a clerk in a factory owned by Mr. Lamb (Charles Grapewin), who has kept Adams on salary for years despite his lengthy illness. Her mother, (Ann Shoemaker), is embittered by her husband's lack of ambition and upset by the snubs endured by her daughter because of their poverty. Alice's older brother Walter (Frank Albertson) is a gambler who cannot hold a job and associates with African Americans, which, given the time period in which the film is set, is considered a major social embarrassment.

As the film begins, Alice attends a dance given by the wealthy Mildred Palmer (Evelyn Venable). She has no date, and she is escorted to the occasion by Walter. Alice, a social climber like her mother, engages in socially-inappropriate behavior and conversation in an attempt to impress others. At the dance, Alice meets wealthy Arthur Russell (Fred MacMurray), who is charmed by her despite her poverty.

Alice's mother nags her husband into quitting his job and pouring his life savings into a glue factory. Mr. Lamb ostracizes Mr. Adams from society in the belief that Adams stole the glue formula from him. Alice is the subject of cruel town gossip, which Russell ignores.

Alice invites Russell to the Adams home for a fancy meal. She and her mother put on airs, the entire family dresses inappropriately in formal wear despite the hot summer night, and the Adamses pretend that they eat caviar and fancy rich-tasting food all the time. The dinner is ruined by Alice's inability to keep up the lie, but she blames the situation on the supposed slovenly behavior and poor cooking skills of Malena (Hattie McDaniel), the maid hired by the Adamses for the occasion. Mr. Adams unwittingly embarrasses Alice by exposing the many lies she has told Russell. When Walter shows up with bad financial news, Alice gently expels Russell from the house now that everything is "ruined."

Walter claims that "a friend of mine got in a jam," and to help his friend, Walter has stolen $150 from Mr. Lamb. (The obvious implication is that Walter stole the money to pay off his own gambling debts.) Mr. Adams decides to take a loan against his new factory to save Walter from jail.

Just then, Mr. Lamb appears at the Adams house, accuses Adams of stealing the glue formula from him, and declares his intention to ruin Adams by building a glue factory directly across the street from the Adams plant. The men argue violently, but their friendship is saved when Alice confesses that her parents took the glue formula only so that she could have a better life and some social status. Lamb and Adams reconcile, and Lamb indicates that he will not prosecute Walter.

Alice wanders onto the porch, where Russell has been waiting for her. He confesses his love for her despite her poverty and family problems.

####All God's Creatures####
Jon, a man who hates women, brings a woman back to his apartment after a night out.  He pours wine for them, but drugs Jeanie's and she passes out.  He wraps her in a plastic tarp and places duct tape over her mouth and proceeds to stab her to death with a screw driver. He dismembers her body, keeping her hand in a jar as a memento.

Jon is working as a barista when Delia comes in, flirts with him, and he imagines attacking her and quickly decides to make her his next victim.  Jon goes out that evening and a prostitute offers him a "date", which he accepts and then strangles her. Delia works as an escort, and has taken out an ad online on Craigslist.

Delia comes back into the coffee shop and they flirt more.  She asks him to take her out, and they go to a bar.  Delia tells him she just moved to town and her parents are dead. She is trying to save money so that she can bring her little sister, Lydia, to live with her.  He tells her he is a neat freak.  At the end of the night, they are in front of the building Jon lives in.  She wants to come up to his place, but he makes lame excuses why he cannot.  Delia gets his phone number and leaves.  Jon calls an escort to come over, and he hits her with a hammer, killing her.

Back at the coffee shop, Jon anxiously watches for Delia to come in and is disappointed when she does not and goes to her apartment.  He invites her to go to the movies with him.  At the coffee shop again, Jon asks Delia to come behind the counter and they make prank calls.  She remembers she has an appointment with a client at a hotel.  Jon is visibly upset that she left, goes home and clears out the jars of body parts and paints the walls.

Delia goes to an appointment with a career counselor who offers her a job as an elevator operator.  She walks by the coffee shop and sees that Jon is not there. She calls Lydia and leaves a voicemail telling her to get some things together and that she is going to go get her.  Jon calls and says he wanted to surprise her by cooking her dinner since he feels bad about standing her up the night before. She is about to tell him she cannot go, but changes her mind.

At Jon's place, Delia excitedly tells him about her new job, and she accidentally spills wine onto the carpet. He looks at her enraged, but laughs about it and they begin to make out and then go to his bedroom to have sex.  While she is waiting for Delia to pick her up, Lydia's stepfather has figured out her plan to run away and tells her he won't let her go and he rapes her.  The next morning, Jon makes Delia breakfast in bed, but she says she has to leave.  Jon is insulted when he tells her what they did was special to him, and it was not to her.

After she leaves, Jon continues to call her on the phone, but she doesn't answer.  Delia arrives at the house to get Lydia, and finds her body in the bathtub and sees that she has committed suicide.  Jon goes out to a bar that evening and gets drunk. A girl hits on him, thinking he is a professional baseball player for The Mets and he takes her home with him.  He strangles her to death as they have sex on the couch.

Delia walks in and not being sure what she saw, Jon grabs her and covers her mouth.  He lets her go and she asks why he has not killed her yet.  She helps him clean up the mess and they throw the body into a river.  They make a plan to kill Delia's stepfather.  They wait for his train to come in and they strangle him, but they see he his still alive and stab him to death with a broken bottle.

####All Good Things####
In 1970s New York City, David Marks, the son of a powerful real estate tycoon Sanford Marks, marries Katie McCarthy, a working-class student. Together they try to establish a new life in Vermont, setting up a health food store called All Good Things. However, Sanford manipulates David into returning to the city, telling him that Katie deserves more than he's currently giving her. Upon their return, Katie brings up the idea of having children. David says it will never ever happen, which leads Katie to assume something is wrong with his fertility. After buying a lake house, Katie confesses to their pregnant neighbor that she is expecting as well. David responds angrily upon finding out and forces Katie to make an appointment for an abortion. He misses the appointment when he is called away to do work for his father.

Katie enters medical school while her relationship with David continues to deteriorate. She makes inquiries about a separation, but her funds, which she needs in order to pay for school, are cut off when she attempts to leave. Having been advised that she will need leverage to compel the family to let her leave David, Katie attempts to find incriminating documents of their financial activities. She then disappears without a trace in 1982, despite a $15,000 reward offered for any information on her whereabouts.

Eighteen years later, the case is reopened by the district attorney after reading an unpublished novel written by David's best friend, Deborah Lehrman, which contains a murder almost identical to the Marks case. Soon after this is announced, Lehrman is shot and killed in her home, and David is under suspicion again while standing trial for the murder of his neighbor Malvern Bump in Texas. David is acquitted of the murder of Bump; the film states that nobody has ever been tried for Lehrman's murder and that Katie remains a missing person to this day. A flash-back implies that David left his wife's remains in the trunk of her car, which the father finds. The film ends with David visiting his dying father and whispering to him, "I miss her so much." It's left to the viewer to decide whether he is talking about Katie or his mother.

####All I Desire####
In about 1910, Naomi Murdoch, who has not been back to see her husband or children in the small town of Riverdale, Wisconsin since she abandoned them at the turn of the twentieth century to become a stage actress, is struggling near the bottom of the bill in a traveling vaudeville show. One day, she receives a letter from her daughter Lily, inviting her to come home to attend Lily's acting debut in the high school senior play. A fellow vaudeville actress convinces Naomi to return to her family and pretend to be the successful international stage actress she told them she has become.

Naomi's arrival in Riverdale does not go unnoticed, and Clem, the town gossip, starts spreading the word. The first person he tells is Dutch Heinemann, the owner of the hunting and fishing store, whose affair with Naomi was part of the reason she left.

When she gets to her family's home, Naomi is greeted enthusiastically by Lily, but her eldest daughter, Joyce, who has taken on the role of running the household, is bitter about her mother's long absence. Her youngest child, Ted, who is friendly with Dutch, does not remember her. Henry, Naomi's husband and the principal at Lily's school, is unsure how he feels about Naomi being back, particularly because any controversy could threaten his impending promotion to superintendent and he is in a fledgling relationship with Sara Harper, the drama teacher at the high school.

Lily performs to a full house, though most of the townspeople have come to gawk at Naomi, rather than to see the play. After the play, the Murdochs host a party at their home, during which Naomi charms the high schoolers and feelings between her and Henry begin to resurface. Naomi had planned to leave on the late train, but misses it because Lily secretly moves the hands back on their clock. Lily invites Naomi to stay for her graduation, and Henry agrees that Naomi should stay. Outside the house, Dutch waits for Naomi in vain.

The following morning, Naomi goes horseback riding with Joyce and Russ Underwood, Joyce's fiancé. They stop at a spot by a lake where Naomi and Dutch used to have their trysts, and Joyce and Russ ride on without Naomi. Dutch approaches Naomi, thinking that she purposefully sent them away in order to meet with him. Surprised to see him, Naomi rebuffs him and tells him that she does not want to resume their affair, as it would create a scandal for her family. He is not deterred and says he expects to rendezvous with Naomi before she leaves the next day.

After Naomi arrives back at the house, Sara, who has seen that Henry still has feelings for Naomi, asks her to do a recitation at the graduation as a way to improve Naomi's reputation in the town. Joyce enters and tells Naomi the main reason she has been cold to her mother is that Naomi's return has been hard on Henry, and the two agree Naomi should leave right away. However, when Naomi tells Henry she plans to leave, the two talk and reconcile, much to the chagrin of Lily, who had hoped to travel with Naomi and have her use her (nonexistent) connections to establish the girl in the theatrical world.

Dutch sends his special signal to Naomi the morning of the graduation, and she goes to meet him at their spot by the lake. She tells him to leave her alone, but he does not believe she no longer has feelings for him and tries to force himself on her. They struggle and Naomi accidentally shoots Dutch with his rifle. Ted happens by and helps Naomi take Dutch to Dr. Tomlin, the town doctor. He says he thinks Dutch will live, but suggests Naomi go away again to help spare her family's reputation. Lily wants to come with her, so Naomi finally confesses that her career has actually been a total failure.

Henry visits Dutch and is reassured, after seeing his wounds and anger, that Naomi wants nothing more to do with him. He encourages Joyce to let go of her anger towards her mother and, skipping the graduation, goes home to prevent Naomi from leaving. He asks her to forgive him for driving her away ten years earlier and they kiss.

####All I See Is You####
Married couple Gina (Blake Lively) and James (Jason Clarke) live happily despite Gina's dependence on James due to her being blind. James appears to enjoy the dependence, saying that it makes him feel special. As they try for a baby, Gina prepares for a cornea transplant, which will restore the sight in one of her eyes. The surgery is a success, and Gina embraces her newfound independence. Immediately, her sex life with James suffers. To put the spark back into their marriage, James books them a holiday to Spain, promising Gina that he has reserved the same hotel room they had on their honeymoon. Upon their arrival, Gina claims the room is not the same, which James denies. Gina is later proven to be correct.
During the trip, Gina is shown to be growing in independence and confidence while James is left behind, seemingly unable to connect to the version of her that no longer depends on him. Resentful of her diverted attention, James begins to show signs of possessiveness.

On their way to Barcelona, they attempt to have sex on a sleeper train. James, blindfolded, demands to know who Gina fantasizes about when she masturbates, seemingly doubtful when she answers that she only thinks of him. Gina finally reveals that she does think of other men. James later watches a video of the encounter, obsessed with his helplessness and Gina's emotionless face.

In Barcelona, Gina and James arrive at Gina's sister's house. One night, Gina visits a peep show with her sister and brother-in-law. James declines their invitation to join and appears uncomfortable when Gina's brother-in-law jokingly suggests that Gina may find someone better looking. While walking back to the house, Gina is groped by a stranger on the street, whom her brother-in-law punches. Back at her sister and brother-in-law's house, James is mad at Gina for embarrassing him in front of her sister when she got mad at him for not sticking up for her.

Back home in Thailand, Gina begins to have trouble with her vision: her eyes water unusually and her vision worsens. Confused and terrified by her returning blindness, Gina brings her eye drops to her doctor, who promises to test them for contamination. James learns that he is sterile but does not tell Gina.

While James purchases a new house at Gina's insistence, Gina begins to flirt with Daniel, an attractive man she had met at the public pool. When her dog overheats during a walk, Daniel offers to take them back to his home for water. There, he and Gina have sex. Gina later reveals to James that she is pregnant, unintentionally confirming her affair as she is unaware of James's infertility. James does not confront her. Similarly, when Gina learns from her doctor that her eye drops have been tampered with, she does not confront James. Their home is broken into and their dog is stolen.

Some time later, a visibly pregnant Gina is apparently having trouble with her vision, now in need of her old cane and aid from James.  She and James move into their new house. At one point, James tests Gina's blindness, intentionally hiding from her in her blind spot. He makes plans to meet her at a local school for a talent show in which she is performing. While he is gone, Gina receives an anonymous letter, written in crayon, which reveals that James was the one who staged the home invasion and released their dog. The writer claims to have rescued the dog but refuses to return it because "when I look into her eyes, she looks back at me, and that is called love."

James goes to their old apartment to collect the last of his and Gina's belongings. In the bathroom, he uncovers a stash of empty eye drop bottles. He realizes that Gina discovered his deception and secretly continued to obtain eye drops from the doctor, meaning that she has been faking her returning blindness. Gina confirms this when she looks directly at him during the talent show. Distraught, James drives home in tears, and seems to purposefully crash into an oncoming truck and dies.

After Gina gives birth, Gina and her baby see each other for the first time.

####All My Life####
Based on a true story, Jenn and her friends decide to stop at a bar to have a few beers before dinner. They then run into Sol and his friends over a short discussion of UFC and embarrassing pickup lines to get a girl. After a few conversations over beer, Sol and Jenn start a seamless relationship. They then decide to live together so Sol can pursue his passion of being a chef after Sol expresses how working where he is currently isn't what he wants to do. After analyzing bills that are piling up, he decides to stay at work.

The couple host friendsgiving and Sol starts to feel weird but ignores it. He whispers to Jen over a thank you toast to the friends and family that he put in his two weeks notice. Later in the season, he decides to propose to Jen with their family and friends singing their favorite song "Don’t Look Back in Anger" by Oasis. Sol starts working at Jenn's cousin's successful restaurant.

One night, Sol wakes up in pain, screaming to Jen that something is wrong. They find out that Sol has a tumor and he reassures Jen that everything will be okay once the doctors get rid of it. Sol suggests to Jen if the news is bad, they should get a dog. After getting the lab work back from the doctor, he tells them that everything is fine and that the labs are good. They decide to continue planning the wedding and Sol returns back to the restaurant with his dish on the menu. One day, Sol texts Jen telling her to come home. He greets her with a dog named Otis, and after a month or two, his cancer has progressed and he needs to start clinical trial for his recovery. They discuss postponing the wedding, but their friends suggest throwing them a quick wedding in three weeks with the help of strangers and friends while Sol does his treatment. In the midst of planning the wedding, Sol's friend Kyle misses everything because his illness reminds him of losing his dad which he hasn't dealt with. Sol talks to Jenn about having all the side effects of the trial, such as not being able to taste food and that she should just move on with her life. She tells him that she is here with him and he isn't alone. Jenn and Sol get married in front of all their friends and family. After the wedding, Kyle shows up to the reception.

Jenn and Sol get Sol's x-rays and the doctor tells Jen that the cancer has spread to his whole liver and other areas and that she should ask Sol anything she wants because it is time. Jenn and Sol prepare for him to pass soon by writing his eulogy.

Jenn walks to Dave and Kyle's new restaurant/bar, called Now or Never, which was Sol's favorite line. Jenn talks about Sol and his inspiration he had on everyone. Amanda and Megan tell Jenn that it's time for her to open up Sol's gift for their honeymoon which they had been keeping a secret for this moment, after his death. On a flash drive, there is a video of Sol thanking Jenn for loving him during the time they spent together. Jenn says she will live for today for the rest of her life because of Sol.

####All That Heaven Allows####
Cary Scott is an affluent widow in the town of Stoningham, in suburban New England, whose social life revolves around the weekend visits of her college-age son and daughter, her best friend's country-club activities, and a few men vying for her affection. Feeling stuck in a rut, she becomes interested in Ron Kirby, her arborist. He is an intelligent, down-to-earth, and respectful, yet passionate, younger man, and she discovers he is content with his simple life outside the materialistic society in which they live. Ron introduces Cary to his friends, who seem to have no need for wealth or status, and their exuberance provides a welcome contrast to her staid existence.

Ron and Cary fall in love, and Ron proposes. Cary accepts, but she has concerns about the viability of their relationship, due to their different ages, classes, and lifestyles. These concerns are magnified when she tells her children and friends about the engagement and is met with a solid wall of disapproval, and, eventually, she breaks up with Ron. Particularly influential in her change of mind are her children's protestations against Cary's plan to sell the family home and move to Ron's tree nursery, as they will not want to visit her there.

After spending most of the Christmas season alone, Cary misses her life with Ron, but she thinks she has missed her opportunity for happiness because she mistakenly believes Ron is seeing another woman. On Christmas, her daughter announces she will be getting married soon and her son says that, since he is likely going to study abroad and then work overseas, they should start thinking about selling their house, which is too big for just Cary. She is overwhelmed by how pointless her sacrifice was, and her spirits are not lifted when her children give her a television set to fill her empty life.

Cary goes to see a doctor about recurrent headaches she has started having, and he suggests they are being caused by her body punishing her for ending her relationship with Ron. Leaving the appointment, she runs into one of Ron's friends, and in the course of their conversation she learns that Ron is still single. She goes to his property, but then changes her mind and leaves. Ron sees her from a precipice and excitedly, though unsuccessfully, tries to get her attention. The ground collapses out from under him, and he falls off the cliff.

That night, Ron's friend tells Cary about the accident, and she hurries over to his house. She decides she no longer wants to allow other people to dictate how she lives her life and settles in to nurse Ron back to health. When Ron regains consciousness, Cary tells him that she has come home.

####All the Bright Places####
Theodore Finch and Violet Markey are two teenagers who live unhappily in a small Indiana town. Violet is quietly dealing with survivor's guilt after the death of her sister Eleanor and Finch is a loner, called a freak by other students. They meet on the bridge where Eleanor died in a car crash nine months earlier. Violet survived the crash, and has not been in a car since. She finds herself standing on the ledge of the bridge on what would have been Eleanor's nineteenth birthday. Finch, out for a run, sees Violet on the ledge and climbs up next to her, talking her down from a possible suicide.

Finch begins a partnership with Violet for a school project that requires the students to explore Indiana together. He looks up Violet on Facebook, researches her sister's car accident, reads through Violet's old writing, and chats with her online. Finch and Violet travel around Indiana to see sites chosen by him for the project. Violet refuses to travel by car, so they bike to the highest point in Indiana. However, to visit a miniature roller coaster too far away to bike to, Violet agrees to get in his car. She returns to writing, for the first time since Eleanor's death. He helps her talk about her sister, which no one else had managed to do. Violet slowly begins to heal. They fall in love.

Violet notices Finch's occasionally strange behavior. He sometimes disappears for days. One day, while they are swimming at the Blue Hole, Finch disappears under the water. By the time he resurfaces, Violet is distraught and forces him to tell her more about himself, threatening to leave if he doesn't comply. Finch reveals that he had been physically abused by his father, who sometimes got in the "dark moods."

On one occasion, Finch and Violet stay out all night by accident, upsetting Violet's parents. At school that day, Finch loses his temper on Violet's ex-boyfriend after being called "freak." The two boys fight, and Finch leaves in his car. Violet, who broke up the fight, ends up in the principal's office with Finch's closest friend, Charlie, who talks to her about Finch.

Finch attends a support group session, earlier recommended by the school guidance counselor, but nothing fruitful comes of it, partly because he cannot describe his problems. He visits the bar where his sister Kate works and prompts her to speculate on why their father was abusive, and whether he could have been helped. Upset, Kate dismisses the topic, saying she doesn't care, and that their father is someone else's problem now. Disappointed, Finch leaves for their house, where Violet is waiting. As she questions him about the post-it notes he put up, he alludes to his episodes of "dark moods" when he fails to "stay awake." Eventually, Finch is convinced he is beyond help and shouts at her to leave.

Finch disappears again. Advised by her father, Violet checks places they had visited together and drives to the Blue Hole. There, she finds Finch's clothes and phone, and correctly infers that he has drowned. Some time later, she attends his funeral.

While healing from Finch's suicide, Violet finds the map they used to travel around Indiana and notices the last location they were supposed to visit together marked in red. It's the Travelers' Prayers Chapel, a resting place for travelers and a place of healing for mourners. She finds his signature in the guest book.

With Finch gone, Violet presents their school project alone. She reads aloud her writing on the lessons Finch taught her. Little did Violet know, Finch killed himself, by drowning himself. When she saw on the news the ha had drowned she was devastated.

####All the Brothers Were Valiant####
Mark Shore (Lon Chaney), the elder brother of Joel (McGregor), was captain of a whaling schooner called the "Nathan Ross", but when his ship returned to port from a trip to the Gilbert Islands, he was no longer aboard. Joel, who was working on another ship at the time, asks to be transferred to his brother's ship for a 3-year sojourn so that he can try to locate him. The request is granted and Joel takes his brother's place on the "Nathan Ross".

Before he sets sail, he marries Priscilla Holt (Dove) and takes his bride with him on the journey. While his family history shows that all of their men-folk were brave and courageous, Priscilla thinks that her husband is really a coward at heart. Priscilla rapidly gets bored with sailing, and the smell of cooking whale blubber makes her sick to her stomach.

Joel finds his brother Mark who suddenly hops aboard the ship one night as it rounds Cape Horn. Mark explains that he was drinking heavily that night and the ship left port without him. Mark makes advances toward Joel's wife, and she complains to her husband. Mark tries to get Joel to change course and go with him to retrieve a cache of valuable pearls that he hid on an island, but Joel refuses. Mark incites the crew to mutiny by spreading rumors of the hidden treasure. Joel keeps order for a while but is soon overpowered and tied up. Aaron Burnham, the ship's carpenter, remains loyal to Joel and manages to release him from captivity.

Mark realizes his mistake and tries to call off the mutiny, but in the melee, he is hit on the head and falls into the sea. Joel jumps in and tries to rescue him, but Mark disappears below the surface before he can reach him. The mutiny is quelled and Priscilla realizes her husband is a true hero after all. At the end, Joel writes in the ship's logbook "All the brothers were valiant."

####All the Fine Young Cannibals####
Two young people in love, musician Chad Bixby and Sarah "Salome" Davis, are forced apart despite Salome's pregnancy and marry others, but are then brought together again by chance. A downtrodden blues singer mothers Bixby while guiding his career.

####All the Real Girls####
A young womanizer living in a small Southern town, Paul earns a living fixing cars for his uncle. He still lives with his mother, Elvira, who works as a clown cheering up children at the local hospital.

Paul spends most of his time hanging out with his best friend and self-proclaimed partner-in-crime, Tip, and their friends Bo and Bust-Ass. Among his friends, Paul has a reputation as a ladies' man, but is not at all known for being involved with long-term relationships; most of his romances last only a few weeks, and he's slept with nearly every girl in town.

Beginning to reach a point where he would like to lead a different life, this feeling becomes much clearer when Paul meets Noel. She is Tip's teenage sister, who has returned home after attending boarding school. Noel is more thoughtful and mature than the girls Paul is used to.

Paul and Noel soon fall in love, but for him this is a different sort of relationship than he's accustomed to — Noel is still a virgin, and her contemplative nature gives him a desire to be a better, stronger person,

Tip does not approve of Paul dating his younger sister, which leads to a rift between these longtime friends.

####All This, and Heaven Too####
Mademoiselle Henriette Deluzy-Desportes, a French woman, starts teaching at an American girls school. She is confronted by the tales and gossip about her that circulate among her pupils and, thus provoked, she decides to tell them her life story.

Deluzy-Desportes is governess to the four children of the Duc and Duchesse de Praslin in Paris during the last years of the Orleans monarchy. As a result of the Duchesse's constantly erratic and temperamental behavior, all that remains is an unhappy marriage, but the Duc remains with his wife for sake of their children.

Deluzy-Desportes, with her warmth and kindness, wins the love and affection of the children and their father, but also the jealousy and hatred of their mother. She is forced to leave and the Duchess refuses to give her a letter of recommendation to future employers. The Duc confronts his wife and she invents alternative letters taking opposite attitudes, which in fact she has not written and does not intend to write. Her account enrages him and, at the breaking point, he kills her.

The Duc de Praslin is in a privileged position; as a peer his case can only be heard by other nobles. He refuses to confess his guilt or openly to admit his love for his employee, knowing that his fellow nobles wish to use such an admission to blame her for the murder by declaring that he was acting at her bidding. Ultimately the Duc takes poison to prevent himself from ever publicly proclaiming his love for Henriette, since he knows that would convict her; however, he lives long enough to reveal it to another of his servants, Pierre, a kindly old man who had warned the governess to leave the de Praslin household. With the Duc's death, the authorities accept that they have no evidence upon which to base a judgment that Henriette solicited the murder and she is released.

Deluzy-Desportes had been recommended for the teaching position "in the land of the free" by an American minister, Rev. Henry Field, to whom she had expressed a loss of faith while in prison. He proposes marriage, and it is implied that Henriette will accept.

####Allied####
In 1942 during World War II, Wing Commander Max Vatan, a Royal Canadian Air Force pilot with intelligence duties, travels to Casablanca in Morocco to assassinate a German ambassador. He is partnered with a French Resistance fighter, Marianne Beauséjour, who escaped from France after her resistance group was compromised and killed.

They pose as a married couple and grow close, despite agreeing that in their line of work feelings can get people killed. Marianne, who is trusted by the Germans, secures Max an invitation to the party where they plan to conduct the assassination. On the day itself, they have sex inside a car in the middle of a desert sandstorm, knowing they might not survive. However, the mission is successful and they escape. Max asks Marianne to come with him to London and be his wife. They marry, settle down in Hampstead, and have a baby girl, Anna, who is born during a bombing raid.

A year later in 1944, Max learns from the Special Operations Executive that Marianne is suspected of being a German spy, having adopted her identity after the real Marianne was killed in France, and that the German ambassador they assassinated was a dissident Hitler wanted dead. To test their suspicions, SOE run a "blue dye" operation: Max is ordered to write down a piece of false intelligence at home, where Marianne can find it. If the information is picked up from intercepted German transmissions, Max must personally execute her, and if he is found to be an accomplice he will be hanged for high treason. He is told to otherwise act normally and not conduct his own investigation.

Defiant, Max visits Guy Sangster, a former colleague who knew Marianne; however, Sangster, blinded in the war, cannot confirm her identity. He reveals that resistance fighter Paul Delamare, who worked with Marianne in France, is still alive in Dieppe and could identify her. Max finds a young pilot, Adam Hunter, gives him a photograph with a "classified" note—asking if the woman in the photo is Marianne Beauséjour—and instructs him to obtain a "yes" or "no" answer from Delamare.

Max and Marianne host a house party. His commanding officer, Frank Heslop, comes and tells him that Hunter was killed while waiting on the ground for the answer from Delamare and berates him for his insubordination. Max wonders if what he was told about Marianne is a test of his loyalty as part of a promotion to V-Section.

The next evening, Max takes the place of a Lysander pilot and flies to France to meet Delamare, who is being held at the local police station. Max and the local resistance break into the town's jail, but Delamare is drunk and unconvincingly verifies the picture. The delay gives the French police officer room to alert the Germans, whom Max and the resistance manage to defeat. Prior to leaving, Delamare tells Max that Marianne was a talented pianist who had once played "La Marseillaise" in defiance of the occupying Germans in the early stages of the war.

Back in England, Max takes Marianne to a local pub and demands she play the piano. She cannot. She admits she is a spy and forwarded the "blue dye" message, which Max left in plain view. She insists her feelings for Max are genuine, and that she was forced back into being a spy because German agents were threatening Anna.

Max, unwilling to kill her, tells her they must flee the country. He kills Marianne's German handlers, a nanny and a jeweller. They drive to a local airbase, but Max cannot get the plane to start before Heslop and the military police arrive. He tries to plead his case before the officers, but Marianne tells him that she loves him, asks him to take care of Anna, then shoots herself. Heslop orders the soldiers present to report that Max executed Marianne as per his orders, so that Max will not be punished. After the war, Max moves to a ranch in Alberta to raise Anna.

####Aloma of the South Seas####
Aloma and Prince Tanoa,  are promised by the islanders to wed from their childhood, though the two despise each other and fight.  Tanoa is sent to the United States for an education and does not return for 15 years after the death of his father.  Once crowned, Tanoa's treacherous cousin Revo who has plotted to rule in place of Tanoa since childhood, sees his chance by arming himself and his band with rifles and a light machine gun.

####Always Goodbye####
Following the death of her fiancé as he was speeding to their wedding, Margot Weston is left pregnant and devastated. A former doctor, Jim Howard, helps the desperate Margot. When her son is born, Jim helps her find a home for the baby with Phil Marshall and his wife. Margot insists that neither the Marshalls nor the child can ever know that she is his mother.

Five years later, while working as a well-paid buyer for couturier Harriet Martin, Margot meets Jim Howard again, and the two begin to fall in love. When Margot is sent to Europe on a business trip for Harriet, she meets and is wooed by the charming and carefree Count Giovanni Corini. While in Paris, she happens to meet her son, Roddy, who is traveling with his aunt who has been taking care of him since his adoptive mother died.

On the trip back to America, Margot and Roddy become close. Giovanni is also on the same ship, and he continues to pursue Margot. Back home, Margot becomes convinced that Jessica Reid, Phil's new fiancée, does not love him, and would be a bad mother to Roddy. Margot decides to break up the engagement, though Jim, beginning a career as a scientist, reminds her of her earlier promise not to interfere in the boy's life.

Phil overhears a conversation between Margot and Jessica which brings their engagement to an end. Meanwhile, Jim tries to ask Margot to marry him, but then Phil asks Margot to marry him for his and Roddy's sake. Though Margot admits she loves Jim, he steps aside so that she can have a life with Roddy and Phil.

####Always the Woman####
Celia Thaxter (Compson) is an American vaudeville actress who is on a journey to Egypt, becoming engaged to Reginald Stanhope (Gerald Pring) during the voyage. Once they reach the Sahara desert, the couple becomes part of a treasure hunt led by another passenger native to the region, Kelim Pasha (Macey Harlam). During the trek, Pasha starts coming on to Celia, while Stanhope does nothing to help her, as it's revealed that he was merely a tool of Pasha. Celia is eventually saved by another woman in the party, who kills Pasha, and Celia finds true romance at last with an American whose life she had saved during her voyage.

####American Beauty####
Middle-aged executive Lester Burnham hates his job and is unhappily married to neurotic and ambitious real estate broker Carolyn. Their 16-year-old daughter, Jane, abhors her parents and has low self-esteem. Retired US Marine colonel Frank Fitts, his near-catatonic wife Barbara, and their teenage son Ricky move in next door. Ricky documents the world around him with a camcorder, collecting recordings on videotape in his bedroom, while using his part-time catering jobs as a front for dealing marijuana. Strict disciplinarian and abusive Frank has previously had Ricky committed to a psychiatric hospital and sent to a military academy. Gay couple Jim Olmeyer and Jim Berkley, also neighbors to the Burnhams, welcome the Fitts family. Frank later reveals his homophobia when angrily discussing the encounter with Ricky.

During a dance routine at a school basketball game, Lester becomes infatuated with Jane's friend, Angela. He starts having sexual fantasies about her, in which red rose petals are a recurring motif. Carolyn begins an affair with married business rival Buddy Kane. Lester is informed by his supervisor that he is to be laid off; Lester blackmails him into giving him an indulgent severance package and starts working at a drive-through restaurant. He buys his dream car, a 1970 Pontiac Firebird, and starts working out after overhearing Angela teasing Jane that she would have sex with him if he improved his physique. He begins smoking marijuana supplied by Ricky and flirts with Angela. The girls' friendship wanes when Jane starts a relationship with Ricky, whom Angela scoffs at.

Lester discovers Carolyn's infidelity when she and Kane order a meal at Lester's restaurant. He reacts with smug satisfaction. Buddy fears a costly divorce and ends the affair, while Carolyn is humiliated and simultaneously frustrated by her lack of professional success. Frank, suspicious of Lester and Ricky's friendship, finds footage Ricky captured by chance of Lester lifting weights while naked and wrongly concludes they are sexually involved. He viciously accuses Ricky of prostitution, which Ricky falsely admits to and goads his father into throwing him out. Carolyn, sitting distraught in her car, withdraws a handgun from the glove box. At home, Jane is arguing with Angela over her flirtation with Lester when Ricky interrupts to ask Jane to leave with him for New York City. He calls Angela ugly, boring, and ordinary.

Frank tentatively approaches Lester, then breaks down and tearfully embraces him. Lester begins to comfort Frank until Frank attempts to kiss him. Lester gently rebuffs him, saying he has misunderstood, and Frank walks back out into the rain. Lester finds Angela sitting alone in the dark. He consoles her, saying she is beautiful and anything but ordinary. He asks what she wants, and she says she does not know. She asks him what he wants, and he says he has always wanted her. He takes her to the couch and as he begins to undress her, Angela admits her virginity. Lester is taken aback to realize her apparent experience was a veil for her innocence, and he cannot continue. He comforts her as they share their frustrations. Angela goes to the bathroom as Lester smiles at a family photograph, when an unseen figure shoots Lester in the back of the head at point-blank range. Ricky and Jane find Lester's body. Carolyn is in her closet, discarding her gun and crying hysterically as she hugs Lester's clothing. A bloodied Frank, wearing surgical gloves, returns home: a gun is missing from his collection.

Lester's closing narration describes meaningful experiences during his life. He says that, despite his death, he is happy there is still so much beauty in the world.

####Anatomy of a Love Seen####
Zoe (Sharon Hinnendael) and Mal (Jill Evyn) are two actresses who meet while filming a movie where they're cast as lovers. They end up falling in love in the process and all seems to go well until months later when Mal abandons her lover just when Zoe's career starts to really take off. While it appears that Mal had little reason to leave her lover, the truth is that Mal was formerly a drug addict and was afraid that Zoe would leave her, so she left Zoe before this could happen. The two end up being drawn back together when they're called back by Kara (Marina Rice Bader), the film director, to re-shoot their lovemaking scene for TV network distribution.

Zoe and Mal initially have a problem acting as both have pent-up feelings for each other, but Anne Pasternak (Constance Brenneman), the film's producer, helps them to work professionally. Anne also comforts both Zoe and Mal individually and keeps their confidence afloat. Zoe gets a call from her agent, who tells her that she should not have any shooting today. Zoe is then suspicious and calls Kara out. Kara then reveals to Zoe that there is no broadcast deal and she did this to ensure Zoe and Mal got back together. Zoe is upset upon hearing this and starts having a nervous breakdown. Anne once again helps calm the situation and Mal also calms Zoe down and kisses her. This decreases the tension between them and they are finally able to shoot the first scene.

Everyone is happy that they can move to the next shot. Zoe and Mal have a moment together and Zoe questions her why Mal left her. Mal explains her reason but Zoe is still upset and they end up arguing which prompts Kara and Anne to intervene, this finally leads to Kara revealing that there was no broadcast deal and that Kara was amazed to see Zoe and Mal fall in love with each other six months ago on the same set. She wanted Zoe and Mal to get back together and prove that love does exist. Kara then ends up canceling the shoot and packs up. Anne follows and demands to know the whole truth as she had worked for 15 years with Kara. Anne also tells her that she wanted Kara to notice her efforts. Kara then replies that Anne has always done an amazing job and that she is Anne's biggest fan. Anne then tells Kara that she loves her and kisses Kara (which surprises her).

Mal and Zoe continue to argue, and Zoe tells Mal that she is exactly like her mother. This upsets Mal, who locks herself in the restroom. Zoe apologizes for what she said and tries to console her, but Mal does not give in. Zoe then leaves the studio and sits in the middle of the road. Mal then comes searching for her and the two end up staring at each other with tears in both of their eyes.

The film concludes with a flashback scene to six months earlier where both Mal and Zoe fell in love with each other after filming their lovemaking scene and that they went home and made love to each other (for real and off-camera) for the first time.

####And One Was Beautiful####
Glamorous socialite Helen Lattimer is reaching for the top of society, while her younger sister Kate is perfectly content as she is.

Helen is very determined not to go to a seemingly dull party, so she sends Kate instead. At the party, Kate meets playboy Ridley Crane. They hit it off and spend the evening talking about cars. Kate is instantly smitten by Ridley, but he is more interested in her beautiful and more glamorous sister.

The night after, Ridley gets drunk at a road house and passes out. Helen decides to drive him home in his sports car, but she is not used to the roadster manual shift gear and hits and kills a bicyclist. Helen runs away, leaving Ridley behind in the car. Ridley is arrested and charged with manslaughter.

When Helen returns home very upset, Kate suspects that there is something wrong. Helen has stains on her driving gloves and she immediately starts burying a small package in the garden. Kate digs up the package, which contains her sister's shoe with a missing heel. Kate knows that a heel was found in Ridley's car, but when she confronts her sister, Helen denies everything.

Kate goes on to tell Ridley about what she has found, but he decides to shield Helen and pleads guilty. The judge makes an example of him and sentences him to five to ten years in Sing Sing. Kate takes every opportunity to remind her sister that she is responsible, driving Helen to marry a lawyer to escape the incessant accusations.

Kate visits Ridley as often as allowed. Ridley has arranged for the dead man's family to be financially secure, and Kate sees them regularly as well to make sure everything is alright. Kate eventually has them write letters to the governor asking for a pardon. It works. Meanwhile, Helen separates from a husband she finds excruciatingly boring. When Ridley is released from prison, she is eagerly waiting for him, assuming they will get married, but he proposes to Kate instead.

####And While We Were Here####
Jane and her husband, Leonard, travel to Naples, where Leonard has been hired to teach and perform with his instrument of choice, the viola. Jane and Leonard have a strained marriage, with Leonard, in Jane's belief, not being a supportive or caring husband. Jane is writing a sort of memoir about her grandmother's experiences in the world wars while her husband is at work. Jane visits the island of Ischia to avoid the isolation she faces alone in the couple's hotel room. While out on a walk, she meets the young and outgoing nineteen-year-old Caleb, with whom she strikes up an acquaintance. The two spend the afternoon together and share a dinner later that night. Caleb and Jane run away from the restaurant without paying making Jane feel alive, before Caleb confessing to her that he paid the bill when he went to the bathroom. Caleb asks for Jane's phone number but she refuses and catches a ferry back to her hotel room.

The following day Jane and Leonard share a lunch in which further strain is shown, with Leonard not understanding why Jane has such a fascination with and envy of the life of a 'young, care-free' teenager. As she is saying this, Caleb suddenly arrives at the restaurant and sits with the couple at Jane's invitation. Leonard shows signs of suspicion of the two and promptly asks for the check. The three walk towards Leonard's work and Caleb leaves them but not before writing his address on Jane's hand despite Leonard pointing out that he has a piece of paper. Jane and Leonard say goodbye to each other and Jane walks away and runs into Caleb again. Jane asks Caleb if he is following her to which he asks whether that would be weird. The two walk together and Caleb confesses to Jane that he couldn't sleep after meeting her and actually planned to bump into her so he could see her again. The two share a passionate kiss. However Jane soon pulls away and questions Caleb's motives before leaving and telling him not to follow her. Jane goes home to have a shower but writes down Caleb's address in her notebook so she doesn't lose it when it washes off.

Jane tries to reignite the spark in her marriage and tries to initiate intimacy between the two but Leonard rebuffs her, instead concentrating on his work. Once again, Jane begins to see the cracks in her marriage and soon follows the address in her book to find Caleb. The two share a day of walking, dancing and swimming around the island before the two have sex in his home. Jane goes back to her hotel room and husband the following morning where he scolds her for allowing him to worry about her, especially when she claims she was just walking all night. Jane tells Leonard that they need to talk but he insists that he needs to go to work.

That night, when Leonard arrives home they fight and Jane confesses her affair to him. Leonard is angry at first, throwing a glass at the wall, but soon asks Jane to do what she needs to do. He also asks her to meet him at the train station at four the following day so that can depart the country together and re-patch their marriage, no guilt and no questions asked.

Jane spends the next morning with Caleb but decides to leave him and reject his offer to travel with him. Jane appears at the train station where Leonard is waiting. Leonard smiles but also points out that she is on the wrong side of the tracks and needs to cross over so they can leave together. Jane smiles back with a hint of sadness and a train comes and blocks Leonard's view of Jane. When the train departs, Jane is gone also, implying she got on the train and left both Caleb and Leonard, leaving the latter alone in the train station.

####Angel Eyes####
On a wet rainy night in Chicago, police officer Sharon Pogue is at the scene of a serious traffic accident holding the hand of one of the victims, pleading that he hold on and not give up. One year later, Sharon is frustrated with the men she dates, and has become estranged from her family for having her father arrested for beating her mother Josephine. Her father and brother, Larry, have never forgiven her, and her anger is affecting her police work.

A man known only as "Catch" wanders the streets of Chicago in a trance-like state, doing good deeds for strangers and neighbors. One day he sees Sharon at a diner and watches her from across the street, and she notices him watching her. Just then a car pulls up and blasts the diner with machine gun fire, and Sharon and her partner chase after the criminals. Sharon catches up with one criminal and in the ensuing struggle, he gets her gun and shoots her twice in the chest. Seeing that she is protected by her bulletproof vest, he prepares to shoot her in the head, but Catch jumps the man and tackles the thug. Sharon's partner arrives thereafter, knocking the gun away from the thug, saving her life. That night, Sharon and Catch meet at a tavern and have a drink. A grateful Sharon tries to learn more about Catch, but he does not talk about himself. Sharon invites him to her apartment, and after some awkward moments between the two, they share a kiss. Catch abruptly stops and leaves the apartment, leaving Sharon confused.

The next evening Sharon finds a dandelion taped to her mailbox with Catch's phone number. She calls and awkwardly invites him to breakfast at a coffee shop the next morning. When Sharon wakes up, she has second thoughts and calls Catch to cancel their breakfast date. Catch is already at the coffee shop and never gets the message. Upset at being stood up, he goes to Sharon's apartment and criticizes her for not showing up for her "appointment", and then storms out. Sharon follows him to his nearly empty apartment. Surprised at the living conditions, she demands to know more about him, but Catch refuses to reveal anything about his past. He only says that he is starting "from scratch".

Following the advice of his mother-in-law Elanora, Catch calls Sharon and apologizes, and the two continue seeing each other. They go on a lakeside picnic in a state park and share a romantic swim, after which they make passionate love on the shore. In the coming days, Catch is there to comfort her after a family confrontation. His positive influence begins to show in her police work. One night they go to a blues club, and after the band has played a number, Catch notices a trumpet, set on the bandstand. He picks up the trumpet and starts to play a soulful version of the tune "Nature Boy". As they're leaving, the owner approaches him, calling him "Steve Lambert", and asking where's he's been. Catch denies even knowing the man and walks away.

The next day, Sharon investigates the name Steven Lambert in the police files and discovers that he is the man whose hand she held at the site of a traffic accident a year earlier, and that Catch's wife and child died in the accident. She goes to the house he abandoned after the accident and learns that he was a jazz musician and that the accident occurred on his son's birthday, causing Catch to create a mental block. Wanting to help Catch heal from his emotional wounds, she tries to talk to him about the accident and takes him to the cemetery to see the graves of his family, but he gets very upset and walks away. Sharon visits Elanora who is actually Catch's former mother-in-law. Sharon is looking for some way of helping the man she loves, and Elanora encourages patience and tells Sharon that Catch will find his way in his own time.

At her parents' wedding vow renewal ceremony, Sharon tries talking to her father but he tells her that he feels like he doesn't have a daughter. As Sharon starts to leave, she stops and tells the videographer a wonderful story about her father playing with her and her brother when they were children. She is deeply moved by this memory. Her father overhears it and is also emotionally affected, but when Sharon looks at him, he turns away. Meanwhile, Catch finally goes to the cemetery and talks to his deceased wife and child, explaining how he remembers all the wonderful moments they shared. As Sharon leaves the reception, she sees Catch waiting by her car. They embrace and profess their love for each other. As they prepare to leave, Catch tells her that he'll drive.

####Angels & Insects####
William Adamson (Mark Rylance), a naturalist, returns to Victorian England, staying with his benefactor, Sir Harold Alabaster (Jeremy Kemp), a wealthy Baronet. He has lost his possessions in a shipwreck, returning from an extended expedition to the Amazon. Now dependent upon his patron, William is employed to catalog Sir Harold's specimen collection and teach his younger children the natural sciences, assisting their governess, the unassuming Matty Crompton (Kristin Scott Thomas).

William becomes enamoured of Sir Harold's eldest daughter, Eugenia (Patsy Kensit). Eugenia is softly spoken, anxious, and mourning the recent death of her fiancé. Despite his impoverishment, Eugenia proves receptive and accepts his marriage proposal. Although Sir Harold grants his approval, Eugenia's snobbish and spoilt brother, Edgar, (Douglas Henshall) dislikes William's humble origins.

Soon after the marriage, Eugenia becomes pregnant. Eugenia's behaviour alternates between coldness, locking William out of her room, and intense sexual passion. The couple has four more children. She calls the one son, 'Edgar', in the family tradition, annoying William. He spends much of his time with the Alabaster children and Matty, observing an ant colony in the forest, with a view to writing a book. Returning via the stables from an excursion, William discovers Edgar raping a teenage servant. Edgar tells William that she consented, but she is clearly terrified. William forms a bond with Matty, who encourages his scientific activities and displays a strong intelligence. The book is successfully published.

One day, William is summoned from the hunt to the house by a servant who claims Eugenia wants him. Entering the bedroom, he finds Eugenia and Edgar engaging in incestuous sex. Eugenia confesses that this has occurred since childhood and that her fiancé committed suicide in consequence. She says that when it started she was too young to understand but, after she saw herself through the eyes of her fiancé, she felt guilty. In tears, Eugenia explains that she tried to stop, but that Edgar's will was too strong. William realises that he has been used to conceal the incest and that the children (who bear no resemblance to him) are Edgar's.

Matty reveals her knowledge of the affair to William during a Scrabble-like game. Later, she explains that the servants were also aware and arranged for him to find out. Expressing frustration at her life and dependency on the Alabasters, Matty reveals that she has published her own book on the insects and has bought tickets for a ship for the Amazon. William is reluctant; despite his attraction, he feels that the rain forest is unsuitable for a woman. After she assures him of her strength and love for him, William acquiesces.

Before leaving, William meets Eugenia and tells her he intends never to return but will continue to financially support their children. He also promises to keep her secret, for fear of injuring her ailing father, and hopes she may find a way to live with her guilt. William and Matty depart in a coach for Liverpool, eager to begin their new adventure and leave the past behind.

####Ann Vickers####
After a military officer (Bruce Cabot) gets Ann Vickers (Irene Dunne) pregnant and leaves her, she and friend Malvina Wormser (Edna May Oliver) go to Havana, where she gives birth, though the child dies soon after.  Feeling conflicted and regretful, Ann devotes herself to social work, taking a job in a women's prison. However, when she tries to improve the conditions there, she loses her job. She instead writes a book about the harsh realities of the prison and begins a romance with a married judge, Barney Dolphin (Walter Huston). Though progressive in his views, Dolphin is caught taking bribes and is sentenced to prison.  Ann, once again pregnant, supports herself by writing until Dolphin is released a few years later.  Finally, Ann, Dolphin, and their child are reunited.

####Anna and the King####
Anna Leonowens (Jodie Foster), a British widow, has come to Siam with her son Louis (Tom Felton) to teach English to Crown Prince Chulalongkorn, the heir of King Mongkut (Chow Yun-fat). She is a strong-willed, intelligent, valiant and benevolent woman for her time, which pleases the King. Mongkut wants to modernize Siam, thinking this will help his country resist colonialism and protect the ancient traditions that provide Siam its identity. For this reason, he has Anna teach all of his dozens of children, born to twenty-three wives.

Initially, Mongkut and Anna clash due to cultural differences as well as their equally strong wills. He soon sees the positive effects of her teaching methods, especially her determination to treat the princes and princesses as though they were ordinary schoolchildren. Anna's abolitionist views also help to influence Chulalongkorn's views on slavery.

Mongkut and Anna discuss differences between Eastern and Western love, but he dismisses the notion that a man can be happy with only one wife. Hoping to impress Britain's ambassadors, Mongkut orders a sumptuous reception and appoints Anna to organize it. During the reception, the King spars graciously and wittily with Sir Mycroft Kincaid (Bill Stewart), of the East India Company. The Europeans express their beliefs that Siam is a superstitious, backward nation. Anna powerfully argues that this is not the case. Mongkut dances with Anna at the reception.

Siam is under siege from what appears to be a British-funded coup d'état against King Mongkut, using Burmese soldiers. Mongkut sends his brother Prince Chaofa (Kay Siu Lim) and military advisor General Alak (Randall Duk Kim) and their troops to investigate. Alak, however, betrays the prince and poisons his own soldiers, revealing he is actually the coup's leader. The king is brought the news that his brother and general are dead.

Anna grows closer to the royal children, particularly Princess Fa-Ying (Melissa Campbell), who adores the playful monkeys who live in the royal garden's trees. When Fa-Ying falls sick with cholera, Anna is summoned to her chambers to say goodbye. She gets there just as Fa-Ying dies in King Mongkut's arms, and the two mourn together. Mongkut later finds that one of the monkeys "borrowed" his glasses as his daughter (Goh Yi Wai) used to do. He believes that reincarnation will alleviate his grief, and Fa-Ying might be reborn as one of her beloved animals.

Anna also begins to educate Lady Tuptim (Bai Ling), the King's newest concubine, who was already in love with another man, Khun Phra Balat (Sean Ghazi), when she was brought to court. Mongkut is kind to her, but Tuptim yearns for her true love. After Balat becomes a Buddhist monk, Tuptim disguises herself as a monk as well so she can join his monastery and be near him. She is tracked down and put on trial, where it is revealed Balat has been viciously tortured. When Tuptim condemns the judges for their cruelty, she is caned.

Anna, unable to bear the sight, speaks out angrily in an attempt to stop the abuse and threatens to go to the king, before she is forcibly removed from the court. Her outburst prevents Mongkut from showing clemency, because he cannot be seen as beholden to her, though he feels ashamed. Tuptim and Balat are beheaded publicly.

Anna resolves to leave Siam as many others are fleeing due to the approaching Burmese army. Sir Mycroft approaches the Siamese prime minister and reveals that in an attempt to protect his interests in Siam, he's paid a small fortune to discover who is behind the attempted coup: Alak.

Mongkut's army is too far from the palace to engage the rebels, so he creates a ruse - that a white elephant has been spotted, and the court must go to see it. This allows him to flee the palace with his children and wives, and give his armies time to reach them. The prime minister convinces Anna to return and help Mongkut, since her presence in his entourage will corroborate the tale about the white elephant. Mongkut plans to take his family to a monastery where he spent part of his life. Halfway through the journey, they see Alak's army in the distance and realize they can't outrun him. Mongkut and his soldiers set explosives on a wooden bridge high above a canyon floor as Alak and his army approach. Mongkut orders his "army" to stay back and rides to the bridge with only two soldiers. Alak, at the head of his army, confronts Mongkut on the bridge.

Anna, Louis and Mongkut's wives and children create a brilliant deception from their hiding spot in the forest. Louis uses his horn to replicate the sound of a bugle charge, as the others "attack" the area with harmless fireworks. The Burmese, believing the King has brought British soldiers, panic and retreat. Alak's attempt to recall and regroup his troops fails. Alak stands alone, but Mongkut refuses to kill him, saying that Alak will have to live with his shame. As Mongkut turns to ride back to Siam, Alak grabs his gun and aims at his back, but one of Mongkut's guards detonates the explosives, blowing the bridge and Alak to pieces.

The court returns to Bangkok, where Anna tearfully prepares to leave Siam for good. Mongkut shares one last dance with her, marveling that he now understands how a man could be content with only one woman. A voice-over tells viewers that Chulalongkorn became king after his father's death, abolishing slavery and instituting religious freedom with his father's 'vision' assisting him.

####Anna Christie####
Chris Christofferson (George F. Marion), the alcoholic skipper of a coal barge in New York, receives a letter from his estranged twenty-year-old daughter Anna "Christie" Christofferson (Greta Garbo), telling him that she'll be leaving Minnesota to stay with him. Chris left Anna to be raised by relatives on a St. Paul farm 15 years before, and hasn't seen her since.

Anna arrives an emotionally wounded woman with a dishonorable, hidden past: she has worked in a brothel for two years. One night, Chris rescues Matt (Charles Bickford) and two other displaced sailors from the sea. Anna and Matt soon fall in love and Anna has the best days of her life. But when Matt proposes to her, she is reluctant and haunted by her recent past. Matt insists and compels Anna to tell him the truth. She opens her heart to Matt and her father, disclosing her dark secrets.

####Anna Karenina####
Anna Karenina (Greta Garbo) is the wife of Czarist official Karenin (Basil Rathbone). While she tries to persuade her brother Stiva (Reginald Owen) from a life of debauchery, she becomes infatuated with dashing military officer Count Vronsky (Fredric March). This indiscreet liaison ruins her marriage and position in 19th century Russian society; she is even prohibited from seeing her own son Sergei (Freddie Bartholomew), with eventual dire results.

####Anna Karenina####
Anna Karenina (lang-ru|«Анна Каренина»; IPA-ru|ˈanːə kɐˈrʲenʲɪnə) leaves her cold husband for the dashing Count Vronsky in 19th-century Russia.  An unfortunate series of events leaves her hopelessly depressed.

####Anna Karenina####
In the Russian Empire in 1874, Princess Darya, nicknamed "Dolly", banishes her unfaithful husband Prince Stephan "Stiva" Oblonsky. Stiva's sister, Anna Karenina, a socialite living in Saint Petersburg with her older husband Count Alexei Karenin, and son Seryozha, travels to Moscow to persuade Dolly to forgive her brother.

Stiva meets old friend Konstantin "Kostya" Levin, a landowning aristocrat despised by Moscow's elite for preferring the countryside to city life. Levin says he loves Stiva's sister-in-law, Princess Kitty, and Stiva encourages him to propose. Kitty declines as she hopes to marry Count Alexei Vronsky, a wealthy officer. Levin meets his older brother Nikolai, who has renounced his inheritance and lives as man and wife with Masha, a prostitute. Nikolai suggests that Levin should marry a peasant. On the train, Anna meets Vronsky's mother, Countess Vronskaya, isolated by her own infidelities. Anna meets Vronsky and they are instantly attracted to each other. Anna eventually convinces Dolly to take Stiva back. At a ball, Kitty dances once with Vronsky, but throughout the evening he prefers Anna, upsetting Kitty. Vronsky tells Anna he must be wherever she goes.

Back in Saint Petersburg, Vronsky and Anna soon begin to stir gossip. Despite the fact that he has a promotion awaiting him in Tashkent, he refuses it and Anna agrees that she does not want him to leave. They later meet and make love.

Stiva informs Levin that Kitty and Vronsky will not be married. Levin focuses on country life and contemplates marrying a peasant's daughter.

Anna and Seryozha go to the Karenin estate outside Saint Petersburg. Anna visits Vronsky and reveals her pregnancy, and he wants her to leave Karenin. Anna suggests that Karenin come to the horse races but betrays her feelings when Vronsky's horse falls. Afterwards, Anna admits to her husband she is Vronsky's mistress and Karenin says she must renounce him. Levin realises he still loves Kitty. Months later, Anna receives Vronsky. He tells her that his military duties have delayed his visit. Karenin discovers Vronsky visited and steals his letters in order to give himself grounds for a divorce.

Karenin visits Stiva and Dolly to say he is divorcing Anna. They beg him to forgive her, but he refuses. Levin and Kitty, having reunited, announce their love and marry. Anna goes into premature labour and sends for Vronsky, although she later says he could never be the man Karenin is. Karenin returns, believing Anna is dying and forgives her. Anna survives and decides to stay with her husband.

Vronsky persuades Anna to change her mind and they leave for Italy with their daughter, Anya.

Levin and Kitty return to his estate, where a sickly Nikolai lives with Masha in a storeroom. Levin tells Kitty he will send Masha away so Kitty does not have to meet her, but Kitty ignores societal norms to help Masha nurse Nikolai. Levin's love for Kitty grows.

Anna returns to Saint Petersburg for Seryozha's birthday, but Karenin dismisses her. Anna begins to suspect Vronsky of infidelity. She attends the opera with Princess Myagkaya, an outspoken socialite, but the rest of the audience shun her. Humiliated, Anna retains her poise, only to break down at her hotel. She uses morphine to sleep.

Dolly tells her that Kitty is in Moscow to give birth. Dolly says Stiva's behaviour is unchanged, but she has come to accept and love him.

Vronsky informs Anna he must meet his mother for business. Anna becomes upset when Princess Sorokina brings Vronsky back to his home, as she believes Countess Vronskaya wants Vronsky to marry her. Anna returns to Vronsky's estate. On the train, she imagines Vronsky and Princess Sorokina making love and laughing at her. Arriving at Moscow, Anna says to herself, "Oh God. Forgive me," and jumps under a train. The scene flashes to a shocked Vronsky.

Levin returns home from work to find Kitty bathing their child. Stiva and his family eat with Levin and Kitty. Karenin, retired, is seen at his estate, with Seryozha and Anya playing.

####Anne of Little Smoky####
Set in the Kentucky mountains. The Brockton family consider Little Smoky to be their mountain, but the government declares it to be a forest and game preserve. Forest ranger Bob Hayne is in love with Anne Brockton, but when he catches her father, Ed, poaching game he tries to arrest him. The two men fight, and Brockton is believed to have died. When bloodhounds are set on Bob’s trail Anne dresses in some of his clothing in an attempt to confuse the hounds following his scent. Anne finds her father alive in the forest ranger’s cabin.

Meanwhile Gita, a gypsy girl, is attacked by a renegade Indian. Anne’s brother Tom, who suffered shell-shock during the first World War, rescues Gita. The incident brings Tom back to his senses.

Ed Brockton becomes friends with Bob, and allows him to court Anne. Tom and Gita fall in love, and both couples look forward to a happy future.

####Another Day####
Kate has been working a job she doesn't like and saving up to go to medical school. She discovers she's pregnant. Her boyfriend is of good conduct, but she and her boyfriend Paul disagree with her decision not to settle down. She drives all day to David's place, her best friend since childhood. She learns the next day that Paul has died in a factory fire. She reaches the factory. It appears as though Paul ought not have been at the factory and that his death appears to be suicide. Years later Kate has moved on with her life and her new boyfriend is David. She has chosen to raise the child who has grown to be a four-year-old whom she has named Meghan after her mother. David talks about conversations he's had with her that Kate doesn't remember. Kate gets admission to an accounting school.  David asks her why she's settled for accounting when she wanted to go to medical school. They have a minor argument in which she accuses David of not doing much with his life either. Meghan plays too close to the river and is swept away by the river current.  David jumps into the gushing current to save her. Kate follows and jumps in too. Kate gets separated.

Kate is then swept ashore and saved by the river patrol police. She awakens to discover that she has gone back in time to before Paul's accident. She slowly gets used to the time when David is still her friend and Paul is her boyfriend. She extracts a promise from Paul to never go near the factory and to marry her soon. Paul leaves early the next morning in his river boat to go to his retreat to have time to himself to think it over. David and Kate get worried and go off in search of him. They do not find him, but during the excursion she learns that David wanted to make it big by selling art in the big city. She discovers David has feelings for her when he says he's not going to miss anything if he dies, but he's terrified of what he misses if he lives. On the way she asks to be dropped at the factory. David returns home, and tells a frantic Paul she's at the factory. Paul goes to get her. At the factory Kate discovers the fire was started by an acquaintance who works for security at the factory on account of negligence by lighting a cigarette on premises. She gets hurt as the fire intensifies with explosions. Paul arrives, however he gets fatally hurt by shrapnel as more blasts occur. Kate tries to drag Paul, but eventually has to save her own life. She sees her other self arrive from the factory windows. Her memory fades and the next thing she knows is that she's in the water.

Kate is again swept ashore. The river patrol police find her. She awakens and knows that she is back in her own time and understands all. David confirms that Meghan is safe. She confronts the acquaintance, and he asks her why she didn't tell anyone. Kate has now learned that one cannot change the past but one can decide how to live for the future and moves on to living happy with David and Meghan.

####Another Language####
A newlywed discovers that she and her husband's snobby family speak different languages:  A frustrated Stella finds a sympathetic ear in Victor's nephew, Jerry.

####Antwone Fisher####
Antwone "Fish" Fisher is a temperamental young man from Cleveland, Ohio with a violent history who is serving in the U.S. Navy. His father was killed before he was born and his teenage mother, Eva Mae Fisher, ended up arrested soon after and put in jail, where she gave birth to him. He was then placed in an orphanage until she was released and could claim him. Since she had not yet claimed him, at the age of two Antwone was placed in a foster home run by a couple, Mr. and Mrs. Tate. Antwone suffers years of physical and emotional abuse at Mrs. Tate's hands and is molested by her adult niece Nadine. He finally leaves the home at age 14. After living out on the streets for the next few years, he decides to join the U.S. Navy to make something out of his life.

The rough life he had as a child has caused him to have a violent temper; after getting into a fight with a fellow sailor, Antwone is sentenced at a captain's mast to be demoted, fined, and restricted to the ship for 45 days. His commanding officer also orders him to go to psychiatric treatment. Antwone goes in to meet Dr. Jerome Davenport, who attempts to get him to open up. Antwone is at first extremely resistant, but gradually comes to trust Davenport and opens up about his traumatic childhood. Meanwhile, Antwone develops feelings for fellow Navy sailor Cheryl. With Antwone still getting into altercations, Davenport tries to explore his feelings for Cheryl in order to channel Antwone's feelings into something positive. Antwone finally goes on a date with Cheryl and establishes a relationship with her.

While on leave in Mexico, Antwone gets into a fight with a sailor who insinuates that he is gay and is thrown into jail. Davenport meets him in jail, where Antwone confides the sexual abuse he suffered as a child. Antwone eventually reveals to Cheryl that he sees a psychiatrist.

At a Thanksgiving dinner, Davenport advises Antwone to find his real family. Antwone refuses, but thanks Davenport before inviting him to a graduation ceremony. Following the graduation ceremony, Davenport tells Antwone that he's ending the sessions and feels Antwone needs to progress on his own. Antwone breaks down, feeling everyone has abandoned him. He reveals his best friend Jesse was killed while attempting a robbery, and that he resents Jesse for leaving him behind. Realizing he needs to find his parents to find closure, Antwone asks Cheryl to go with him to Cleveland. After a dead end at social services, Antwone decides to return to the Tate household. There he confronts Nadine and Mrs. Tate about their abuse. Mrs. Tate ultimately reveals Antwone's father's name: Edward Elkins.

After looking through multiple telephone books, Antwone comes into contact with his aunt Annette and visits her. Antwone learns his mother lives nearby and goes to visit her. Antwone finds closure, forgives her, and leaves. When he returns to the Elkins household, he finds a feast prepared for him and finds the family he lost.

Antwone visits Davenport and thanks him for everything. Davenport then replies that it is he who should be thanking Antwone. Davenport confesses that he had been failing to deal with his own problems, and that treating Antwone prompted him to finally confront his demons. The film draws to a close as Davenport and Antwone go to eat.

####April Showers####
Danny O'Rourke is the son of a police officer who was killed in the line of duty. Eager to join the police force, Danny fails his exams. The failure causes him to neglect his sweetheart Maggie, whose father is a police lieutenant. His attentions turn instead towards society girl Miriam Welton. When Danny’s sister, Shannon, is arrested for shoplifting, Danny turns to boxing to save her. He works his way towards the championship but discovers the final bought has been rigged. Danny fights anyhow and he is beaten, but it is discovered that a mistake had been made on his exams and he actually was eligible to join the police force after all.

####Arabian Love####
Shortly after marrying a man, Nadine Fortier travels through the desert to a distant city to visit her dying mother. On her way, she is kidnapped by a group of bandits, who use her when gambling. Nadine eventually becomes the property of Norman Stone, an American criminal who is on the run from the police. Norman helps her to safety and they plan on crossing ways. Nadine, however, contacts him to find her husband's murderer.

Themar, the daughter of a sheik, is jealous of Norman's interest in Nadine and she tells Nadine that Norman is responsible for her father's death. Upon confronting him, Norman admits that her husband had several clandestine meetings with his sister and that he was accidentally shot to death in his presence. Although she is initially mad, their love for each other proves to be more powerful. They eventually become a couple and leave the country for America.

####Arch of Triumph####
Pre-World War II Paris is crowded with illegal refugees, trying to evade deportation. One of them is Dr. Ravic, who practices medicine illegally under a false name, helping other refugees. He saves Joan Madou from committing suicide after the sudden death of her lover. They become involved, but he is deported and she becomes the mistress of Alex, a very wealthy man. Ravic eventually returns, still seeking revenge against the Nazi officer, von Haake, who tortured Ravic's  beloved to death. Von Haake is in Paris, in civilian dress, for some unknown, sinister purpose.

On September 1, 1939, Germany invades Poland. Two days later, Britain and France declare war on Germany. Ravic kills von Haake, but so quickly that the villain does not know why he is dying. Meanwhile, Joan's jealous lover shoots her, then comes to Ravic for help. The bullet has injured her spine. Paralyzed, except for her left arm, Ravic operates on her in a vain attempt to save her but she is left paralyzed. Dying, she begs him to end her suffering. He comforts her and  they speak of their love while she dies. He goes home to find that the authorities are checking papers at the hotel. He waits in line with his friend, Boris, who predicts a stay in a concentration camp. Ravic believes that they will be useful, now that war is here. Boris bids him an affectionate farewell, promising to meet at Fouquet's after the war. The last shot of the film is through the Arc de Triomphe.

####Are These Our Parents####
A mother's preference for partying, boozing, and running around with an assortment of sleazy characters results in her neglecting her nubile teenage daughter, who subsequently finds herself mixed up with teenage boys, nightclub owners, and murder.

####Argentine Love####
As described in a review in a film magazine, during a two year absence in the United States, the guardians of Consuelo Garcia (Daniels) arrange her marriage to Juan Martin (Cortez), who lives in the same hometown in Argentina. However, she is in love with the American Philip Sears (Rennie), who is coming to her country to build a bridge, so she turns Juan down. Juan is furious and vows to kill anyone who comes between them, and does kill Rafael (Gonzales), the son of Senator Cornejo (Majeroni), after he sees him flirting with Consuelo. Juan sends a warning to Philip, who comes immediately. In the meantime, the populace vent their spite on Consuelo, beating her while she is tied to the end of a cart. Philip rescues her. To save his life, she pretends love for Juan, and Philip puts on Juan's cloak and hat to aid their escape. Consuelo tells Juan that she will marry him, but that she does not love him. Juan returns to the house and, saying that an Argentine is not to be outdone in gallantry by an American, gives himself up to the crowd and is shot by the murdered young man's father. Philip and Consuelo then find their path to happiness unobstructed.

####Army Surgeon####
The film starts with an elderly Dr. Elizabeth Ainsley (Jane Wyatt) in her cabin on a military boat.  While going through an old box she comes across an old photo of her and two men dated 1917.  The scene then flashes back to her getting off a boat in France where we find that she has lied about her occupation so that she can be assigned as a nurse to a WWI French army hospital to work alongside Capt. James 'Jim' Mason (James Ellison).

When Dr. Ainsley arrives she finds that Dr. Mason does not understand why they sent her there because he had asked for a male nurse. She replies that it is routine and says that she is trained in shrapnel and the brain. When some wounded men come in Dr. Mason tells her to get ready and he also says he will find out if she knows anything or not. Several scenes show them working well together with her still posing as a nurse. Dr. Mason is disappointed that they are not able to save more lives and she reassures him that they are doing their best and it is not his fault.  That night she is having a nightmare and he wakes her up and also reveals that he knows she is a doctor but will not report her.

Dr. Mason wants to establish a hospital at the front lines but Col. John Wishart (George Cleveland) won't let him due to Army regulations. Doctor Ainsley convinces him to let Dr. Mason establish a hospital but not to let Dr. Mason know they have talked.

Dr. Mason tells them to pack their belongings because he reassigned to the front lines. When they get there they start to get more victims then they can handle. One day Dr. Mason and Dr. Ainsley are working in the vegetable garden when enemy planes fly over but an American plane comes out of nowhere and starts to shoot them down. But before he can get them all he is shot down. Dr. Ainsley and Dr. Mason run to his aid and get him out of the plane alive at which time Dr. Ainsley recognizes him as Lt. Philip 'Phil' Harvey (Kent Taylor) who she had a previous relationship. Dr. Ainsley  tells Dr. Mason  that Lt. Harvey is nothing to her and there is nothing between them. Dr. Drake (Walter Reed) tells Dr.Mason he is jealous.  Lt. Harvey tries to revive their romance and she discourages them. While he is kissing her against her will Dr. Mason walks in on them and tells Lt. Harvey he is recommending that he is ready to return to active duty.

At Christmas they find the best tree they can find and decorate it. The patients and staff give Dr Ainsley a homemade present for their gratitude and as she is thanking them when a man walks in and says special delivery by airplane for Miss Ainsley and it is flowers that Lt. Harvey dropped for her.  This irritates Dr. Mason and she changes the subject by playing Christmas music and they exchange a loving look.  The festivities are interrupted by an influx of casualties and Dr. Drake is killed.

One day on her way to take papers to Col. John Wishart she lets it slip that she had spoken to him about being reassigned to the front and Dr. Mason is not happy about it. On her way out a Major orders her to take a leave and she runs into Lt. Harvey and they decide to go to lunch. Lt. Harvey gets to the cafe first and findsd Dr. Mason playing the piano. Lt. Harvey tells him to get out and Dr.Mason tells Harvey that if he wants to fight there is an alley out back. Harvey tells Dr. Mason that if he wins he can have Miss Ainsley but Dr. Mason says Ainsley means nothing to him and he is just fighting a war. Dr. Ainsley overhears and says, "Never mind, Phil, it is not fair to take up any more of the Captain's time". They go on a hayride and Dr. Ainsley tells Lt. Harvey she is not interested in reviving their romance. They are then contacted that they need to get back to the front.

Once there, Dr. Mason tells them they are being evacuated and tells Dr. Ainsley to leave with the rest of them but she refuses. He picks her up to carry her out to a car when a hill of dirt caves in trapping them and Lt. Harvey along with several patients. Mason and Harvey eventually dig their way out only to find that they are behind enemy lines. They flip a coin to see who will go for help and  Dr. Mason wins only to get shot and brought back into the hut. Their aide, Brooklyn (James Burke) shows up and tells them that the army has driven the enemy back.  While in the hospital, Dr. Mason, Dr. Ainsley, and Lt. Harvey all hold hands.

Flash back to the present and Dr. Mason walks into the cabin indicating that they are married and he sees her holding a picture of the three of them. He says that the picture reminds him of a letter he forgot about that is from Harvey. She opens it and reads from Harvey: "Now don't tell me I have gotta go through all that again." and in the note it says that he is now married.

####The Arnelo Affair####
A lawyer's wife, Anne Parkson (Frances Gifford) is bored and neglected. She begins meeting with one of her husband's clients, nightclub owner Tony Arnelo (John Hodiak), for interior design work.  There develops an awareness between them that an affair is a possibility. One afternoon she arrives at Tony's, and soon after his girlfriend shows up. The girlfriend is upset by Anne being there and starts making a fuss. Tony arrives, hits his girlfriend, and Parkson runs out.

Police find the girlfriend murdered, Anne's unique compact near the body. Tony planted the compact, in order to blackmail and implicate Anne in the killing.  He is in love with Anne and attempts to force her into leaving her husband. A homicide detective soon figures out the facts and confronts Tony. When Tony is made to realize that his lies and blackmail will destroy innocent Anne's place in society, he escapes the detective's custody in order to commit "suicide by cop".

####As Man Desires####
As described in a review in a film magazine, Major John Craig (Sills) knocks out Colonel Carringford (Nicholson) when he discovers Gloria Gordon (Clifford), his fiancée, has been untrue. Carringford is then murdered by a servant and because Evelyn Beaudine (Theby), a married woman of unsavory reputation, accuses him of the crime, Craig is forced to flee from his British Army post in India. Craig procures a fishing smack and amasses wealth from working pearl beds in the South Seas. He tenders Gorilla Bagsley (Kennedy), a poacher a beating when he finds him annoying Pandora (Dana). She now feels that Craig is "her man" and, to spite the memory of the other woman, he marries her. A seaman identifies Craig and notifies the British government. Gloria comes with the representative who tells Craig that Gloria had sacrificed her own reputation to prove his innocence. Gorilla, intending to kill Craig, levels a gun towards his back but Pandora jumps in the way as it is fired. Craig and Gloria are thus united.

####Ask the Dust####
The story is set during the Great Depression, specifically around the time of the 1933 Long Beach earthquake.

Camilla (Salma Hayek) is a fiery, beautiful Mexican café waitress who aspires to make something of herself and give her and her future children a place and chance in the world. Arturo (Colin Farrell) is a struggling writer who comes to Bunker Hill, Los Angeles to start his writing career. Though he falls in love with Camilla, he does not marry her. Later, Camilla is infected by tuberculosis and leaves Arturo without informing him. When Arturo finds her, she is about to die and he promises to marry her, but Camilla dies and Arturo writes a novel dedicated to Camilla. Arturo writes a dedication in one of his books to her and throws it into the sand.

####At First Sight####
Amy Benic (Mira Sorvino) takes a vacation at a spa outside New York City. Virgil Adamson (Val Kilmer) is a masseur at the spa and gives Amy a massage. Amy inexplicably cries and Virgil comforts her. While complimenting Virgil on the massage, Amy realizes that Virgil is blind. Virgil asks her out, and the two eventually begin a relationship.

Virgil lives alone, though his over-protective sister Jennie (Kelly McGillis) lives next door and takes care of him. Virgil reveals that he went blind when he was three and that the last thing he saw was something fluffy. While researching Virgil's condition, Amy learns of Doctor Charles Aaron, a specialist in eye treatment who suggests to Virgil that, with surgery, he could restore his sight. Virgil angrily refuses. Jennie reveals that their father left the family after putting Virgil through several kinds of treatments in order to restore his sight.

Virgil eventually decides he will give the operation a try. It is a success, but after Virgil regains sight, he becomes confused and disoriented, unable to perceive light and distance. Dr. Aaron suggests that he should visit Phil Webster (Nathan Lane), a visual physiotherapist. Webster in turn suggests that Virgil needs to learn everything from scratch himself, through experience.

Virgil and Amy begin living in New York City. The pair begin drifting apart, as Virgil finds it hard to decipher the look on Amy's face at times. Amy finds herself constantly having to explain basic things to Virgil. While at a party, Virgil walks into a glass pane due to his poor perception.

Virgil's father sees him on television and arranges a reunion; Virgil goes to his father's workplace, but decides at the last minute that he cannot face him yet.

On one of the regular visits with Webster, they engage in a deep conversation, where Webster notes that instead of just "seeing", Virgil should "look"; there are a lot of things that sight alone cannot solve. Virgil confesses that he and Amy are drifting apart, but insists that Amy is the most important thing in his life.

Upon returning from a work trip to Atlanta, where she and her ex-husband shared a sensual moment, Amy decides to save the relationship. She finds Virgil in a park looking for "the horizon" in the city.

Virgil's sight begins deteriorating. After consulting with Dr. Aaron, Virgil realizes that he is losing his sight yet again. He decides to look for his father. Virgil reveals to him that he is going blind again, and asks him why he left. His father tells him that he felt he was a failure when he did not find a way to help his son regain sight. Virgil states that he should not have left because his mother and sister suffered greatly after his father walked away.

Virgil looks for Amy, who tells him about her plans to travel with him to places like Egypt and Europe. Withholding the fact that he is again going blind, Virgil tells her there is one thing he really wants to see, and brings her to a New York Rangers game.

At the game, Virgil realizes that the "fluffy cloud" he last remembers seeing was cotton candy. He suffers a lengthened vision blackout and admits to Amy that he is going blind, which Amy refuses to accept. Back home, Virgil and Amy argue. He asks if she wants to spend her life with him if he is going to be blind forever. Amy hesitates, and Virgil decides to return home. Virgil eases back into his old way of life. While losing his sight, Virgil decides to look at as many things as possible, going through magazines and pictorial books in the library. He stays up to watch the sunset, seeing the horizon for the first and last time.

After he has been blind again for some time, Virgil is at a park with a guide dog. Amy approaches and they reconnect. Amy apologizes to Virgil for trying to change him and for moving too fast. She asks if he wants to take a walk and "see what they see". They leave the park together.

####At the Stage Door####
Mary Matthews is the elder sister of Helen, who is the favorite of their widowed mother. Growing up, she continually has to accede to Helen's wants and preferences. However, when the selfish Helen steals Mary's fiancé, Mary leaves home to try and make a life in New York City. She gets a part as a chorus girl in a Broadway production, but refuses to give in to the wanton lifestyle so prevalent among the other dancers. One night she is being pursued by the stage manager to join the gang in going out to one of their parties, but she keeps refusing. The stage manager becomes more and more aggressive, until he is on the verge of forcing her to accompany him. Mary is saved by the intervention of Philip Pierce, the heir of a socially prominent family, who punches out the stage manager.

The two become friends, and there is a growing attraction. However, at the insistence of his friends, who feel that "all chorus girls are alike", Philip makes a dishonorable proposition to her. Afterwards he realizes his mistake and apologizes, and the two reignite their mutual attraction. He eventually proposes to her, and tells her that the following evening he will meet her and present her with an engagement ring.

However, he fails to show up at the rendezvous, and in the papers the next morning there is an announcement of his engagement to a wealthy socialite. Mary is crushed. That night, despondent over being let down once again, she is on the verge of giving in and accompanying "the gang" on one of their licentious evenings out.  Philip arrives just in time to prevent her from making a mistake.  He explains that he missed the rendezvous because he indeed went to see his fiancée, who had arrived home unexpectedly from Europe. But he went to see her to break off their engagement, so that he could marry Mary. Unfortunately, Philip's mother jumped the gun on the wedding announcement. The two are reconciled and are married.

####Aurora Borealis####
Duncan is an unemployed youth, trying to cope with the death of his father ten years ago. The film is set in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Duncan's grandparents, Ronald and Ruth move into an apartment with a very nice view. Ron claims that he has seen the Northern Lights "aka" Aurora Borealis from the balcony. Ron is fast deteriorating with Alzheimer's disease. Kate is the home assistant of Ron and Ruth.

In order to be close to his grandparents, Duncan finds a job as a handyman at the building where they are staying. There he meets Kate and the two quickly fall in love. Meanwhile, Duncan takes care of Ron and helps out Ron in coping with his condition.

Duncan does not want to leave the town he grew up in. He is not able to free himself from his fears of the past and his sorrow of his father's death. Ron nudges him to do something with his life. He tells Kate that Duncan needs someone who can push him to action. Kate too suggests that Duncan move on with his life.

Kate announces that she has chosen to move to San Diego. This hurts Duncan, but he is still not ready to leave.

Ron wants to end his life and misery. He asks Duncan to buy him some shells for his shotgun. In a moment of despair, Duncan loads the shotgun and gives it to Ron, but he is not able to position the gun so that he can pull the trigger with his toe. The gun goes off and Duncan runs inside. Ron follows but has a heart attack and dies.

Kate leaves for San Diego and Duncan says his goodbyes. On reaching her new place, she sees Duncan at the doorstep, ready to give his life a fresh start.

####Autumn in New York####
Long plot|section|date=July 2020
Will Keane (Richard Gere) is a successful, late-middle-aged (he insists he is 48; Charlotte says he is 49; actor Gere was actually 50 during filming) restaurateur, womanizer and recently featured in a "New York" magazine cover story. Charlotte Fielding (Winona Ryder), a free-spirited young lady, celebrates her 22nd birthday in his upscale restaurant, and he immediately notices her. Her grandmother, who knows him well, introduces them. Will admires the hats that she made for her group of celebratory friends, and learns that Charlotte is the daughter of Katy, one of his former girlfriends, who died in an automobile accident shortly after Charlotte's birth.

The next day, Will calls and asks Charlotte to make a hat for his date for an upcoming benefit dinner. When she delivers the hat to his apartment a few days later, he invites her to accompany him to the formal benefit under the guise that he had been stood up. There they get to know each other and later end up back at his apartment where they have sex. The next morning, while having breakfast on his terrace, Will explains that their relationship has no future. She acknowledges this, revealing she is dying from a heart condition.

The next day, they walk through the fall foliage in Central Park, and Charlotte recites lines from the poem "God's World". As they talk, she takes his watch from him, saying she'll return it when he forgets she has it. At his restaurant, they prepare a meal together for his staff, and he begins to fall in love. She has an episode of severe chest pain; Will rushes her to the hospital. The doctor explains that her neuroblastoma, a rare illness in adults, has produced a tumor near her heart and she has perhaps a year to live. Asking him why his deep interest in food, Will responds, "Food is the only beautiful thing that truly nourishes."

At a Halloween party, Charlotte, dressed as Emily Dickinson, entertains children by reciting "Two Butterflies"#tag:ref|"Two Butterflies" by Emily Dickinson|group=Note Meanwhile, Will meets an ex (Jill Hennessy) and they end up on the roof having sex. Later, Charlotte confronts him and breaks off their relationship, which deeply affects them both.

Meanwhile, Will receives a letter from Lisa Tyler (Vera Farmiga), an illegitimate daughter that he has never met. He goes to her workplace (a museum), recognizes her from an old photo, but can't approach her. A few nights later he arrives home, finds her in the lobby and they talk for the first time. Married and pregnant, she has become sentimental about parenthood, wanting to meet her own father. She's had a dream that he's been trying to find her all these years to apologize for abandoning her. Will says quietly, "Yes I am (sorry)."

The next night, Charlotte returns home to find Will asleep in a chair. Angry at first, she tells him to leave, but he pleads for another chance. She cries as he holds her in his arms. In the morning, Charlotte recites to him from "Midnight"#tag:ref|"Midnight" by Dorothy Parker|group=Note Later, while skating at Rockefeller Center, she suddenly collapses. At the hospital, they are told the tumor has grown and she's given only a few weeks left.

In the next days, Will searches for a specialist to perform the complicated surgery to save her. Asking his daughter for help, she finds a specialist who agrees to perform the surgery when the time comes. On Christmas morning, Charlotte wakes up and hears Will decorating. As she prepares to bring him his Christmas gift, she collapses. Rushed to the hospital, the surgeon is called. and Will, at her side, whispers to her lines from "To a young poet"#tag:ref|"To A Young Poet" by Edna St. Vincent Millay|group=Note before she is taken to the operating room.

Will, friends, Lisa, and Charlotte's grandmother wait during the long hours of surgery. Finally, the specialist emerges, and as he approaches it is clear that he could not save her. Back at his apartment, Will finds Charlotte's gift to him on the floor – a small box with the hat stem she designed for him. Opening it, he finds his watch she took on their first date. He stands at his window weeping, holding the box closely to his chest.

The following summer on a small boat on Central Park Lake, Will is holding his newborn grandson in his arms as his daughter Lisa looks on lovingly. Will notices a swan, and then a reflection in the water of a young woman walking over the bridge. The three drift peacefully on the lake.

####Ava's Impossible Things####
Ava and her mother Faye both have a pernicious disease that will one day take their lives. They are also mutually joined together by an unconditional love for one another, a passion for the arts, and a belief that magic does exist. Ava moved back into her mother's house three years ago to care for her, and ever since then, she has witnessed the deterioration of her mother's health and all she can really do is try to keep her mother from becoming depressed and devitalized. But one day, Faye makes a shocking announcement that propels Ava into a tailspin. When rare guests start to arrive and unexpected events start to happen, Ava is unable to deal with reality. She cries herself to sleep in her mother's arms and escapes to a dream world filled with old friends and long forgotten desires.

####Back Street####
Wealthy department-store heir Paul Saxon has a romantic fling with a Nebraska dress-shop owner, Rae Smith, who breaks it off when she discovers he is married.

Rae moves to New York to become a fashion designer, then on to Rome to become the famed Dalian's partner in a salon. Paul continues to woo her, explaining that his alcoholic wife Liz won't grant him a divorce and is unstable, having tried to commit suicide.

Her resistance lowered, Rae becomes the lover of Paul, meeting secretly with him at a house near Paris that he buys. Paul's son learns of the affair and demands that Rae stop seeing his father. Liz makes a public scene humiliating Rae at a charity fashion show featuring her designs, purchasing the closing creation, a wedding gown, for $10,000.

As a drunken Liz leaves the house to attend a party, Paul confronts her.  He gets into the car with her, and as the two argue they fight over the keys in the ignition.  The car crashes instantly killing Liz and leaving Paul critically paralyzed in the hospital.  Paul dies from his injuries, but not before insisting his son call Rae so he can tell her he loves her.  Rae, Paul Jr. and his sister Caroline are left alone with their grief.

The last scene shows her sitting by the window of the home he bought for her.  She was looking at his picture and a knock came on the door.  It was Paul's son with his little sister and the movie ended with Rae with her arms around them.

####Bad for Each Other####
Army colonel and doctor Tom Owen (Charlton Heston) returns home to Coalville, Pennsylvania, on leave. He learns from wealthy mine owner Dan Reasonover that his brother Floyd, a mine safety engineer, has been killed in an explosion. He further discovers that Floyd had betrayed Dan's trust by purchasing substandard equipment and taking kickbacks. Tom discovers that Floyd was also heavily in debt at the time. Tom wants to pay Dan back, but Dan declines his offer.

Dan's daughter, the twice-divorced socialite Helen Curtis (Lizabeth Scott), meets Tom at a party and asks him for a date. She arranges for him to meet Dr. Homer Gleeson (Lester Matthews), who runs a fancy Pittsburgh clinic catering to wealthy women suffering from minor ailments (some of which are plainly imaginary). Gleeson informs Tom that his former associate has quit to open his own practice, so he offers Tom the vacancy. Knowing that Tom has vowed to pay his late brother's debts, Helen talks him into accepting. Tom appears reluctant at first but eventually turns down the security his army career offers and accepts Gleeson's job. This disappoints Tom's mother who had hoped he would return to Coalville where he could do some genuine good. Tom informs her that he's doing this for the money.

As a nurse to assist him, Tom hires Joan Lasher (Dianne Foster), an attractive and idealistic young woman who plans to become a doctor herself. Meanwhile Tom and Helen begin dating. Tom proposes marriage and Helen accepts. Dan attempts to intervene and dissuade Tom from proceeding with the marriage. He warns Tom that Helen's wealth poisoned her first two marriages, but Tom remains adamant that this won't happen. Lasher becomes disappointed that Tom treats wealthy society patients for minor ailments when he could be doing more good elsewhere. Dr. Jim Crowley (Arthur Franz), a former sergeant in Tom's squad approaches Tom for help. He's trying to secure a position as a doctor. Tom half-heartedly offers to help Jim who goes to leave. On the way out he bumps into Joan who informs him that Tom is a good doctor and wouldn't have offered unless he meant to follow through. Jim explains that he only returned to the medical field after witnessing Tom in action in the war. Tom had inspired him to give medicine another chance and to treat the truly needy.

Joan confronts Tom and explains Jim's inspirational story and Tom agrees to sends Jim to see Dr. Lester Scobee (Rhys Williams, who cares for the miners of Coalville and their families. Jim is hired and starts to see more and more cases of men from the mine developing lung conditions. He approaches Tom with some X-rays. Before Tom can review the X-rays, he gets a call from Helen who is with her aunt who has become ill. Tom rushes out and after examining Helen's rich and influential aunt, Mrs. Roger Nelson (Marjorie Rambeau), discovers that she is extremely ill and in dire need of emergency surgery. Mrs Nelson insists on not proceeding until she sees her personal physician Dr Gleeson. Tom explains to Gleeson that the surgery is required and Gleeson admits that he is not equipped to perform surgery and that he actually hasn't performed any surgery in over 10 years. Instead, his former partner had been the surgeon. Tom performs the surgery successfully saving Mrs Nelson and Gleeson urges Tom to allow him to take credit. Later Joan upbraids Tom for his unethical behavior and quits the surgery.

Gleeson decides to charge Mrs. Nelson an exorbitant fee, which he splits with Tom. Mrs. Nelson later learns that it was Tom who performed her operation and questions his ethics. Before Tom can defend himself, he is called away to help at a mine explosion at Coalville. Tom enters the mine and joins Jim treating and rescuing miners far underground. They rescue the miners, but Jim is fatally injured. Tom tells Helen he is quitting the Pittsburgh clinic to work in Coalville. Helen tells him she cannot live there, so they reluctantly part. Tom arrives at his new office to find Joan already at work.

####Band of Angels####
Amantha Starr (Yvonne De Carlo) is the privileged daughter of a Kentucky plantation owner. However, after he dies, a shocking secret is revealed: Unbeknownst to Amantha, her mother had been one of her father's black slaves. Legally now property, she is taken by a slave trader to New Orleans to be sold. On the riverboat ride there, he makes it clear that he intends to rape her, but desists when she tries to hang herself; as a beautiful, cultured young woman who can pass for white, she is far too valuable to risk losing.

Amantha is put up for auction. When she is callously inspected by a coarse potential buyer, she is rescued from further humiliation by Hamish Bond (Clark Gable), who outbids the cad, paying an exorbitant price for her. Expecting the worst, Amantha is surprised to be treated as a lady, not a slave, by her new owner. At his city mansion, she meets his key slaves, his housekeeper (and former lover) Michele (Carolle Drake) and his conflicted right-hand-man Rau-Ru (Sidney Poitier). Rau-Ru is grateful for the kindness, education and trust Hamish has bestowed on him, but hates him anyway because his kindness is a more insidious method of keeping him enslaved than overt cruelty would be. Michele tries to help Amantha escape, but Rau-Ru has been watching her for Hamish and brings her back to the mansion.

During a storm, Amantha and Hamish give in to their mutual passion. He takes his household to his plantation in the country, but arranges for her to continue on the riverboat to freedom in Cincinnati. At the last minute, she gets off the boat and runs to be with him. Their affair continues; when he goes away for a while, a neighbouring planter, Charles de Marigny (Patric Knowles) tries to rape her. Hearing her screams, Rau-Ru comes to her aid and knocks Charles unconscious. Knowing that he will certainly face execution for daring to attack a white man, Rau-Ru is left with no choice but to run away. As he does so, he blames Hamish for instilling in him the pride and dignity that led him to stand up to Charles.

Hamish tells Amantha that they cannot marry, not because of her African blood, but because he is unworthy of her. He was a slaver who joined with an evil local leader to destroy villages in Africa and enslave their inhabitants with atrocities. He does not say why he repented and became a planter kind to his slaves. She is repelled, and goes back to New Orleans to become a music teacher, passing for white.

The Civil War begins, and Rau-Ru has joined a black regiment in the Union Army, a group Hamish sarcastically calls a "Band of Angels". The Union Army reaches New Orleans and occupies it. Union Lieutenant Ethan Sears (Efrem Zimbalist Jr.) rescues Amantha from some of his own soldiers who were sexually harassing her. The soldiers felt justified in carrying out General Butler's order equating patriotic Confederate women to prostitutes. Ethan falls in love and courts her. Ethan's commanding officer, Captain Seth Parton (Rex Reason), was formerly an idealistic abolitionist divinity student and preacher, who had known Amantha when she was schooled in Cincinnati. Parton now knows her circumstances, takes her away from Ethan at a dance and eventually propositions her and threatens her with exposure. All this causes her to affirm that Hamish is the only man she loves, and she flees New Orleans to get back to him.

Meanwhile, Hamish has joined with another planter in burning their fields of cotton to keep them from the Union; the other man is caught and hanged, and Hamish flees to his other house in the swamp. Rau-Ru, now a Union sergeant, uses his knowledge from his days of slavery to track Hamish down and arrest him. Hamish then reveals that he stopped being a slaver because, in a terrible raid on a village, an African woman who had been his lover was killed and he fought his own accomplices to rescue her baby. That baby grew up to be Rau-Ru. Moved by this, Rau-Ru secretly gives him the keys to his handcuffs so that when two white Union soldiers take him away, he can overpower them and escape while Rau-Ru remains unsuspected. An old seafaring friend of Hamish is waiting in his ship to rescue him, and Rau-Ru guides Amantha to the shore so that Hamish and Amantha can escape together.

####Bank Alarm####
A G-Man (Conrad Nagel) and his girlfriend (Eleanor Hunt) follow a trail of clues left by bank robbers.

####The Barbarian####
A beautiful American socialite, Diana Standing (Myrna Loy) and her acerbic companion, Miss Powers (Louise Closser Hale), arrive at the train station in Cairo, Egypt, where they are met by her wealthy British fiancé Gerald Hume (Reginald Denny).  Their plan is to be married in the city in a few weeks' time, once Gerald's mother arrives.  At the station, she is noticed by Jamil El Shehab (Ramon Novarro), a handsome good-natured Egyptian dragoman who enjoys romancing a bevy of women tourists, in exchange for a hoard of their jewelry as love tokens. Jamil is immediately captivated by Diana, but is rejected by Gerald when he offers them his services.  Undaunted, he snatches up her little laptog, Mitzi, when he sees she is unattended.  Back at the hotel, Powers, who asks if everyone in Egypt is a Shriner (their official headgear is the same fez, or tarboosh, worn by Egyptian men), is upset to find Diana's wedding regalia didn't travel well.  (Powers' role is that of comic relief, and her negative experiences with, and suspicion of, everything Egyptian is a running joke. Only the efficient Jamil meets with her approval.)  This is forgotten when Diana realizes Mitzi is missing, but her panic is alleviated when Jamil appears with her dog, claiming credit for saving her from being hit by a train. Diana initially plans to send him away with a tip, but when the attractive Jamil again suggests she hire him as her guide, Diana pleads with a reluctant Gerald to indulge her.

Born in Cairo of an Egyptian mother, but only now returning to it for the first time since she was a baby, Diana is apparently accepted by the British upper class despite her parentage.  She is dismissive when Gerald asks her if the country feels like home to her, laughingly asking him if he expects her to break into a snake dance.  She is not passionately in love with Gerald, and while they view the city from the hotel balcony, she gently rebuffs his attempts to present her with "romance, poetry and all that sort of rot," telling him her desire is instead to have a "civilized" life with him, albeit one that will be regimented and strictly scheduled by his mother.  Jamil interrupts them and begins to serenade them with an Arabic song of love, while casting several sidelong glances at Diana that are returned. Much to Gerald's irritation, Diana quickly starts to fall under its spell.

While touring the Pyramids at night, Jamil manages to separate Diana from the rest of the party by climbing one with her and leaving the others behind.  He then romances her with the same love song which everyone below, including an infuriated Gerald, can hear. The next morning when Jamil enters Diana's hotel bedroom under the pretext of returning Mitzi from her walk, he spies her in her lingerie, humming the same love song he had sung to her the night before. When Jamil discloses he is not only a dragoman, but a prince of Egypt, Diana scoffs at the notion.  Meanwhile, Diana is also being wooed by Pasha Achmed, her fiancé's unscrupulous Egyptian business associate. In order to arrange to be alone with Diana, Pasha persuades Gerald to leave Cairo and inspect the aqueduct they are building together. When Jamil learns of the deception, he blackmails his countryman to remain silent about the reason for Gerald's absence.  Bringing Diana orchids sent by Pasha, he again enters her bedroom the following morning and scatters them on her as she sleeps.  Diana is outraged at this second intrusion, but when Pasha and Cecil knock at her bedroom door to announce they will wait outside for her while she dresses, she is even angrier at being forced not only to conceal Jamil's presence, but to have to ready herself while he makes personal comments. Jamil declares that if she were of his race she would know not to be offended, and that hers doesn't value the art of love. As he describes his hope that the man she chooses will recognize and inflame her romantic nature, Diana becomes increasingly agitated and distracted.  When Jamil kisses her in a moment of passion, Diana initially returns his kiss, then pushes him away, exclaiming "A servant!" at this affront.  She angrily dismisses him, even though she had previously refused to fire him when a jealous Gerald demanded it.  Jamil then leaves by the balcony, further infuriating Diana because she hadn't thought of it at the outset.

Diana and Powers then set out on a caravan across the desert with a new guide.  Diana does not discover until nightfall that Jamil, undaunted by her rejection, has followed them and forced the new dragoman to leave, leaving her with no choice but to let him stay. Once again Jamil's romantic singing has its effect on Diana, but when he pulls her into his arms and kisses her again, she is outraged and strikes him with his own whip. Still believing him to be nothing more than a servant, she is taken aback at the uncharacteristic expression of anger on his face, then regains her composure and demands to return to Cairo immediately.  Jamil angrily organizes the caravan, but sends it, along with Powers, on a different route, leaving Diana to discover, too late, she is alone with Jamil on a longer, scenic, route.  Spying an oasis retreat, Diana abandons Jamil and rides toward it, where she is initially pleased to be treated lavishly by servants.  Newly bathed and dressed, she is taken to a private room, where she is horrified to see Jamil spraying the air with perfume. When she tries to flee, she finds all the exits locked. When Pasha unexpectedly enters, she greets him as a rescuer, unaware that the house is his.  He, in turn, assumes she is there for a tryst, since he received a message from Jamil asking him to meet her at his retreat. When Diana flatly denies it, Pasha confronts Jamil with what "the white woman" told him. Jamil assures him that all Occidental woman deny their true emotions, and that Diana paid him to bring her to Pasha. He then hands Pasha the same whip Diana struck him with and escorts him to her.  Jamil tries to ignore Diana's cries as Pasha forces himself on her, but when she cries out his name he hammers on the locked door until Pasha comes out.  Jamil confesses to Pasha that he really brought Diana to his home for food and shelter, and that he will need to be paid off before Pasha goes any further.  When Pasha leaves Jamil to fetch his price, Jamil escapes with Diana.  As they ride away, Jamil muses aloud, in a pleased manner, that she called for him. When Diana offers to pay him £1,000 to return safely her to Gerald in Cairo, Jamil repeats it.

Pasha's guards soon catch up to them in the desert; in the ensuing fight, Jamil kills them but loses his horse. Surveying the guards' corpses in disgust, Jamil brusquely orders the barefooted and barely-dressed Diana off her horse and rides off, forcing her to catch up and walk alongside him. That night, at a desert oasis, he forces her to wait while he and the horse drink first. Weakened by thirst, hunger, and humiliation, Diana snatches his discarded dagger and hides it.  She again offers him everything she has to return her to Cairo safely, then threatens that he will pay for his actions if he doesn't. When Jamil picks up his whip, she recoils, but he assures her that he wouldn't whip her since it would mar her beauty. As he approaches her, Diana tries to defend herself with the dagger, but Jamil quickly disarms her, then rapes her. Soon afterwards, he quietly tells an unresponsive and tearstained Diana that they need to travel a good distance before the sun is high.  When she numbly prepares to walk next to the horse, he stops her and instead puts her up on it, while he leads them on foot. They arrive at his tribal village, where Jamil reveals his true identity is indeed that of a prince who worked as a humble dragoman as part of his royal training. When Jamil declares his love and proposes monogamous marriage to her, Diana passively accepts. But at the ceremony, she throws the water from their ceremonial cup in his face, humiliating him in front of his father and his tribe. Devastated by her rejection, Jamil furiously strikes her three times with his whip.  When Diana neither flinches nor takes her eyes off his face, Jamil cannot meet her gaze and looks away. He then tells her she is free and provides her with an escort to return safely to Cairo.

The escort flees when they encounter an army troop, along with Gerald and Cecil, that was dispatched to rescue Diana. Diana declares she wants Jamil dead to pay for what he has done, making it clear to Gerald that Jamil has violated her.  The army is sent to find and apprehend Jamil, dead or alive. On the day of the couple's wedding, Jamil is still at large.  Just before the ceremony, Diana's prospective mother-in-law asks Gerald just how far Diana's "adventure" went; he replies that he's trying to forget it and that he can't call off the wedding.  Mrs. Hume worries that Jamil's capture will result in a scandalous charge of rape against Gerald's soon-to-be wife, but her son assures her that usurping a caravan is piracy, and that charge alone will carry a death sentence. She then goes to dress Diana for her wedding, criticizing her servants, her departure from the traditional Hume bridal bouquet, and how she proposes to wear the family veil.  She goes on to speculate whether Diana really will be a worthy and responsible enough wife for her son, and advises her that she will have to curb her adventurous personality in order to fit in with the Hume family.  Even Powers makes a thoughtless remark about Diana's bridal virginity before she leaves to take her place downstairs.

Left alone, Diana is startled to hear the familiar song of love, and finds the fugitive Jamil on the balcony outside.  Jamil places his life in Diana's hands, offering his death as a wedding gift if she rejects him again. Diana tells him she doesn't want him dead, and as he hands Diana her bridal bouquet, Jamil tells her the choice is hers; she will be taken by another man, and he will be taken by the troops.  But as he takes her hand to kiss it in farewell he instead pulls her into a passionate kiss, which she returns. As Cecil, who has come to take her to Gerald, pounds on the locked bedroom door, Diana pleads with Jamil to flee, but he refuses to go without her. She tells him he is crazy, to which he responds that so is she, and that they are exactly alike. Realizing that she truly loves him, Diana escapes with Jamil on horseback into the night, as Powers thwarts the Humes' attempts to go after them. Some time later, as they drift down the Nile together on a felucca, Diana contentedly caresses Jamil's head in her lap as he hums his melody of love to her. When Diana asks him if he knows that her mother was an Egyptian, he blissfully tells her that he wouldn't care if she was Chinese.  As they kiss, the boat drifts out of frame to reveal an exhausted Powers reclining on a pile of cushions in its stern, holding Mitzi and dressed in Egyptian harem pants and a fez.

####Bardelys the Magnificent####
The film is set in the reign of King Louis XIII.  When Comte Châtellerault fails to win the hand in marriage of Roxalanne de Lavedan, despite hinting at leniency for her rebellious family if she accepts, he responds to the notorious womanizer Marquis de Bardelys' mockery by wagering his estate against that of Bardelys that Bardelys cannot succeed in marrying  Roxalanne either within three months.  While Bardelys does not desire marriage, he feels he has to accept the challenge. However the king, on hearing of the wager, forbids Bardelys from seeking a marriage alliance with a rebel family.

Bardelys ignores the king’s orders as he feels that his honour is at stake. On the way to the Lavedan estate, he stumbles upon a fatally wounded man, Lesperon, who asks him to say farewell to his beloved but dies before telling him her name. Bardelys takes his papers and, when challenged by a party of the king’s soldiers, assumes Lesperon’s identity to conceal his own, only to find that Lesperon is a wanted traitor. Bardelys escapes after fighting them off, and wounded, seeks refuge in the Lavedan residence.  Roxalanne tends to him and hides him. Meanwhile, Roxalanne and her family discover with anger that she is the subject of a public wager by Bardelys, who prudently retains his assumed identity and grows closer to Roxalanne.

They declare their love for one another but she discovers that Lesperon was engaged and, furious at what she thinks are his false protestations of love, denounces Bardelys to soldiers. Bardelys, under the identity of Lesperon,  is tried for treason. Châtellerault, who is the head judge, maliciously refuses to confirm his true identity and condemns him to death.

Roxalanne, still in love with Bardelys and guilty at causing his imminent death, marries Châtellerault on his promise to remit the sentence, but he breaks his word. Bardelys, on the gallows, delays his execution until the king arrives and saves him. Bardelys goes to Châtellerault and forfeits the wager and his estate so he can propose to Roxalanne with a clear conscience. The two men fight and Bardelys repeatedly wins, when soldiers enter to arrest Châtellerault upon which he kills himself rather than suffer the indignity of a trial. The king enters to laud Bardelys’ skill with women to Roxalanne’s annoyance but she is mollified when the king says that this is the first time Bardelys has sought to marry.

####The Barker####
The film tells the story of a woman (Dorothy Mackaill) who comes between a man (Milton Sills) and his estranged son (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.). Sills is a carnival barker who is in love with a dancing girl and is ambitious to have his son, Fairbanks, become a lawyer. Fairbanks has other ideas and during his vacation he hops a freight, joins the carnival, and weds a dancing girl (Mackaill). Eventually, Fairbanks fulfills the ambition his father had for him.

####The Barretts of Wimpole Street####
In her bedroom where she has been sequestered for years, Elizabeth ("Ba") (Norma Shearer), the eldest Barrett daughter, consults with her doctor. She is recovering from an illness and is weak, but the doctor advises that a full recovery is possible.

She has a vivacious and brilliant mind, her poetry is frequently published, and she loves fooling around with her siblings, especially her youngest sister, Henrietta (Maureen O'Sullivan). Her stern father Edward (Charles Laughton), however, wastes no opportunity to remind Elizabeth that she is near death. Henrietta is interested in marrying her brothers' friend Surtees (Ralph Forbes), but she cannot see any way around her insanely possessive father, who has forbidden his children to marry.

Robert Browning (Fredric March), who has been corresponding with Elizabeth for some time, arrives in person and sweeps her off her feet. Months pass, and with a new lease on life, Elizabeth is able to walk. Edward insists she is still very sick, and when the doctors prescribe a trip to Italy, Edward forbids it. Exasperated, Robert makes his feelings towards Edward plain to Elizabeth, and they declare their love for each other.

One day, the Barretts' cousin Bella (Marion Clayton) reveals that Elizabeth's relationship with Robert is romantic. Edward arranges a scheme to get Elizabeth away from Robert by selling the house and moving the family to Surrey, six miles from the nearest railway station.


Unexpectedly, Edward returns from London and catches Henrietta and Surtees modeling his dress uniform for Elizabeth. He forces Henrietta to confess her secret affair. Denouncing her as a whore, he makes her swear never to see Surtees again and to lock herself in her room.

Ba conspires with her maid Wilson to let Robert know she will elope with him and Wilson is coming along. Edward opens up to Ba and confesses the motivation for his behavior. He apparently thinks of himself as having a sex addiction and now suppresses his desires, equating sex with sin, and he wants his children never to fall prey to carnal passion. As he goes into detail about how he wants Ba all to himself, he embraces her and comes close to making a sexual pass. Horrified, Ba repulses him. He apologizes and leaves, saying he'll pray for her. Ba soon departs with her dog Flush. The film closes with a brief scene of Elizabeth's and Robert's marriage, with Wilson as a witness and Flush waiting patiently by the church door.

####Battle Circus####
A young Army nurse, Lieutenant Ruth McCara, is newly assigned to the 8666th MASH, a mobile field hospital constantly on the move during the Korean War. Ruth's personal mission is to serve suffering humanity. She initially experiences an uncomfortable welcoming by the unit's hard-drinking, no-nonsense chief surgeon, Major Jed Webbe. Jed engages in a helicopter rescue of army casualties while under fire. He is a much-tried doctor by the continual movement of the outfit due to the changing battle lines. Responsible for the dismantling and re-pitching of the tent hospital is Sergeant Orvil Statt, a former circus roustabout.

At first, Ruth is a bumbling addition to the nurse corps, but she attracts the attention of Jed immediately because of the needless risks she takes. Against her resilience, he continues with sequential passes. After seeing that he is beloved by the unit, she agrees to his advances. He later cautions her that he wants a "no strings" relationship. Ruth is warned by the other nurses of his womanizing ways, and that he is probably married. When she asks him if he has someone else back home, he refuses to answer, and they separate.

When a young Korean child needs special care, Ruth entreats Jed to perform an open-heart operation, despite the reservations of the unit commander, Lieutenant Colonel Hilary Whalters. Jed ends up saving the life of the child. Jed is a relentless taskmaster, demanding Captain John Rustford fly desperately needed blood supplies at night, even in the teeth of a fierce storm. After the helicopter lands safely, Jed goes on a binge, forcing Whalters to tell his chief surgeon either straighten up or ship out. When a now more assured Ruth treats some North Korean prisoners, a frightened prisoner with a concealed grenade is calmly disarmed by her soothing words and manner.

After a North Korean advance forces the MASH unit to escape through enemy lines, the lovers are temporarily separated. When the unit's commander is wounded in an attack, Jed has to take command to lead the unit out of danger. Traveling cross-country, he sets out on a perilous journey, attempting to meet up with the nurses who have gone on ahead by rail to a preset rendezvous. Eventually the two caravans safely negotiate the battlefield, and Jed and Ruth are reunited.

####Battlecreek####
Henry Pearl (Bill Skarsgård) is a young man who suffers from a rare skin disease that results in severe burns from sun exposure. He has scarring on his body from a childhood accident that occurred when he wandered outside, unsupervised. His father was supposedly drunk in the house at the time, and abandoned the family not long after.

As a result of his condition, Henry is awake mostly at night and lives at home with his over-protective mother, Tallulah (Paula Malcomson), in the southern town of Battlecreek. He spends his time frequenting a local diner, staffed by kind waitress Melinda (Dana Powell), working the night shift at a gas station with family friend Arthur (Delroy Lindo), and painting murals on the walls of his room.

A mysterious woman named Alison (Claire van der Boom) is stranded when her car breaks down. Henry meets her when she's hired as a waitress to pay for the repairs. A romance soon develops, much to his mother's chagrin. Despite their differences, they effect positive changes in one another; Henry grows more confident, while Alison begins to emotionally open up.

When Cy (Toby Hemingway), Allison's abusive, drug dealing ex-boyfriend, tracks her down, her first instinct is to run and leave Henry behind. He then learns from Arthur that his father left the family before his accident. He presses Tallulah for more information and she confesses that she was the one who was drunk and failed to keep him indoors on that fateful day. Heart-broken and feeling betrayed, Henry moves out of the house.

Alison, meanwhile, is kidnapped by Cy. He threatens to torture her, but she manages to break free of her restraints and kill him. She wraps up his corpse and sinks it into a nearby bayou.

Allison and Henry reunite. He tells her that he doesn't want to hide from life anymore. They leave Battlecreek together in her repaired car.

####Beastly####
Kyle Kingson (Alex Pettyfer) is the arrogant and vain son of news anchor Rob Kingson (Peter Krause). Kyle bullies Kendra Hilferty (Mary-Kate Olsen), not knowing she is a witch; she transforms him into a bald, scarred, heavily tattooed shell of his former self. She warns Kyle that he will remain altered for the rest of his life, unless he finds someone who loves him by the next spring. Kyle is taken to live in a private house with their maid Zola Davies (LisaGay Hamilton) and the blind tutor Will (Neil Patrick Harris). Both are comforts to Kyle when his father, unable to deal with his transformation, has abandoned him.

As spring nears, Kyle finds himself infatuated with Lindy Taylor (Vanessa Hudgens), a former classmate he had avoided. He rescues her drug-addicted father from two dealers, shooting one; the other vows to kill Lindy. Kyle persuades Lindy's father (Roc Lafortune) to allow her to move in with him. At first, Kyle uses a false identity and introduces himself as Hunter. He also refuses to see Lindy and hides from her, which angers her to the point that she stops speaking to him. Kyle eventually reveals his face and the two begin to warm up to each other. Kyle writes a letter professing his love for Lindy but does not give it to her for fear of rejection. He visits Kendra to plead for more time; she refuses, but agrees to restore Will's vision and grant green cards to Zola's three children in Jamaica if he gets Lindy to fall in love with him.

The surviving drug dealer lands in jail. Kyle and Lindy visit Lindy's hospitalized father. He gives her the letter but regrets it when she tells him she considers him a good friend. Lindy calls him after reading the letter, but a heartbroken Kyle does not answer the phone. Persuaded by Will and Zola, Kyle goes to meet Lindy one last time before she leaves on a school trip to Machu Picchu. Kyle tells her to go, but as she leaves, Lindy tells him that she loves him, breaking the curse. Kyle's former self is restored but Lindy does not recognize him and tries to call Hunter but Kyle's phone rings instead. When Lindy realizes what happened, the two share a passionate kiss on the side of the street.

After the curse is lifted, Will wakes up with the ability to see and Zola receives the green cards. Kendra approaches Rob Kingson's office as a new intern, implying that she will test Rob like she did Kyle.

An alternate ending was filmed where Lindy gets kidnapped by the drug dealer, and Kyle gets shot while in the process of saving her. As he lies injured in her arms, she confesses her love to him, breaking the curse in a fashion more closely based on the book and the original Beauty and the Beast story. This ending was not used in the official release, but it was used in the official video game for the Wii.

####Beau Brummel####
In 1795, the cream of English aristocracy attend the wedding of "tradesman's daughter" Margery. She loves Beau Brummel, a penniless captain in the Tenth Hussars, but has been pressured into agreeing to marry Lord Alvanley, exchanging her family's wealth for social standing and a title. When Brummel comes to see her just before the wedding, she begs him to take her away, but her ambitious mother, Mrs. Wertham, intervenes, and Margery gives way. Embittered, Brummel decides to seek revenge against society using his "charm, wit and personal appearance".

At a dinner given by the Prince of Wales for the officers of his regiment, the Prince is attracted to Mrs. Snodgrass, the innkeeper's wife. When Brummel rescues him from the irate husband, he takes a great liking to the captain, enabling Brummel to attach himself to His Royal Highness.


By 1811, Brummel has made his house in London the "rendezvous of the smart world" and himself the arbiter of fashion. When Lord Henry Stanhope catches him dallying with his infatuated wife, a duel ensues. Lord Henry misses, whereupon Brummel fires his pistol into the air. Afterward, however, Brummel informs Lady Hester Stanhope that he never loved her. She attracts the attention of the womanizing Prince.

She and another enemy he has made set out to turn the Prince against him. Brummel unwittingly helps them, having become too sure of his position; he is rude to his royal friend. Brummel turns his attentions to the Duchess of York, the Prince's sister-in-law. She agrees to a late night private supper, but Lady Margery shows up first. She warns him that his enemies are hard at work; one knows about the rendezvous. The Prince arrives unannounced, expecting to find the Duchess, but is (pleasantly) surprised to find Lady Margery instead. When she rejects his initial advances, he offers to appoint Brummel the Ambassador to France. Lady Margery is delighted at the prospect, but it is all for naught. Shortly afterward, the two men quarrel openly, and neither is interested in a reconciliation.

No longer able to fend off his creditors as a result of the withdrawal of the Prince's favor, Brummel flees to Calais to avoid going to debtors' prison, accompanied only by his loyal butler Mortimer.  Years pass, and the Prince, now King George IV, stops at Calais. In his entourage is Lady Margery. Both see Brummel standing by the side of the road.  Without his master's knowledge, Mortimer goes to see the King, pretending to represent Brummel in an effort to heal the breach. When Brummel finds out, he discharges Mortimer. Lady Margery comes to see Brummel in his garret. Her husband has died, and she asks him to marry her. He turns her down, saying he is too worn out and tired, perhaps even of love. After she departs, his resolution wavers, but he regains control of himself.

In old age, Brummel ends up in the hospital prison of Bon Saveur. The ever-faithful Mortimer visits him, but Brummel's mind has deteriorated - he does not recognise his old servant at first. Mortimer informs him that the King has died and that Lady Margery is very ill. The scene shifts to the latter's bed. Her spirit leaves her body and travels to Brummel's cell. When Brummel also dies, their youthful souls are joyfully reunited.

####Beautiful Dreamer####
Soon after childhood sweethearts Joe Kelly (Colin Egglesfield) and Claire (Brooke Langton) get married, Joe, a former cropduster, becomes a Consolidated B-24 Liberator bomber pilot in United States Army Air Force. During a mission over Germany, he crashes his bomber and is captured. After suffering a head wound, he is given a fallen comrade's dog tags and assumes that identity. As a result, he is presumed dead.

After the war, Claire and Joe's grandfather, William Kelly (Barry Corbin), struggle to make a new life at "Kelly's Field", a small aerial maintenance operation in Boone City, California.#tag:ref|The fictional Boone City in also in "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) and is patterned after Cincinnati, Ohio.|group=Note At lunch with one of Joe's crew members and his wife, Claire finds out that Joe did not die in the crash. A year after, he was seen in the back of a truck, surrounded by German guards.

Claire pledges to find Joe, and after going through army records, as well as visiting veterans hospitals, she is not dissuaded. When she is directed to Martin-Warner Aviation in Harris, California, to meet with William Martin (William Lee Scott), the trail runs cold until her car breaks down in the town and she spots Joe at Ruby's, the local cafe.

Claire is shocked that he does not recognize her and is known as "Tommy" (Thomas Warner). Tommy is conflicted, trying to understand who this woman is to him. Grandpa Kelly, on advice from Dr. Kessler (James Denton), counsels her to not try to tell Tommy the truth, as an amnesiac would not survive any more psychoticclarify|date=January 2016|reason=Psychiatric or actually psychotic? events. As a partner of William Martin, Tommy repairs aircraft, and serves as their chief pilot. Claire takes a job as a waitress at Ruby's. William flirts with her, but she ignores him, although accepting his invitation to visit the shop. Claire encounters Rachael Thompson (Lauren Woodland) whom she sees is in love with Tommy.

After a falling out with William, Tommy is afraid that a botched contract to ship goods could mean the end of their business. Claire offers to help, setting up a deal with Grandpa Kelly to obtain parts to convert a derelict B-24 bomber into a cargo aircraft to satisfy the contract. Tommy's memory is starting to come back, but Claire is worried that Rachael is vying to marry him.

At dance night at Ruby's, William and Rachael dance together, while Tommy dances with Claire, but flashbacks of an earlier life begin to occur. When he is in the old B-24, he begins to remember the crash where he was severely injured, but managed to pull a crewmate out of the wreckage. When Claire tries to help, he pushes her away. Heartbroken, she takes her wedding ring off, trading it for money to return home.

At the shop, Tommy and William have a successful test flight with the restored B-24 bomber, with Claire and many townspeople watching the flight. She leaves soon after.  In the air, Tommy relives the shock of the wartime crash and collapses, unconscious. William brings the aircraft in to a safe landing and rushes Tommy to the hospital.

Tommy recovers, and realizes he is Joe Kelly and has a previous life. At home, when Claire is out for a walk to the pond where Joe had proposed to her, she sees a B-24 bomber fly over and runs after it, hoping Joe has returned. Reaching the aircraft, Clair and Joe reunite, with him giving her back her wedding ring.

####Beauty for Sale####
Small town woman Letty Lawson (Madge Evans) moves to New York City and lives in a boarding house run by Mrs. Merrick (May Robson). Eventually she asks her friend and Mrs. Merrick's daughter, Carol (Una Merkel), to get her a job at her workplace, an exclusive beauty salon owned by Madame Sonia Barton (Hedda Hopper). Though both Carol and her brother Bill (Edward J. Nugent), who is in love with her, warn her that it is not a fit place for a young woman of good character, Letty insists she knows what she is getting into.

After proving herself, Letty is sent on a house call to attend to spoiled, scatterbrained, chatty Mrs. Sherwood (Alice Brady). When she leaves, she discovers her hat has been chewed up by Mrs. Sherwood's Pekingese. Lawyer Mr. Sherwood (Otto Kruger) returns home and is quite fond of Letty and offers her to go and buy her an expensive replacement. By chance, she meets him again when they both seek shelter from a rainstorm in the same place. Sherwood is delighted when a fear of lightning makes Letty reflexively seek the comfort of his arms several times. They start seeing each other, though nothing very improper occurs.

Meanwhile, Carol has a rich, older, indulgent boyfriend, Freddy Gordon (Charley Grapewin), while Jane (Florine McKinney), another salon employee, is secretly seeing Burt (Phillips Holmes), Madame Sonia's mining engineer son.

Finally, Sherwood asks Letty to take the next step in their relationship. She asks for a week to think it over.

Carol convinces Freddy to take her along on his business trip to Paris. While seeing her off aboard the ocean liner, Letty runs into the Bartons. When Letty later mentions that Burt is leaving on the same ship as Carol, Jane becomes very upset. It turns out that Burt had promised to marry her the next day after she told him she was pregnant. Though Letty tries to comfort her, late that night Jane leaps from her window to her death.

Influenced by the examples of both Jane and Carol (after her first and only love turned out to be a married man who eventually went back to his wife, she became calculating and cynical), Letty turns Sherwood down. Then, she reluctantly agrees to marry Bill.

Specifically requested by Mrs. Sherwood, Letty is forced by Madame Sonia to go to her home. When her client notices her engagement ring, she reveals that she is getting married soon. Mr. Sherwood coolly congratulates her. However, on the wedding day, she cannot go through with it.

The next day, Mrs. Sherwood asks her husband for a divorce so she can marry Robert Abbott (John Roche), the architect of the new country mansion she had commissioned. She tells him that she will ask for no alimony, as she is independently wealthy. Sherwood is furious, as it is after Letty's supposed wedding, but is quite willing to let his wife go.

Carol, having finally gotten Freddy to propose, goes house hunting. The real estate agent takes them to see the Sherwood mansion. When he reveals that it is being sold because the couple are divorcing, Letty rushes over to the real estate office to stop the sale and be reunited with her love.

####Because of You####
Christine Carroll is preparing to marry her boyfriend. She finds out too late that her fiancé Mike is a gangster and, once he slips stolen merchandise into her purse, she becomes his unwitting accessory. Though she goes to jail, she is innocent of the crime.

Through the kindness of prison psychiatrist Dr. Breen, Christine turns her life around in prison, becoming a nurse's aide in the infirmary. Upon her release, Christine gets a job at a hospital, where she falls in love with wounded combat pilot Steve Kimberly, an architect from a good family.

Christine's probation officer encourages her to tell him the truth. But his wounded psyche makes her decide to keep her past a secret, and they marry. She and Steve have a happy marriage and soon have a daughter.

Christine devotes herself to her husband and child.  All is wonderful until her old gangster boyfriend Mike, fresh out of prison, shows up. He is willing to let bygones be bygones as long as she drives him south of the border into Mexico. Trapped, she agrees. After another robbery, there is a high-speed chase and a crash.  Mike is killed. Christine and her daughter survive the wreck.

An enraged Steve accuses Christine of being a tramp and files for divorce, gaining full custody of the child. Christine takes a job as an assistant for a magician. One day she meets up with her sister-in-law, Steve's twin, who comes to her aid. Christine is asked to perform with the clown at a children's party. Since this is years later, the child does not know that Christine is her mother. She falls in love with the Magic Lady, who agrees to come to her house for a few days and show her some attention and love.  Unexpectedly, Steve comes home. Christine points out that their daughter has serious problems and needs the care of a mother. She leaves, ready to never see her child again.

Steve finds her at her parents' farm. Once he got over his anger at his sister's subterfuge, he searched his soul to realize that he needs Christine as an equal partner to share his life and to help their  daughter grow up to be a strong young woman.

####Bed of Roses####
Lisa Walker (Mary Stuart Masterson) is a business executive who has gotten used to being alone but doesn't like it very much. She was abandoned by her birth parents and then spent most of her childhood being raised by Stanley (S.A. Griffin), a foster father who never really loved Lisa after her adopted mother died.

One day, Lisa gets word that Stanley has died. Alone in her apartment, after attempting to feed her now dead pet fish, she breaks down and cries uncontrollably. The next day at work, Lisa gets an unexpected delivery of flowers from a secret admirer. Puzzled, she presses the delivery man for information on who might have sent her the flowers. He says the sender wants to remain anonymous. Lisa asks her friends for names and visits the flower shop to no avail.

After getting to know each other better, the florist confesses that he sent them. Lewis (Christian Slater) runs a flower shop and often takes long walks through the neighborhood at night, trying to lose memories of his deceased wife and child. He saw Lisa crying in her window and hoped the roses would cheer her up. Before long, Lisa and Lewis begin dating but each has emotional issues to resolve before their story can have a happy ending.

####Before Midnight####
Nine years since rekindling their relationship,refn|group=N|As depicted in "Before Sunset" (2004) Jesse and Céline have become parents to twin girls. Jesse reflects on his inability to maintain his relationship with his teenage son, Hank. Hank flies home to Chicago after vacationing with the couple and their children on the Greek Peloponnese peninsula, and lives with his mother, Jesse's ex-wife.

Jesse is a successful novelist, while Céline is at a career crossroads, considering a job with the French government. The couple discuss their concerns over Hank, as well as Céline's career, and reflect on love and life over dinner with friends. Their friends pay for a hotel room for the couple; while walking to the hotel, Jesse and Céline reminisce about their initial meetings, and wonder if they would become a couple if they met in their present state.

After reaching the hotel, they begin to get intimate but are interrupted by a phone call from Hank, who seems to have bonded with Céline more than Jesse. They eventually have a fierce argument, expressing fears about the strength of their relationship. Jesse wants them to consider moving to Chicago so he can be closer to Hank, which Céline thinks will cost her any chance of a career outside her family. During the argument, Céline leaves and returns twice. Then she tells Jesse she thinks she no longer loves him.

Céline leaves their room the third time and sits alone in the hotel's outdoor restaurant. Jesse joins her and jokes that he is a time traveler (referencing their first meeting),refn|group=N|As depicted in "Before Sunrise" (1995) bringing her a letter from her 82-year-old self, describing this night as one of the best of their lives. Unamused, Céline says their fantasies will never match the imperfect reality. Jesse says while their love may be imperfect, it is real. After a moment, Céline joins in Jesse's joke, and the two reconcile.

####Before Night Falls####
In the film, Arenas is born in Oriente Province in Cuba in 1943 and raised by his single mother and her parents, who soon move the entire family to Holguín. After moving to Havana in the 1960s to continue his studies, Reinaldo begins to explore his ambitions, as well as his sexuality. After receiving an honorary mention in a writing contest, Arenas is offered the chance to publish his first work. Through his work and friendships with other openly gay men (such as Pepe Malas and Tomas Diego), Arenas manages to find himself.

The political climate in Cuba becomes increasingly dangerous, and in the early 1970s Arenas is arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting minors, and for publishing abroad without official consent. In the next decade, he is in and out of prison, attempting and failing to leave the country several times.

In 1980, Arenas finally leaves Cuba for the United States, starting a new life with his close friend Lazaro Gomez Carriles. A few years later, Arenas is diagnosed with AIDS, and after spending several years suffering he dies in 1990.

####Before Sunset####
Nine years after meeting Céline in Vienna,refn|group=N|As depicted in "Before Sunrise" (1995) Jesse has written a bestselling novel, "This Time", based on their time together. During a book tour in Europe, he does a reading at Shakespeare and Company, where three journalists interview him: one is convinced the novel's characters meet again, another that they do not, and a third who wants them to but is doubtful that will occur. Céline also attends the reading.

Required to leave for the airport in an hour, Jesse and Céline use the time to roam Paris. Their conversations soon become deeply personal, and they passionately discuss work, politics and lament their failure to meet again in Vienna or exchange contact details. Céline informs she did not return as her grandmother died, and Jesse claims that he did not return either; after Céline asks him why he did not, he confesses that he did return.

They reveal how their lives have changed in the nine years apart: Jesse is married and has a son named Hank, while Céline has become an environmental activist and is in a relationship with a photojournalist. They each express dissatisfaction with their lives as they walk around Paris, and their old romantic feelings are slowly rekindled. Jesse says his novel was inspired by the hope of seeing Céline again, and she says that reading it caused painful memories.

Céline and Jesse arrive at her apartment, even after continuous insistence that Jesse should not miss his flight. Jesse persuades her to play a waltz on her guitar, which she wrote about their encounter in Vienna. Jesse plays Nina Simone's "Just in Time" on her stereo, which Céline dances to as he watches, the pair acknowledging he will miss his flight.

####Before Sunrise####
On June 16, 1994, Jesse meets Céline on a train from Budapest, and they strike up a conversation. Jesse is going to Vienna to catch a flight back to the United States, whereas Céline is returning to university in Paris after visiting her grandmother. When they reach Vienna, Jesse asks Céline to disembark with him, saying that 10 or 20 years down the road, she might not be happy with her significant other and might wonder how her life would have been different if she had picked someone else. Alternatively, she may just realize Jesse himself is not that different from the rest. Lacking the money to rent a room for the night, they decide to roam around in Vienna until Jesse's flight the next morning.

After visiting a few landmarks in Vienna, they share a kiss at the top of the Wiener Riesenrad at sunset and start to feel a romantic connection. As they continue to roam around the city, they begin to talk more openly with each other, with conversations ranging from topics about love, life, religion, and their observations of Vienna. Céline tells Jesse that her last boyfriend broke up with her six months ago, claiming that she "loved him too much.” When questioned, Jesse reveals he had initially come to Europe to spend time with his girlfriend who was studying in Madrid, but they broke up soon after he was there. He found a cheap flight home, via Vienna, but it did not leave for two weeks so he bought a Eurail pass and traveled around Europe.

When they are walking alongside the Donaukanal, they are approached by a man who offers to write them a poem with a word of their choice inside. Jesse and Céline decide on the word "milkshake” and are soon presented with the poem "Delusion Angel" (written for the film by poet David Jewell)—a poem that Jesse cynically claims the man had already previously written and just inserts the words people choose. In a Viennese café, Jesse and Céline stage fake phone conversations with each other, playing each other's friends they pretend to call. Céline reveals that she was ready to get off the train with Jesse before he convinced her. Jesse reveals that after he broke up with his girlfriend, he bought a flight that really was not much cheaper, and all he really wanted was an escape from his life.

They admit their attraction to each other and how the night has made them feel, though they understand that they probably will not see each other again. They decide to make the best of what time they have left, with the film leaving it ambiguous as to whether or not they had sex. At that point, Jesse explains that, if given the choice, he would marry her instead of never seeing her again. The film ends the next day at the train station, where, just as Céline's train is about to leave, the couple decides not to exchange any contact information but instead meet at the same place in six months.

####Before We Go####
While busking in Grand Central Terminal, Nick Vaughan (Chris Evans) sees a woman, Brooke Dalton (Alice Eve), drop her phone while running to catch a train. She misses the train and returns to the station where Nick returns her broken phone. When he finds her standing outside the terminal she confesses that she has just been robbed and is trapped in the city. He offers to pay for a cab to take her to Boston but his debit card is declined and his credit card has expired. When he tries to call a friend to come lend him the money he finds his phone has died. Nick offers to try to pay for a room for Brooke for the night, but she insists that she needs to reach Boston by morning.

Nick decides to help Brooke find her missing purse. They are able to track it down at a sweatshop that deals in stolen purses. Nick heads inside to retrieve the purse while Brooke uses a payphone to call her husband. After using the phone, she then gets a couple of police officers passing by to investigate the building Nick is in. The sweatshop owners get spooked, punch Nick, and run out along with the bag. Nick and Brooke then head for the wedding of a friend of Nick's, hoping to borrow money. Along the way, Nick and Brooke open up more about why they're in New York. Brooke had just sold a painting and was going to surprise her husband by coming home early. Nick has an audition for a band that he has wanted to play with for a while. Instead of ending up at the wedding, they stumble upon an event where they are mistaken for members of the band. Nick and Brooke perform "My Funny Valentine" and flee when the real band shows up. After their last-ditch attempt to get a bus to Boston fails for lack of funds, Brooke borrows a man's phone, calls a friend, and begs her to retrieve a letter she has left for her husband that she does not want him to read.

Elated that her problem is now solved, Brooke offers to go to Nick's friend's wedding and pretend to be his girlfriend in front of his ex, Hannah. At the reception, Nick sees Hannah, but after being introduced to her new boyfriend, he leaves abruptly. Outside, Nick tells Brooke that this was the first time he had seen Hannah since she rejected his marriage proposal and broke up with him six years ago. At Brooke's insistence, Nick goes back to speak to Hannah and discovers that she is pregnant and that their relationship is truly over. Wandering around the city, the two find a psychic who is still open. After he reads her future, he allows Brooke to use his phone and she learns her friend could not get into her home to retrieve the letter.

After they leave the psychic, Brooke reveals to Nick that she discovered that her husband was cheating on her. Though he ended the relationship, she discovered that he was going to see his mistress again. Devastated, she wrote him a letter ending the marriage and went to New York for work. However, during her trip she received a phone call from her husband saying he was coming home early, and she realized that he had ended the relationship with his mistress for good.

At a restaurant, Nick tells Brooke that her husband will most likely understand why she wrote him the letter and that if he doesn't, that's that. Brooke, worried about the possible end of her marriage, sneaks out the back of the restaurant and tries to hail a cab to the airport to fly to her mother's in Indiana. Nick appears, frustrated that she tried to bail on him, and they argue about their relationships. They then go to Nick's friend's hotel room. Together, they unwind from the night's adventures. They then share a kiss, write on the back of paintings in the room (a reference to an earlier encounter with a painting with erotic writing on the back of it) and reflect on their night.

In the morning, they return to the train station where they are about to part. Nick picks up a phone from a phone booth and, like an earlier joke, uses it as a "time machine" and pretends to call himself in the past, saying that he will meet a woman and "you will need her more than she needs you". They share one last kiss and finally depart. On her way home, Brooke finds a guest service paper that she and Nick filled out at the hotel. On the bottom it says, "Turn over". After reading what was on the back, she smiles.

####Behind Office Doors####
Mary Linden (Mary Astor) is a receptionist at a paper milling company, who is secretly in love with one of the salesmen, James Duneen (Robert Ames). Her extensive knowledge of the paper industry, the mill and its clients allows her to have input in company operations far outweighing her job title. As the president of the company, Ritter (Charles Sellon), approaches retirement, Mary uses her skill in company politics to enable James to make some important sales coups, after which she begins a fifth-column attempt to get him named as the next president. James, for his part, is grateful to her for her help, but is completely oblivious to her romantic interest in him, preferring more the party girl type.

When Ritter does retire, James wins the position, and Mary is promoted to be his personal secretary. Still unaware of her feelings, he hires his latest party girl, Daisy (Edna Murphy), to work in the office, and report to Mary. Mary is upset by this turn of events, but remains faithful to James, assisting him with running the company. In fact, it is her knowledge and acumen which makes the company successful. Mary even spurns the advances of several men, including the wealthy Ronnie Wales (Ricardo Cortez), who, although married, is estranged from his wife and wishes to pursue an affair with Mary.

However, when James becomes engaged to the daughter of a wealthy banker, Ellen May Robinson (Catherine Dale Owen), that is the straw which breaks Mary's resolve. She resigns from the company, and eventually agrees to go away with Ronnie for an assignation in Atlantic City. The paper mill suffers terribly from a lack of good management, since most of James' success was due to Mary's guidance. James tracks her down before she can give in to the advances of Ronnie, and begs Mary to return. She is reluctant, until she discovers that James has broken off his engagement with Ellen, and upon her return to the company she is not only met with a job offer, but also a marriage proposal from him.

####Bellflower####
Woodrow and Aiden migrate to Los Angeles from Wisconsin, constructing weapons and testing them out in empty lots. At a bar that hosts live acts, Woodrow volunteers to enter a cricket eating contest and meets Milly, who beats him in the contest. They exchange phone numbers, while Aiden talks to Milly's friend, Courtney.

Woodrow and Milly decide they'll drive to Texas to eat at the scariest place Woodrow can think of. Woodrow gets in a fight with a local who disrespects Milly, is made sick by the day-old meatloaf, and trades his car for a motorcycle. Returning to California, Woodrow and Milly begin dating each other, despite Milly's ambiguously hostile roommate Mike.

Woodrow finds Aiden has completed the flamethrower, and they successfully test it out. Aiden is impressed with the motorcycle, which is the second part of their three pronged plan to create a Medusa Gang which will reign over their imagined vision of an apocalyptic future, and now they only lack a flame blowing muscle car. Tensions between friends rise, when Woodrow and Milly spend more time together than they do with their best friends.

Woodrow becomes more controlling and jealous of Milly, who is annoyed by his behavior. He returns home early to find Milly having sex with Mike. Woodrow and Mike scuffle, then Woodrow drives away on his motorcycle and is hit by a car, leaving him with serious injuries. When Aiden picks him up from the hospital, he's utterly despondent and blames Milly. Woodrow lies in bed for days and when Courtney drops in , they have sex despite that Aiden is interested in Courtney.

Aiden purchases a 1972 Buick Skylark and works on turning it into the fire blowing Medusa, while Woodrow continues to have sex with Courtney. Mike comes to Woodrow's to retrieve Milly's personal items, but Aiden intercepts him and tells him not to come around again or he'll kill him. Woodrow takes Milly's personal items, puts them in a box, walks them over to her apartment court with his flame thrower strapped to his back, and lights them on fire in front of her door. This inspires Mike to seek revenge, and he finds the Medusa muscle car in front of Woodrow's house and breaks a window with a baseball bat. Aiden stops him from creating further damage by wrestling the bat from him, and when Mike tries to get the bat back Aiden strikes him in the head. When Mike stops moving, Aiden runs. Milly finds out what's happened and ambushes Woodrow, knocking him unconscious, and she and an unknown man tattoo Woodrow's cheeks, chin and upper-lip.

Courtney confronts Milly about what she did to Woodrow and they fight, with Milly pulling a knife on her former best friend and forcing her to leave.

When Woodrow wakes up and sees himself in the mirror he flies into a rage, tracks Milly down and has a screaming confrontation with her. When he tells her that he's been thinking of doing some "sick shit" to her all morning, she replies that she doesn't care and submits to his anger. This results in sex that turns increasingly violent, ending with Milly screaming out in pain.

As Woodrow leaves Milly's house his shirt and hands are covered in blood, and he encounters Courtney in the street. She has a pistol and shoots herself in the head when he won't talk to her.

The film then back-tracks to when Woodrow has put Milly's things in a box, and gives an alternate series of events, much less apocalyptic, where Woodrow and Aiden light Milly's things on fire at the beach and then leave town. The film flashes forward again to Woodrow in the street, where Milly has caught up with him and they hold each other as credits roll.

####The Beloved Vagabond####
The wealthy Gaston de Nerac (Arden) decides to live as a tramp until he falls in love.

####Ben and Arthur####
Ben and Arthur are a gay couple in Los Angeles, eagerly awaiting the legalization of same-sex marriage in Hawaii so that they may travel there for their dream wedding. After this comes true, they purchase plane tickets; however, before they leave, they discover that a challenge to the judge's ruling has resulted in a suspension of gay marriage in Hawaii, pending further judicial review. Ben takes this time to inform Arthur that he is actually already married to a woman named Tammy, whom he wed out of societal pressure before he came to terms with his sexuality, and from whom he has been separated since before he and Arthur met. Arthur becomes angry but decides to stay with Ben anyway. Shortly thereafter, Ben contacts Tammy, finally comes out to her, and asks her for a divorce.

Ben and Arthur work at a small diner, where Ben is a dishwasher and Arthur is a waiter. Although Ben—a former nurse who quit to pursue a music career—enjoys the job, Arthur has grown impatient, deciding to quit and go back to college so that he can open a sex shop. Although the loss of income means that Ben will have to quit and return to being a nurse, he agrees to do so in order to help Arthur pursue his dream. To finance his education, Arthur meets his estranged brother, Victor, whom he has not spoken to for seven years. Victor is a religious fanatic who believes that Arthur's homosexuality is a sign of demonic possession, despite being flamboyant and seemingly gay. Although Victor lashes out at Arthur for his failure to turn straight, he nonetheless offers to give Arthur money for college if he will bring Ben by the apartment and allow him to evangelize. Meanwhile, the couple hires an attorney to consult for advice on getting married. She advises that they travel to Vermont, be wed in a civil union, and then return and attempt to be recognized as members of a domestic partnership. In Vermont, the two are wed privately.

Suspicious, Victor hires a private investigator to tail Ben and Arthur and learns of their marriage. He follows the attorney home and shoots her dead. Meanwhile, Tammy visits Arthur's apartment with a gun, but Ben takes it and throws her out. Learning about their attorney's death, Ben and Arthur agree to come to Victor's apartment. Unexpectedly, Victor and another congregant from his church, Stan, outpour homophobic insults. They then secretly devise a plan to exorcise the couple using homemade holy water. The plot fails, and the couple enjoys a honeymoon in Hawaii. Victor's priest Father Rabin informs that he is being excommunicated because the congregation does not want the relative of a gay person attending church services, fearful that he will bring them bad karma and negative energy. Upon request, Stan helps Victor convince Father Rabin to undo his decision if he can murder Ben and Arthur. They hire the hitman Scott, whom Father Rabin has used to kill gay people.

Upon arrival, Ben is gay bashed by Victor and Scott; the attack hospitalizes him. Suspecting his brother's involvement, Arthur breaks into Victor's apartment and taps his phone. After intercepting a call implicating Victor and Father Rabin, Arthur goes to Victor's church, chloroforms Father Rabin, and burns the church down. When Ben recovers, Arthur takes him back home. Deciding to be more radical, Victor and Scott go to the couple's apartment with guns; at the last minute, Victor tells Scott that he wants to kill them himself and sends him away. Victor shoots Ben dead, and then forces Arthur to strip naked at gunpoint, performing an impromptu baptism in the bathtub. While Victor contemplates what he has done, Arthur slips away and gets Tammy's gun from Ben. A hysterical Arthur propositions Victor while holding him at gunpoint, accusing him of self-directed homophobia. When Arthur fires a warning shot, Victor shoots Arthur several times. In turn, Arthur manages to shoot Victor in the forehead and kill him, before Arthur dies of his own wounds.

####Beneath the 12-Mile Reef####
Mike (Gilbert Roland) and Tony Petrakis (Robert Wagner) are Greek American father and son sponge-diving entrepreneurs who find themselves in competition with the Rhys family, Conch fishermen who are prepared to resort to violence and murder to maintain their established fishing grounds off the Gulf Coast of Florida. Run-ins between the two clans lead to an exchange of threats and all-out brawls. Further complications ensue when Tony Petrakis meets Gwyneth Rhys (Terry Moore), and the two fall in love.

####The Best of Everything####
Recent Radcliffe College graduate Caroline Bender is hired as a secretary at Fabian Publishing Company. She works for Amanda Farrow, a bitter, demanding, middle-aged editor who resents Caroline and suspects she wants her job. Caroline meets two other young women in the typing pool &mdash; April Morrison, a naïve rube from Colorado, and Gregg Adams, a glamorous aspiring actress &mdash; and the three women become roommates.

April is assigned to work for the lecherous editor-in-chief Mr. Shalimar, who persuades her to work late one night in a ploy to sexually harass her. When she rejects him, he is undaunted and continues to pursue other young female employees. At an alcohol-fueled office party, an intoxicated Mr. Shalimar makes sexual overtures to Barbara Lamont while they are alone in her office. Sidney Carter, a co-worker with whom she has an affair, intervenes to stop Shalimar after he hears Barbara yelling. Shalimar shows no remorse over the incident and suggests that, because Lamont has been married and divorced, she should expect such advances from male co-workers.

Gregg is cast in a play directed by David Savage and the two become lovers. Gregg is demoted to understudy when she repeatedly flubs her lines. She becomes obsessed with David, whose affections turn to Gregg's replacement in the play. After David ends his affair with Gregg, she becomes mentally unstable and starts stalking him. While lurking outside his apartment, she is startled by a boisterous neighbor and panics. Gregg flees to a fire escape and falls to her death when her high-heeled shoe gets caught in the grating, causing her to stumble.

April meets Dexter Key, a spoiled playboy, at a company picnic. They start an affair, but Dexter threatens to dump the romantic April unless she agrees to have sex. When April becomes pregnant, Dexter persuades her to ostensibly elope. Once they are en route, Dexter admits his marriage proposal is a ruse and he is driving her to a doctor for an abortion. Distraught at the idea of ending her pregnancy, April leaps from Dexter's moving car. She survives, but the impact causes a miscarriage and hospitalization. April becomes romantically involved with her attending physician.

Caroline, upset after her fiancé Eddie Harris marries another woman, goes on a blind date with Paul Landis. The date ends awkwardly when Caroline spots a co-worker, Mike Rice. After Paul leaves, Mike and Caroline get drunk, and she falls asleep at his apartment. At the office the next day, a badly hungover Caroline is worried she and Mike had sex, but he assures her nothing happened.

While working for Amanda Farrow, Caroline adds her own editorial comments to the manuscripts submitted by writers. Shalimar takes notice of Caroline's comments and promotes her to the position of manuscript reader. When Caroline thanks Farrow for recommending her as a reader, Farrow admits she advised Shalimar "not" to promote her. Later Mike disparages Caroline's ambition and advises her not to become career-driven, but to seek marriage instead.

Mike and Caroline consider becoming involved romantically, but their plans are interrupted by Eddie, who dines with Caroline while in New York on a business trip. Thinking Eddie wants to leave his wife and rekindle their relationship, Caroline visits his hotel room; she leaves after Eddie reveals he has no intention of divorcing his rich wife and only wants Caroline to be his mistress.

When Farrow quits her job to marry a man and move to St. Louis, Caroline takes her place at Fabian. Caroline relinquishes the position when Farrow returns to New York after her marriage fails. While leaving the office one day, Caroline bumps into Mike. She lifts the veil and removes the black hat she is wearing to mourn Gregg's death and locks eyes with him; they walk away together as the film ends.

####The Best of Me####
"The film -- the story of Dawson and Amanda -- moves between alternate scenes of the couple's relationship in 1992, and their current separate lives."

Dawson Cole works on an oil rig off the coast of Louisiana. An explosion on the job nearly kills him, throwing him into the water, but miraculously he survives. After his recovery months later, Dawson learns that his close friend and surrogate father—Tuck—has died and returns home for the first time in almost twenty years to carry out Tuck's final wishes.

When he arrives at Tuck's house, Dawson is surprised to find that Tuck also arranged for Dawson's high school girlfriend, Amanda, to join him. It seems that Tuck's intention was to heal the hurt between Dawson and Amanda. However, Amanda is now married.

Dawson was born into a notorious backwoods criminal family with an abusive father. In flashbacks, it is revealed that as a teenager, he left his father's home and stayed overnight in Tuck Hostetler's garage. Tuck, a local mechanic who had recently lost his wife, allowed Dawson to live with him and eventually considered him a son of his own.

Dawson and Amanda attended the same high school and began dating, soon falling in love. On the afternoon of the prom, Dawson's father and brothers beat Tuck. Dawson, angered, goes to his father's with the intent of killing him with Tuck's rifle. However, they scuffle, and Dawson's cousin, an expectant teen father, is accidentally killed. In exchange for a lighter sentence, Dawson testifies against his father and brothers. Since Dawson would not be paroled for at least four years, he cut ties with Amanda, forcing her to choose college over staying with him.

After Tuck's death, Amanda and Dawson meet with Tuck's lawyer and learn that they are to scatter Tuck's ashes at a cottage he owned with his wife. Later, Dawson and Amanda spend a passionate night together. They have lunch and discuss their plans, during which Dawson is reminded by Amanda that she had continued to try to visit him in prison. The following day, Amanda decides to return to her family and her strained marriage, to fulfill her family commitments.

When Amanda goes home, Dawson remains at Tuck's to restore the garden. However, she later decides to split up with her husband, and she leaves Dawson a voicemail expressing her love. Before anything more can happen between them, Dawson is attacked and almost killed by his brothers, having been almost pushed in front of a moving train. Dawson knocks them out, but after calling 911, he is spotted by his father across the railroad tracks and is shot dead.

Meanwhile, Amanda gets a call that her son has been in a car accident. On arriving at the hospital, the doctor tells her he needs a new heart. That same night, the doctors tell her they had found a donor. While sleeping, Amanda has a dream of Dawson sitting on the side of her bed when she is awoken by the doorbell being rung by her mother, who has come to tell her that Dawson had been shot and killed by his father.

One year later, Amanda gets a call from her son telling her he found out who the donor was and that maybe she knew him: Dawson Cole. Shocked and happy upon hearing this, she drives back to the house Tuck had left them. It is there that she reads the letter Dawson had left her, telling her how much he loved her. She proceeds to take a walk through the garden Dawson had beautifully arranged for her before he died.

####Betrayed####
"Betrayed" is an espionage thriller set in the Nazi-occupied Netherlands during World War II, and revolves mostly around the Dutch resistance movement.

Colonel Pieter Deventer (Clark Gable) is an intelligence agent of the exiled Dutch government, working to liberate his homeland from Nazi occupiers. He divides his time between secret missions in the Netherlands and trips to England to consult his superiors and a British general. Deventer is ordered to keep an eye on singer Fran Seelers (Lana Turner), who's suspected of collaborating with the Germans. Both Deventer and Seelers join the shadowy Dutch underground, making contact with a flamboyant resistance leader known as "The Scarf" (Victor Mature).

As "Carla Van Oven", Seelers is assigned is to use her feminine charms to gain the confidence of Nazi officers and gather information. In one scene, resistance fighters burst into a lavish dinner party where Seelers is singing, and shoot Nazi officers. Within the next few weeks, however, a considerable number of underground operatives are captured and shot while carrying out ambushes and sabotage missions. It begins to look as though Deventer's suspicions about Seelers were correct, which weighs on his heart, because the two have fallen in love.

Ultimately, as Allied troops and the local resistance begin to turn the tide against the Nazis, "The Scarf" is revealed to be the real collaborator, and Deventer executes him. Seelers, who had loyally served the underground and almost been killed, turns up safe with British troops, and the two lovers are reunited.

####Between Love and Hate####
Matt, a 19 year old swimming coach, who is a virgin, has an affair with Vivian, a married mother in her forties. When her husband Justin finds out, she is forced to end it. This results in a chain of reactions from photocopying of love letters leading up to Matt shooting her dead.

####Between Two Women####
A love triangle forms between a doctor, a nurse, and an heiress.

####Beyond Borders####
While attending a fund-raising gala, Sarah Jordan (Angelina Jolie), a naive, married American socialite living in England, witnesses a fiery plea delivered by an intruder – a renegade humanitarian, Dr. Nick Callahan (Clive Owen). His plea made on behalf of impoverished children under his care turns Sarah's life upside down. Attracted to Nick and his cause, she impulsively abandons her job at an art gallery and sheltered life in England to do what she can to aid his efforts at the refugee camps. She travels to Ethiopia bringing with her a caravan of essential medical supplies to the impossibly remote camp, where she finds Nick and his closest colleague, Dr Elliott Hauser (Noah Emmerich).

As Sarah's work based in England takes her to other volatile areas, where few people have traveled and even fewer have survived, she discovers that the harsh realities she encounters, and her persistent romantic attraction to the charismatic, unpredictable doctor, ignite in her a burning passion for saving lives, while risking her own in the process. She works for humanitarian and human rights organizations for ten years after she first travels to Ethiopia. At Dr Hauser's urging, she helps with another key shipment blocked by warring factions and corruption, and again finds Nick, now in the border region of Cambodia and Vietnam. Here she discovers the same nexus of war and refugee suffering but even more tightly bound than in Ethiopia. Khmer Rouge forces terrorize the camp, and Dr. Hauser is killed in a successful effort to free the camp from their grip. Upon her return to London, she gives birth to Nick's daughter, and eventually is appointed the regional representative for the United Kingdom for the U.N.H.C.R.

At the same time, Nick now finds himself inevitably caught up on the humanitarian crisis in Chechnya, and goes missing. Sarah realizes she must find him a third time and tell him he is a father, and that she can never forget him. As they desperately escape his captors, she defiantly refuses to abandon him and dies in a landmine which Nick survives. The film ends with Nick arriving at Sarah and Henry's home in England to first meet his young daughter.

####Beyond the Rocks####
Captain Fitzgerald (Alec B. Francis), a retired guardsman on a modest pension, has to support three daughters: Theodora (Swanson) and her older half-sisters. Theodora's sisters pin their hopes on her marrying a wealthy man.

One day, Theodora goes out on a rowboat off the coast of Dorset and falls into the water. She is rescued by Lord Hector Bracondale (Valentino). He is young, handsome and wealthy, but "not the marrying kind". Out of a sense of duty to her beloved father, she reluctantly agrees to wed the middle-aged, short, stout Josiah Brown (Robert Bolder), a former grocer's assistant who is now a multi-millionaire.

They honeymoon in the Alps. By coincidence, Bracondale stops at the same inn. Rich American widow Jane McBride (Mabel Van Buren) persuades the young bride to accompany her on a climbing excursion. Theodora slips and dangles precariously by her safety line over a cliff. Bracondale appears and climbs down to her, but they are too heavy for the others to pull up. Bracondale has them lower him and Theodora to a ledge below. While they wait for more help to arrive, Theodora tells Bracondale (who does not initially recognize her) where they last met.

They meet a third time in Paris, and finally acknowledge their love for each other. However, Theodora refuses to run away with Bracondale.

Bracondale strives to do the right thing. He asks his sister, Lady Anningford (June Elvidge), to befriend Theodora. Lady Anningford invites the Browns to her country estate. Bracondale, however, cannot stay away. He tries once again to persuade Theodora to change her mind, without success. Meanwhile, Josiah is persuaded by another guest, renowned explorer Sir Lionel Grey, to fund his dangerous expedition. Bracondale leaves, and Josiah is called away on business. Theodora writes a letter to each; to Bracondale, she declares her love, but stresses once more that it cannot be fulfilled. Morella Winmarleigh (Gertrude Astor), who desires Bracondale for herself, secretly opens the letters and, after perusing them, switches them.

After Bracondale reads the message meant for Josiah, he rushes to stop Josiah from reading his, but is too late. Josiah accuses Bracondale of stealing his wife, but the nobleman denies that Theodora has been unfaithful.

After further consideration, Josiah decides to put his wife's happiness ahead of his own and joins Grey's expedition to Northern Africa. His death makes it possible for the young lovers to be together.

####The Big Town####
In 1957, J. C. Cullen is a small-town crapshooter who heads to Chicago, Illinois, to seek his fortune. There he becomes the pawn of two high-rolling professional gamblers, Mr. and Mrs. Edwards. He later gets mixed-up in a revenge scheme cooked up by Lorry Dane, the embittered stripper wife of strip-joint owner George Cole. Before he knows what's happened, Cullen is embroiled in two torrid romances: one with Dane and the other with nice girl Aggie Donaldson. He also nearly loses his life by ending up in the middle of a deadly feud between Edwards, Cole, and Phil Carpenter, the man Mr. Edwards accuses of causing him to lose his eyesight.

####The Bigamist####
Harry (Edmond O'Brien) and Eve Graham (Joan Fontaine) want to adopt a child, as Eve is infertile. Adoption agent Mr. Jordan (Edmund Gwenn) advises the couple that, as a matter of routine, he needs to investigate their backgrounds and current lifestyle thoroughly. Harry responds with a worried, pensive look, which concerns Jordan.

Harry and Eve live in San Francisco and are co-owners of a business, with Harry traveling to Los Angeles frequently for work. Jordan arrives at Harry's Los Angeles office looking for information about Harry. The receptionist calls around to all the hotels, but none of them have a Harry Graham registered. One or two of the managers remember Harry, but he hasn't been checked into their hotels in months. Jordan is puzzled and even more determined to investigate Harry. He visits the address listed in the phone book for a "Harrison Graham" and there finds Harry, with a different wife—and a baby. When Jordan is about to call the police, Harry tells him, via a lengthy flashback, how he got into this situation.

Upon learning of Eve's infertility, Harry suggested that she join him in his business as a means of coping with her disappointment. Though she'd done well at work, she soon began to focus solely on the business, leaving Harry feeling lonely. While staying in a hotel in L.A., Harry met an interesting woman named Phyllis (Ida Lupino), on a bus tour of Hollywood movie stars' homes. They spent time together but parted, with Harry not expecting to see her again.

Talking on the phone with Eve that night, Harry tried to tell her about Phyllis and his loneliness, but Eve was interested only in talking about business. Back home, he tried again to explain how he believed they needed to work at becoming closer. He suggested planning a vacation together but she dismissed the idea, saying she was pleased with the state of their marriage. In L.A., Harry began seeing Phyllis again, platonically at first, but romantic feelings developed.  Not wanting to fall in love, Phyllis had not allowed Harry to share with her anything about his background and thus remained ignorant of his marriage.  On Harry's last night in town, they spent the night together.

Back home, Harry resolved to rededicate himself to his marriage, and planned for someone else to handle the L.A. business.  Eve was fully receptive, and she apologized for having been so emotionally distant.  She embraced the idea of their adopting a child after having rejected it years before.  However, at this point her father took ill and she had to spend time with her family in Florida.

Harry stayed at home and began the adoption process. Three months later, with Eve still away, Harry had to return to L.A. to tend to business interests there.  He discovered Phyllis was pregnant.  She told Harry that she didn't wish to trap him and that he was free to leave.  However, Harry would not turn his back on the responsibility he felt toward her and to their child.  He planned to call Eve, confess his infidelity, and ask for a divorce, but then came news of her father's death. Hearing how distraught she was he couldn't go through with his plan, but also couldn't abandon Phyllis, and instead married her bigamously.  With Eve pinning all of her hopes for happiness on becoming a mother, Harry had hoped to maintain his secret double life long enough for the adoption to be finalized and then divorce Eve, who would then at least still have her child.

In the present, upon hearing the story, Jordan leaves without calling the police. Harry writes a farewell letter to the sleeping Phyllis and leaves the house. Eve returns to San Francisco as Harry is about to meet the police who are waiting for him there. Harry is tried for bigamy, and his two wives finally meet in court. The judge notes that once Harry has served his sentence, he'll be legally obligated to support both women.  With regard to Harry's personal life, "it won't be a question of which woman he'll go back to, but rather which woman will take him back."  The film ends with Harry awaiting his sentencing hearing.

####Bill Cracks Down####
Bill Reardon runs a steel mill and is the idol of his workers; he'll forego his board meetings to challenge his workers in coal shoveling contests. His heart eventually gives out, but prior to his death he makes his will out with some unusual provisos. His playboy artist son Bill Junior returns from Paris to discover that in order to receive his inheritance he must work in the steel mill for one year with a false name, with the foreman "Tons" Walker being in charge of the mill. "Tons" decides to build Junior's character by changing him from an office file clerk to a hard working coal shoveling steel man. Junior plans his revenge by seducing "Tons"' fiancee.

####Bird of Paradise####
As a yacht sails into an isolated tropical island chain somewhere in the  Pacific Ocean, a large number of islanders in outrigger canoes paddle out to greet it. The islanders dive for trinkets the yacht's crew throws them.   A shark arrives, setting off a panic as much with the crew as the islanders. Johnny Baker (Joel McCrea) attempts to catch it hand casting with a large hook, but is yanked overboard when a loop of line attached to the impaled shark cinches around his ankle. Comely native swimmer Luana (Dolores del Río) cuts through the rope with a knife she had earlier been thrown as a trinket, saving his life.

At a welcome banquet that night, Johnny sees young island men ritually carry off young maidens, and seeks to do the same with Luana, but is stopped and castigated by the local chieftain, her father. With brief nudity and underwater swimming scenes, they swiftly fall in love. Later, the yacht moves on, but leaves Johnny on the island for an adventure. He discovers Luana has been promised to another man – a prince on a neighboring island. She is spirited away to this island for the  arranged marriage, while Johnny is waylaid. During an elaborate dance sequence, Johnny has made his way to the island in the nick of time, runs into a circle of fire, and rescues her as the natives kneel to the fire. Johnny and Luana then travel to another island where they hope to live out the rest of their lives. He builds her a house with a roof of thatched grass. However, their idyll is smashed when the local volcano on her home island begins to erupt. She confesses to her lover that her sacrifice alone can appease the mountain. Her people take her back. When Johnny goes after her, he is wounded in the shoulder by a spear and tied up. The people decide to sacrifice both of them to the volcano, but on the way, the couple are rescued by Johnny's friends and taken aboard the yacht.

Johnny's wound is tended to, but his friends wonder what will become of the lovers. Luana does not fit into Johnny's world. When Johnny is sleeping, Luana's father demands her back. She goes willingly, believing that only she can save her people by voluntarily throwing herself into the volcano.

####Bitter Moon####
British couple Nigel and Fiona Dobson are on a Mediterranean cruise ship to Istanbul en route to India. They encounter a beautiful French woman, Mimi, and that night Nigel meets her while dancing alone in the ship's bar. Later Nigel meets her much older and disabled American husband, Oscar, who is a failed writer—acerbic, cynical and jaded.

Oscar invites Nigel to his cabin where he tells Nigel in great detail how he and Mimi first met on a bus in Paris and fell passionately in love. Nigel relates all to Fiona. Both are appalled by Oscar's exhibitionism, but Nigel is also fascinated by Mimi, who provokes him. Later, Oscar narrates how they explored bondage, sadomasochism, and voyeurism. As a contrast to their sexual adventurousness, we see Nigel and Fiona meeting a distinguished Indian gentleman, Mr. Singh, who is traveling with his little daughter Amrita.

Invited by Mimi, Nigel, escaping from a bridge game, goes to meet her in her cabin, but it turns out she and Oscar have played a joke on him. Nigel wants to leave, but another session unfolds, with Oscar describing how their hate/love relationship developed. Bored, he tried to break up, but Mimi begged him to let her live with him under any conditions. He complied, but started to explore sadistic fantasies at her expense, humiliating her in public. When Mimi became pregnant, he made her have an abortion, saying that he would be a terrible father. When he visited her in hospital, he was shocked by her condition and almost relented in his attempts to drive her away. He promised her a holiday in the Caribbean, but he got off the plane just before takeoff. Mimi departed alone, crying.

Leaving Oscar's cabin, Nigel meets Mimi and they kiss. Afterwards, he finds Fiona in the bar flirting with a young man. She warns Nigel not to stray too far, and that anything he can do, she can do better. Nigel goes to Oscar, who continues his narration. After two years of parties and one-night stands, he drunkenly stepped in front of a vehicle by accident. To his surprise, Mimi came to visit him in the hospital where he was recovering from minor injuries and a fractured femur. Mimi shook hands with him, then pulled him out of his bed and left him hanging in his traction device. Having become paraplegic this way, Oscar had no choice but to let Mimi move in with him again and take care of him. She reveled in dominating and humiliating him, seducing men in front of him. When Oscar was desperate and wanted to die, she gave him a gun as a birthday present. Having experienced highs and lows together, they realized they needed each other and actually got married.

Nigel clumsily tries to woo Mimi, encouraged and coached by Oscar. Things come to a head at the New Year's Eve party, when Fiona sees them dance together. Fiona tells him that Oscar had made her come to the party. She goes on to dance erotically with Mimi, which culminates in a passionate kiss, cheered on by the other partygoers. A stormy sea interrupts the party and the two women leave together. Nigel goes outside clutching a bottle of liquor and screams his frustration into the wind and waves.

Nigel finds Fiona in Oscar's cabin, sleeping naked side by side with Mimi. Oscar claims the women have had sex together. Nigel grabs his throat, but Oscar points a gun at him and he backs off. Oscar shoots the sleeping Mimi several times, then kills himself. While the bodies of Oscar and Mimi are being stretchered off the ship, Fiona and Nigel, shaken, embrace each other. Mr. Singh encourages his little girl to comfort them.

####The Bitter Tea of General Yen####
In the late 1920s in Shanghai during the Chinese Civil War, as throngs of refugees flee the rainswept city, a couple of elderly Christian missionaries welcome guests to their home for the wedding of Dr. Robert Strike, a fellow missionary, and Megan Davis, his childhood sweetheart whom he has not seen in three years. Some of the missionaries have a cynical view of the Chinese people they have come to save. Shortly after Megan arrives, her fiancé Bob rushes in and postpones the wedding so he can rescue a group of orphans who are in danger from the spreading civil war. Megan insists on accompanying him on his mission.

On the way they stop at the headquarters of General Yen, a powerful Chinese warlord who controls the Shanghai region. While Megan waits in the car, Bob pleads with the general for a safe passage pass so he can save the orphans. Contemptuous of Bob's missionary zeal, General Yen gives him a worthless paper that describes Bob's foolishness. Bob and Megan reach St. Andrews orphanage safely, but the pass only makes the soldiers laugh and steal their car when they try to leave with the children. The missionaries and children eventually reach the train station, but in the chaos, Bob and Megan are both knocked unconscious and are separated.

Sometime later, Megan regains consciousness in the private troop train of General Yen, attended by his concubine, Mah-Li. When they arrive at the general's summer palace, they are greeted by a man, Jones, Yen's American financial advisor, who tells him that he has succeeded in raising six million dollars, hidden in a nearby boxcar, for General Yen's war chest. Megan is shocked by the brutality of the executions conducted outside her window. Fascinated and attracted by the young beautiful missionary, the general has his men move the executions out of earshot and assures her that he will send her back to Shanghai as soon as it is safe.


One evening, Megan drifts off to sleep and has an unsettling erotic dream about the general coming to her rescue and kissing her passionately. Soon after, she accepts the general's invitation to dinner. While they are dining, the general learns that his concubine Mah-Li has betrayed him with Captain Li, one of his soldiers. Later, after General Yen arrests Mah-Li for being a spy, Megan tries to intervene, appealing to his better nature. The general challenges her to prove her Christian ideals by forfeiting her own life if Mah-Li proves unfaithful again. Megan naively accepts and ends up unwittingly helping Mah-Li betray the general by passing information to his enemies about the location of his hidden fortune.

With the information provided by Mah-Li, the general's enemies steal his fortune, leaving him financially ruined and deserted by his soldiers and servants. General Yen is unable to take Megan's life—it is too precious to him. When she leaves his room in tears, he prepares a cup of poisoned tea for himself. Megan returns, dressed in the fine Chinese garments he gave her. She waits on him in the gentle manner of a concubine. When she says she could never leave him, he only smiles, then drinks the poisoned tea.

Sometime later, Megan and Jones are on a boat headed back to Shanghai. While discussing the beauty and tragedy of the general's life, Jones comforts Megan by saying that one day she will be with him again in another life.

####Bittersweet Love####
Michael Lewis and Patricia Peterson meet in an unusual way—while on a date with another woman, Michael attempts to retrieve his date's car keys from a fountain.  When his date abandons him, he meets Patricia and they soon find themselves falling in love. After learning that she is pregnant, they decide to get married and hold a small ceremony in Canada, where Michael's family lives.

Patricia's parents, Ben and Claire, have never met Michael, and are out of the country when the wedding takes place. They meet their new son-in-law after returning from their travels.  While reviewing pictures from the wedding she missed, Claire is shocked to discover that she knows Michael's father; the two had a one-night stand after meeting at a USO dance years ago. This one-night stand resulted in Patricia's birth; making the newly married couple half-siblings, with a pregnancy already underway.

Distraught over the news, Patricia goes to her doctor to see if she can obtain a late-term abortion.  The doctor tells her that if the fetal weight is still low, they may be able to terminate the pregnancy due to her situation.  Patricia ultimately decides not to go through with the abortion, but is still wary of her relationship with Michael.  The couple spend the rest of the pregnancy isolated from their friends and family.

Patricia's mother begs her to reconsider ending the pregnancy, or to go away and give the baby up for adoption, but Patricia reprimands her and says that doesn't want anymore family secrets.  Michael also starts to research the history of incest, and its effects on people.

While at home, Patricia goes into labor and has Michael take her to the hospital.  She later gives birth to a healthy baby girl named Amy. When their daughter is six weeks old, Michael attempts to celebrate by cooking a nice dinner for himself and Patricia. But the evening quickly turns sour when Patricia becomes hysterical as she and Michael are kissing.  The couple ultimately split up; with Michael moving out of the house and Patricia keeping Amy. As she later holds her daughter, a voice-over of Patricia rings out: "″In the middle of the night I think of how it would have been never to know the truth. I put myself there and in that time before the truth I find peace and sleep. But the sleep ends, and I wake to who and what we are. Brother and sister. Strangers.″"

####Black Oxen####
As described in a film magazine review, having submitted to a medical treatment which restores her youth and beauty using a rejuvenating glandular treatment and X-ray surgery, Madame Zatianny, formerly Mary Ogden of New York City, leaves Austria for the United States. Young playwright Lee Clavering meets the rejuvenated Mary and, taken by her perfect poise and serene beauty, falls in love with her. Janet Oglethorpe, an animated and precocious flapper, is also in love with Lee but he has not yet taken notice of her. Mary and Lee make plans to marry. One of Madame's former lovers, Prince Rohenhauer, arrives and convinces her of the folly of this match. In a final meeting, she makes a break with Clavering and returns to Austria. In the end, Lee discovers happiness with Janet as they ride away in a taxicab.

####Blind Date####
Kitty (Ann Sothern), is a hardworking switchboard operator who is engaged to auto mechanic Bill (Paul Kelly). When Bill opens his own garage, the demands of running his own business soon take a toll on his relationship with Kitty. Frustrated, Kitty agrees to go on a blind date with Bob (Neil Hamilton), the wealthy son of a department store titan. When sparks fly, Kitty is soon forced to make a difficult choice between the two men.

####Blonde####
As a child, Norma Jeane Mortenson grew up being raised by her mentally unstable mother Gladys. On her seventh birthday in 1933, she is given a framed picture of a man Gladys claims is her father. Later that night, a fire breaks out in the Hollywood Hills, and Gladys drives Norma Jeane up there, claiming that her father lives there, but is forced to go back home at the orders of the police. An enraged Gladys tries to drown Norma Jeane in the bathtub when she asks about her father but lets her go. Norma Jeane flees to the house of her neighbor, Miss Flynn, who promises she will be fine. Days later, Norma Jeane is sent to an orphanage while Gladys is admitted to a mental hospital, having been declared unfit to raise a child.

In the 1940s, Norma Jeane becomes a pin-up model under the stage name "Marilyn Monroe", featuring on magazine covers and calendars. While trying to break into the acting world, she is raped by film studio president Mr. Z. In 1951, she auditions for the role of Nell in "Don't Bother to Knock"; the audition goes awry when Norma Jeane breaks down and leaves in tears, but she impresses the casting director enough to give her the part. As her acting career steadily rises, she meets Charles "Cass" Chaplin Jr. and Edward G. "Eddy" Robinson Jr., and becomes a lover to both. Norma Jeane lands her breakout role in 1953 with "Niagara", but after she is spotted in public with Cass and Eddy, her agent requests that she limit her appearances with them in public, which upsets her as she feels that her Marilyn persona is just a role and not her real self.

Norma Jeane becomes pregnant by Cass, much to her delight, but eventually decides to obtain an abortion out of fear that the child might inherit Gladys' mental issues. Cass supports her decision. On the day of the appointment, she changes her mind, but her pleas to cancel the appointment are ignored. Following the abortion, she breaks things off with Cass and Eddy. She later meets Joe DiMaggio, a retired athlete who sympathizes with her when she expresses her desire to leave Hollywood and become a more serious actress in New York City. As she films "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes", she receives a letter from a man claiming to be her father. Norma Jeane feels disconnected from her onscreen performance at the film's premiere, saying it is not her. She returns to her hotel room, having been told that someone is waiting for her. Expecting it to be her father, she instead finds Joe, who proposes to her, which she accepts reluctantly.

Norma Jeane and Joe's marriage sours when Cass and Eddy give Joe some nude publicity photographs of her, which enrages Joe so much that he hits Norma Jeane and demands that she decline making "The Seven Year Itch" out of principle. She goes through with filming nonetheless, doing the famous publicity stunt with the white dress. When she arrives home, a drunken Joe screams and gets physically violent with her. She divorces him shortly after.

In 1955, Norma Jeane auditions for the Broadway play "Magda" by renowned playwright Arthur Miller. During a read-through, her performance impresses everyone except Arthur, but he eventually warms up to her when she gives him some insightful character analysis. Norma Jeane and Arthur marry and move to Maine, where she lives a happy life with him and becomes pregnant. However, when walking on the beach one day with a platter of food, she trips and miscarries. Distraught, she returns to acting soon after.

While filming "Some Like It Hot", Norma Jeane becomes more uncontrollable and mentally disturbed. She is overwhelmed by the constant press attention, feels that she is becoming a joke, has frequent outbursts on set, especially towards director Billy Wilder, and grows increasingly distant from Arthur. To cope with her stress, she begins taking pills.

By 1962, she has become dependent on drugs and alcohol. Secret Service agents pick up an intoxicated Norma Jeane and take her to a hotel to meet the president, who forces her to fellate him, before raping her, and then has her taken away after she vomits in his bed. Already dazed and drugged on pills, she begins to wonder if this is what being Marilyn Monroe has led to, and she also hallucinates having another abortion before being sent back to her home in Los Angeles. She learns from Eddy on the phone that Cass has died and left something for her, which she refuses to see at first but is convinced by Eddy, who sends it in a package in the mail. Cass' memento turns out to be the stuffed tiger she had found when the three of them were together, and the package also contains a letter where he confesses that the letters Norma Jeane has been receiving, supposedly from her father, were actually written by him.

Shattered by the revelation, Norma Jeane overdoses on barbiturates; as she lies dying on her bed, she has a vision of her father welcoming her to the afterlife.

####The Blonde Saint####
The plot of the film bears a striking resemblance to the plot of the Warner Brothers talkie, "One Way Passage" (1932). This silent appears to have been more exotic.

####Blood and Sand####
Juan Gallardo (Valentino), a village boy born into poverty, grows up to become one of the greatest matadors in Spain. He marries a friend from his childhood, the beautiful and virtuous Carmen (Lee), but after he achieves fame and fortune he finds himself drawn to Doña Sol (Naldi), a wealthy, seductive widow.

They embark on a torrid affair with sadomasochistic overtones, but Juan, feeling guilty over his betrayal of Carmen, tries to free himself of Doña Sol. Furious at being rejected, she exposes their affair to Carmen and Juan's mother, seemingly destroying his marriage. Growing more and more miserable and dissipated, Juan becomes reckless in the arena. He is eventually killed in a bullfight but does manage to reconcile with Carmen moments before he dies.

There is also a subplot involving a local outlaw whose career is paralleled to Juan's throughout the film by the village philosopher: Juan's fatal injury in the bullring comes moments after the outlaw is shot by the police.

####The Blot####
At the end of class, poorly paid college professor Andrew Griggs begs his unruly students to show more appreciation for his efforts to teach them. Among the most disrespectful are a spoiled trio led by Phil West (Louis Calhern), whose father is the school's wealthiest trustee; Bert Gareth, a congressman's son; and Walt Lucas, a 23-year-old who must graduate to receive his inheritance.

Unbeknownst to his friends, Phil's interest has been piqued by the professor's daughter, Amelia (Claire Windsor). He frequently drops by the public library where she works, just to be able to speak to her. She, however, is unimpressed by him and his wealth.

The Griggs' poverty is contrasted with the prosperity of their next-door neighbors. "Foreign-born" shoemaker Hans Olsen is sympathetic to their plight, as is his eldest son Peter (Amelia's secret admirer), but his wife strongly dislikes what she considers Mrs. Griggs' superior airs.

One day, Phil finally manages to persuade Amelia to let him drive her home after work, as it is raining (and her shoe has a hole in it). He is invited inside. Mrs. Griggs, knowing who he is, decides to spend what little she has on some fancy sandwiches, cakes and tea in an attempt to put up a brave front. She is heartbroken to find when she brings them in that Phil has departed and poor Reverend Gates (another of Amelia's admirers) is to be the recipient of her expensive bounty. As a result, Mrs. Griggs is unable to make the mortgage payment on the house.

Juanita Claredon (Marie Walcamp), another of the country club set, considers herself Phil's girl. Noting a change in the now more thoughtful and considerate man, she follows him one day to the library and sees her rival. Eventually, she realizes that his love for Amelia has matured him, and wishes him well.

When Amelia becomes sick, the doctor recommends she get some nourishing food, such as chicken. Mrs. Griggs tries unsuccessfully to buy one on credit (a scene observed by Phil). In desperation, she steals an uncooked chicken from Mrs. Olsen's open window; this is witnessed by the horrified Amelia. While Amelia does not see her mother change her mind and put it back, Mrs. Olsen and Peter do. When Mrs. Olsen threatens to make this theft known, Peter insists he will leave home if she does. Meanwhile, Phil sends anonymously a basket of food (including a chicken) to the Griggs. However, Amelia refuses to eat it, as she believes it was stolen.

The next day, though she is still ill, she goes to work, as it is payday. Afterward, she goes to apologize to Mrs. Olsen and to pay for the theft. Her teary attempt to make amends moves her neighbor, who denies she lost a chicken. The strain is too much for Amelia; she faints. Phil and Mrs. Griggs rush over and take her home. There, Phil confesses it was he who sent the chicken. Amelia is finally won over.

Phil writes his father about the inadequate salaries paid to the teachers, calling it a "blot on the present day civilization"; impressed, Philip West Sr. comes to see his altered son and agrees that something must be done. In the meantime, Phil dragoons his friends into paying the professor for extra tutoring in the evenings. During that night's session, both Peter and Gates see that Amelia has given her heart to Phil. In the final scene, the saddened reverend congratulates them and makes his way home.

####Blue Crush####
Anne Marie (Kate Bosworth) and her fourteen-year-old sister, Penny (Mika Boorem), along with good friends Eden (Michelle Rodriguez) and Lena (Sanoe Lake), live in a small house on the North Shore. They all have been helping raise Penny, since her mother moved to Las Vegas with her boyfriend.

While Penny is at school, Anne Marie, Eden and Lena work as maids in a super-luxury resort hotel, but more important than that, they are surfers. Anne Marie rises every morning before dawn to train for a possible surfing comeback. As a child, she had been a rising star in women's surfing, until she suffered a near-fatal wipeout. This has temporarily halted her progress; now when she is in really big powerful surf, she has deep-seated fears of dying. Her friends, especially Eden, are encouraging her to try once again to become a professional surfer.

Anne Marie is invited to join the surfing competition at the famed North Shore surf spot, the very challenging Banzai Pipeline. If she can do well enough to gain the attention of a sponsor, it would lift her and her friends out of the near-poverty in which they live. As the Pipeline competition gets closer, Anne Marie struggles to keep her young sister Penny from running wild and tries to deal with her own personal issues.

Anne Marie meets Matt Tollman (Matthew Davis), a National Football League quarterback who is in Hawaii for the Pro Bowl (it is hinted that he plays for the Minnesota Vikings). Matt is instantly attracted to the surfer. After a few encounters, Matt says he wants to learn to surf, and Anne Marie agrees to teach him, and several of his rowdy teammates, to surf for $150 per hour, with Lena, Eden and Penny acting as coaches. When Anne Marie goes to the hotel room to get the money, she sees Matt, but a call comes in. Anne Marie asks if it is Matt's wife, but he explains it is his niece. Later, they sleep together.

Anne Marie's acceptance of an outsider as her boyfriend causes friction between her and some of the young male surfers on the North Shore. Eden points out to Anne Marie that her current interest in Matt has weakened her commitment to training for the Pipeline contest. Anne Marie overhears very demeaning comments about herself from some of the other football players' wives and girlfriends, who are staying at the hotel.

Anne Marie confronts Matt about their situation. She soon resolves to step up her game, as she fully commits herself to the Pipeline Masters. On the day of Pipeline, Anne Marie wipes out during her first heat, but she advances to the next heat after narrowly beating pro surfer Kate Skarratt. She is shaken, but Matt tells her how he failed in his first game as an NFL quarterback, and this helps her get control of her wavering confidence.

Determined, although still apprehensive, Anne Marie returns to the water. Competing in the same heat is Keala Kennelly, one of the first professional female surfers. While Keala surfs the first few sets of waves well, Anne Marie is still reluctant to try one, visions of her near-drowning incident holding her back. Keala finishes her turn, then paddles back out to take Anne Marie under her wing. Keala encourages her to ride the best wave of the day, and Anne Marie rides it perfectly, managing to score a perfect ten. Although Anne Marie cannot advance to the next heat, she has regained her lost confidence and attracted the attention of sponsors, one of whom immediately offers to have her join the Billabong women's surf team.

####The Blue Danube####
A romance set in Austria before, during, and after World War I.

####Blue Jay####
Jim Henderson returns to his hometown in California with the intention of renovating and selling his late mother's house. While shopping at a supermarket, he bumps into his former high school girlfriend Amanda. The two greet each other, but Jim says he doesn't want to stop her from whatever she was up to.

He bumps into her again in the parking lot and they decide to go for coffee at Blue Jay. They talk about what has happened in their lives since they last saw each other. Amanda got married and became the stepmother to two children. Jim works on renovating old houses with his uncle and is thinking about renovating his late mother's house.

While walking Amanda to her car, they pass a liquor store they went to frequently in their younger days. Amanda bets that the store owner will recognize them, although Jim disagrees. To Amanda's satisfaction, he does remember them. He remarks about how the two "famous lovebirds" are still together after two decades and gives them free beer and jelly beans, while Amanda and Jim jokingly play along about how they are still a couple after all this time.

They further discuss their current lives in depth by a lake, leaving Jim crying and feeling discontented with his life when he hears of how impressive her life sounds. Going to his mother's house, they get  nostalgic over their shared memories. While going through old memorabilia, Amanda finds a letter addressed to her written years ago, and keeps it.

She then finds tape recordings of Jim and her roleplaying their middle-aged lives. They play the recordings and laugh about how uncool they were. Jim proposes they have some "fun" and recreate the tape, pretending to be a married couple celebrating their 20th anniversary. At the end of the night, Amanda confesses to Jim she is on anti-depressants and that she has not cried in years. They eventually begin kissing passionately in the bedroom. She suddenly stops when he says he loves her. It is then revealed that Amanda had an abortion back in high school and that was the cause of their breakup. They lash out at each other, ending it with Jim breaking down and crying on the floor.

Jim walks Amanda to her car the next morning, and Amanda explains her decision. Jim asks her to read the letter he didn't send her, saying he wanted to keep the baby. Amanda begins to cry, for the first time in five years, and then they laugh about it together. Jim and Amanda then sigh at one another and the screen fades to black.

####Blue Lagoon: The Awakening####
Two high school students, Emma and Dean, are on a class trip to Trinidad to help build a school for less fortunate children. Emma, a popular star pupil, has her life plans set out. The high school quarterback flirts with Emma, though she is instead interested in Dean, a loner who routinely gets into trouble and seldom socializes since his mother's death. After Dean's knife is confiscated, his father pulls strings to get his son back on the trip. On their second night in Trinidad, Dean and Emma separately attend a boat party. During the party, Emma falls overboard when police arrive in a surprise raid. Dean jumps into the water and helps her into a dinghy. Wanting to avoid getting into trouble, Dean severs the line attaching the dinghy to the boat, only to discover there is no motor.

The pair drift to an island, avoiding dangerous rocks, with the dinghy's sole paddle. After discovering the island is deserted, they find the outgoing tide has washed away the dinghy. Unsure if they will be rescued, Emma and Dean must rely on each other for survival. Together, they learn to build a fire, fish, and find food. At first they are friends, but eventually their bond evolves into a romantic relationship. Dean's father, Jack, and Emma's mother, Barbara arrive in Trinidad. Emma reveals that her parents have predetermined her future without her ever questioning it. After an extensive search, the Trinidad government officially ends the effort. Jack and Barbara both keep searching, and Jack hires a private rescue attempt. When Dean and Emma find a human skeleton, Dean calms an upset Emma by kissing her. The two give in to their growing feelings by having sex. The morning after their sexual encounter, Emma finds Dean digging a grave for the skeleton. When questioned, he becomes irritable, but eventually admits he was hoping for closure over his mother's death, suffering guilt for inadvertently causing her fatal accident. With no trace of Emma or Dean being found, Jack and Barbara can no longer neglect their individual responsibilities and both return home. As Emma and Dean's sexual relations continue, they share further intimate details, including a mutual desire to have children, but the difficulty of life on the island and concern about her family increasingly strain Emma.

After being stranded over 100 days, Emma and Dean are rescued by a tourist helicopter. They are met by family, friends, and the media. Emma is thrust into a more popular position at school while Dean, still a semi-outcast, avoids approaching her in public. Readjusting to everyday life, their relationship becomes strained and distant. Emma attends the prom, while Dean only goes because his father encouraged him. Emma spots Dean outside watching her through the window. Emma's friend, Lizzie, encourages her to go to him. Emma and Dean kiss passionately and then dance together.

####Blue Sky####
In 1962, Major Hank Marshall (Jones) and his wife, Carly (Lange), are having marital problems because of the pressures of his job and her mental illness. Hank is a nuclear engineer who favors underground nuclear testing, an initiative code-named "Blue Sky", as opposed to above-ground, open-air detonations. Carly is a free spirit who appears to be mentally unbalanced and who is slowly being suffocated by domestic torpor and encroaching age. Her behavior embarrasses him, especially given the restrictions that prevail within a military base. Their move from Hawaii to an isolated base in Alabama alarms their oldest daughter, Alex (Locane), and sends Carly into a violent tantrum.

The following day, Hank has his first meeting with base commander Colonel Vince Johnson (Boothe), who rebuffs his underground testing initiative despite strong scientific support. Meanwhile, Vince's wife Vera (Snodgress) welcomes Carly and invites her to a party organized by the base officers' wives. Carly gets drunk at the party and demonstrates exotic dancing skills. Vera begs her husband to do something about her, to which Vince agrees but says he'll have to get Hank out of the way first.

Alex starts dating Vince's son Glenn (O'Donnell) and on their first date finds what she takes to be a dud grenade. It explodes, alerting the whole base to their relationship and giving Vince more reason to get rid of Hank. Carly is invited by the other officers' wives to join them for a dance recital, and fills her time rehearsing for it. Hank is sent to the Nevada Test Site to supervise the first underground test under Lieutenant Colonel Robert Jennings (McClendon).

During the first test, Hank notices two cowboys in the test area and attempts to have Robert abort the test, but Robert refuses, explicitly telling Hank that he is not concerned with the cowboys' health or their lives, and sends Hank back to Alabama. While Hank is away, Alex and Glen discover Vince sent Hank away just so he could have an affair with Carly.

Hank learns of the affair at the dance recital and reacts violently, which results in Carly being pushed out a window and requiring hospitalization.  Hank is arrested, and Vince offers Carly a choice: Hank can be court-martialed or she can have him committed to a psychiatric hospital. When Hank learns what his wife did, he explains to her that he wanted to be court martialed in order to bring the incident with the cowboys out in public.  He quickly realizes that Vince set him up, but MPs take him to the hospital before he can do anything about it.

The hospital keeps him so heavily sedated he is unable to leave. Carly, suspecting there is a reason for this, digs through Hank's papers and finds the report about the two cowboys. She drives across the country with her daughters and finds the cowboys with visible radiation sickness. She begs them to bring their story to the press, but the cowboys refuse, so she steals one of their horses and rides into the test site, intent on repeating their experience to get the attention of the press. She is arrested, which gets the attention of the press, and Robert is forced to let her, and Hank, go.

She returns home to find Hank waiting for her, having quit that morning, and that Vince has been relieved of his duties. Hank tells her he found a new engineering job in the private sector in California, and the family happily moves.

####Blue Smoke####
After watching a fire burn her family's Baltimore pizzeria to the ground, 11‑year-old Reena Hale (Witt) decides she wants to be an arson investigator when she grows up. And with the help of mentor John Minger (Bakula), whom she met during the investigation of her family's restaurant, Reena realizes her dream.

Years later, the grown up Reena buys a house in the old neighborhood, moving in next door to carpenter Bo Goodnight (Settle). As Reena and Bo embark on a relationship, a psychopathic arsonist from her past begins wreaking havoc on her life. Reena's stalker threatens her life, and those of her loved ones.

####Blue Valentine####
Dean is a hopeless-romantic high-school dropout, working for a moving company in Brooklyn. Cindy is an aspiring doctor studying pre-med while living with her bickering parents and caring for her grandmother in Pennsylvania. She is dating a fellow student named Bobby and one day, the two have intercourse where he ejaculates inside her without her consent. This causes an angered Cindy to break up with him. Sometime later, while Dean is delivering furniture to a nursing home in Pennsylvania, he runs into Cindy, who is visiting her grandmother. He gives her his number but she never calls; however, they coincidentally meet again on a bus and begin dating shortly afterwards.

After discovering their relationship, a jealous Bobby violently assaults Dean. Cindy finds out she is pregnant and tells Dean he is unlikely to be the father. She opts for an abortion but changes her mind during the procedure. Dean then comforts and reassures her that they can raise the child together. Cindy and Dean soon get married.

Five years later, the couple lives in rural Pennsylvania with their daughter, Frankie, and family dog, Megan. Cindy is now a nurse at a clinic where her boss, Dr. Feinberg, had just offered her to join him at his new clinic in the near future. Meanwhile, Dean, unambitious and struggling with alcohol, paints houses for a living. After having gone missing due to Cindy leaving a gate unlocked, Megan is found dead by the roadside which further strains the couple's marriage. Despite Cindy's reluctance, Dean insists on a romantic getaway at a motel to relax and rekindle their relationship. Stopping by a liquor store, Cindy has an awkward encounter with Bobby, which causes an ensuing argument in the car between her and Dean.

At the motel, Dean repeatedly tries to seduce Cindy but she rebuffs him. Frustrated with Dean's lack of ambition, she questions him during dinner which leads to another argument. The two make up and get drunk, but Cindy is displeased when Dean asks if she wants to have another child with him. They start fighting again and she locks him outside the bedroom. Early in the morning, Cindy is unexpectedly called in for work. She takes the car and leaves a note for Dean. At the clinic, Dr. Feinberg recommends that Cindy move into an apartment near the new clinic instead of moving her family, suggesting that they could keep each other company if she is lonely which visibly upsets Cindy.

Back at the motel, an annoyed Dean finds the note and shows up drunk at the clinic where he has another heated argument with Cindy. Dean punches Dr. Feinberg when he tries to intervene who then fires Cindy and kicks them both out. While leaving, Cindy demands a divorce making Dean throw away his wedding ring but they both attempt to look for it later. Back at her parents' house, Dean tries to persuade Cindy to give the marriage another chance for Frankie. Cindy says she doesn't want Frankie to grow up with parents who despise each other like she did. After Dean reminds Cindy of their vows, they both apologize and hug, but she pulls away. Dean leaves the house while Frankie runs after him and begs him to stay. He tricks her to return to Cindy and then continues walking away. The film ends with photos of Dean and Cindy in the early stages of their romance.

####Body and Soul####
In World War I, American pilots Mal Andrews, Tap Johnson, and Jim Watson enroll in a Royal Air Force squadron. Mal and Tap are worried that their friend Jim is cheating on his new bride. When General Trafford Jones arrives to evaluate the squadron, he criticizes its lack of discipline and poor effort in aerial battles. Consequently, the general orders Watson to undertake a near-suicidal mission to shoot down an enemy balloon for his first flight with the squadron. Secretly, Mal joins him aboard the aircraft and when Jim is killed in the air battle, his friend manages to complete the mission and make it look like the dead pilot was a hero.

At the base, Jim's wife Carla is mistaken for "Pom Pom," his mistress. Mal falls in love with Carla and when Alice Lester, the real "Pom Pom", appears, she finds out that Tap is about to fly a mission. Lester is a German spy who sends the information to the enemy; Tap is killed as a result. When Mal realizes that Carla is Jim's widow and not his mistress, he sets off on another mission, with the hope that he will return to his true love.

####The Bodyguard####
Rachel Marron is an Academy Award-nominated actress and music superstar who is being sent death threats by a stalker. After a bomb explodes in her dressing room, her manager Bill Devaney seeks out professional bodyguard Frank Farmer, a former Secret Service agent who served on the Carter and Reagan presidential details, to protect her. Frank reluctantly accepts Devaney's offer, but he feels Rachel is a spoiled diva who is oblivious to the threats against her life.

Rachel soon accuses Frank of being paranoid, complaining that his extensive protection techniques are intrusive. However, Frank and Rachel grow closer when he rescues her from danger after a riot erupts at one of her concerts. Her existing bodyguard, Tony, resents Frank's presence, leading to a brawl between the two in Rachel's kitchen. Though Frank tries to remain professional, he and Rachel sleep together; he breaks off the affair the next day, realizing it compromises his ability to protect her. Hurt, Rachel begins to defy Frank's security measures.  Then, to make Frank jealous, Rachel flirts with his former Secret Service colleague, Greg Portman, whom she meets at a Miami party.

When her stalker places a threatening phone call, Rachel finally recognizes the seriousness of the situation and her need to trust Frank completely. Frank, Rachel, her son Fletcher, her older sister Nicki, and her driver, Henry, then travel to a large lakefront cabin in the mountains, the home of Frank's father, Herb. The next day, Frank rescues Fletcher from a small motorboat just before it explodes. After Frank secures the house for the night, a drunk Nicki, upset that Fletcher could have died, admits to Frank that she hired a hitman to kill Rachel during a fit of jealousy, but that the letters from the stalker came before that. She has paid in full and does not know the killer's identity. Abruptly, the hitman breaks into the dark house and fatally shoots Nicki. Frank pursues the killer into the woods; he shoots at the assailant, misses, and the assailant escapes. Frank learns that the stalker had been apprehended earlier that day, and was in custody when Nicki was killed.

A few days after Nicki's funeral is the Academy Awards ceremony, where Frank gives Rachel a panic button in the shape of a cross to immediately alert him to any trouble. Despite this, a plethora of backstage technical issues hamper Frank's efforts to monitor the proceedings closely. While presenting an award, Rachel freezes and runs offstage, angry at Frank for embarrassing her with overprotective measures. Later, Rachel is announced as the winner for Best Actress, but as she comes on stage to accept the award, Portman is revealed to be the hitman, masquerading as the bodyguard for the ceremony's host. Frank notices Portman pointing a gun disguised as a camera at Rachel; as Portman prepares for the fatal shot, Frank runs onstage and leaps in front of Rachel, taking the bullet meant for her and setting off chaos amongst the audience. Immediately regaining his balance, Frank shoots and kills Portman when he targets Rachel again. Frank is left wounded, and Rachel calls for help, all the while urging him to stay with her as he slowly passes out.

Frank recovers from the shooting and bids farewell to Rachel at the airport, both knowing their relationship would never work out. After the plane starts to take off, Rachel suddenly orders the plane to stop, jumps out and runs to Frank for one last passionate kiss. Some time later Rachel performs "I Will Always Love You" on a stage, while elsewhere Frank is at an annual dinner keeping a vigilant eye on his next assignment. A minister is seen holding a cross similar to the one he gave Rachel.

####Bolero####
The film is set in 1910 New York. Raoul De Baere is a coal miner who wants to be a dancer, and tries to persuade his brother Mike to manage him. He dreams of moving to Europe and opening a nightclub in Paris. He does not have a lot of success until he teams with a female partner, Lucy, and they make a success dancing in a beer garden in New Jersey. Lucy is attracted to Raoul but he does not want to mix business with pleasure.

Raoul travels to Paris where he makes a living dancing with elderly women in nightclubs. He finds a dance partner, Leona, and they have success together as a dance team in night clubs. Leona wants to start a romance with Raoul but he refuses. When Leona threatens to quit, Mike suggests Raoul start a romantic relationship with her, which he does, though he dislikes Leona's jealousy and wage demands.

A former Ziegfeld chorus girl, Helen Hathaway, approaches Raoul, suggesting they team up, saying she is a better dancer than Leona. Raoul agrees and he quits his Paris nightclub to go to England with Helen, dumping Leona. Raoul is attracted to Helen but, not wanting a repeat of the Leona situation, makes her promise that if he ever makes a move on her, she should reject him. She agrees and the two make a successful dance team. They appear on the bill with Annette, who does a "fan dance" and who suggests she and Raoul team up, pointing out Lord Coray is romantically interested in Helen.

Raoul is jealous. While holidaying in Belgium, Raoul and Helen fall in love and start an affair.

Raoul sets up his own night club in Paris and he and Helen devise a very athletic routine to be accompanied by Ravel's "Boléro" (an anachronism, as the composition was not written until 1928 and the scene takes place in 1914).

The night they are meant to debut "Bolero", World War I breaks out and the audience are talking about it instead of paying attention to the dance.  Raoul breaks off mid performance, and makes a patriotic speech, promising to not dance until the war is over. Helen is touched by Raoul's patriotism. However, when she finds out he just did it for publicity, to hold his own, in the limelight, during the major historic moment,  she breaks up with him and goes to work as a nurse, and marries Coray.

Raoul and Mike serve in the army during the war and Raoul is wounded. On Armistice Day, a doctor tells him if he ever exerts himself again, he may die. After the war he tries to find Helen and restart his dancing career. He cannot find her but he runs into Annette, and they team up again. Helen is glad that Raoul is dancing again, but she is very happy with Lord Robert Coray.

Raoul re-opens his smart nightclub in Paris featuring the famous "Bolero" dance performance. On the opening night, as he is about to start the show, he finds Annette drunk and unable to perform.

Fortunately, Helen is in the audience and agrees to stand in. Raoul hopes that she will rejoin him. They dance, perfectly, the passionate and elegant "Bolero", with some very athletic demands, to thunderous applause, though Helen and Mike see that Raoul is experiencing some serious physical stress moments.

The reunited pair are a success! Offstage, afterward, the applause does not end and the audience demands an encore. Mike and Helen say "NO encore – too much for Raoul" – but Raoul disagrees and insists they do the encore! Triumphant moments must not be let down!

Raoul gets Helen to agree to the encore, though she tells him it's her last and they must be wise and let it go. She is happy with her present life with Corday.

Raoul does not hear her words from the next room, because, basking in the glow of his goals won, and aiming at more to come, Raoul collapses and dies before he can get back onstage.

Helen and Mike find him, smiling with satisfaction, but dead of heart failure.

####Bolero####
Set in the 1920s, Ayre "Mac" MacGillvary is a virginal 23-year-old young American who graduates from an exclusive British college. An orphan heiress to a vast fortune, Ayre is determined to find the right man for her first sexual encounter wherever he might be in the world. Rich enough not to venture forth alone, she brings along her best friend Catalina and the family chauffeur Cotton.

Ayre first travels to Morocco where she meets an ideal lover, an Arab sheik who offers to deflower her. He takes her away in his private airplane to an oasis in the desert, but during foreplay, while rubbing her nude body with honey, he falls asleep almost immediately. Giving up on the sheik, Ayre goes on to Spain, where she meets the toreador Angel, and sets out to seduce him. Into this group comes Paloma, a 14-year-old local Gypsy girl whom Ayre and Catalina take under their wing. A minor subplot involves Catalina meeting and pursuing Ayre's lawyer, Robert Stewart, a kilt-wearing Scotsman whom Catalina chooses to deflower her.

After several days of courtship and flirting, Angel makes love to Ayre one morning and he manages to stay awake. Unfortunately, after Ayre has succeeded in her quest to lose her virginity, Angel is gored while bullfighting the next day.

The injury leaves Angel unable to perform in the bedroom, and so Ayre makes it her mission in life to see to his recovery. Along the way, she takes up bullfighting herself as a way of getting her despondent lover motivated to stop moping. During this, the Arab sheik flies to Spain to abduct Ayre, but she manages to convince him that she has already lost her virginity and he lets her go.

Eventually, Ayre is successful in aiding Angel to full recovery which leads to a climactic lovemaking session between them. Finally, Ayre and Angel get married at a local church.

####Bombers B-52####
The Strategic Air Command is about to introduce the B-52 Stratofortress bomber as its primary manned strategic weapon. Stationed at Castle Air Force Base, California, with the 329th Bomb Squadron, 20-year United States Air Force (USAF) veteran MSgt. Chuck Brennan dislikes his commanding officer, the "hotshot" Lt. Col. Jim Herlihy. Brennan has not trusted Herlihy since an incident in the Korean War. This career-long problem interferes with flight operations and aircraft support. When Herlihy starts dating Brennan's daughter Lois, tensions grow. Brennan demands his daughter break off the relationship.

Brennan, Herlihy, and others try to solve all the technical problems that plague the introduction of the B-52. On one top-secret test flight to Africa, after being refueled in mid-air, a control panel short-circuits, causing a fire. Herlihy orders everyone to bail out and ejects Brennan when he refuses to leave the bomber. After safely landing the burning aircraft at Castle AFB, Herlihy sends out search parties, who manage to recover all of the crew except for Brennan. Following a hunch, Herlihy eventually finds his chief aircraft mechanic, who is severely injured, and airlifts him by helicopter from remote back country to the base hospital.

While recovering, Brennan realizes that he was wrong about Herlihy, who risked his life to bring him home. He accepts that his daughter and his commanding officer should now reunite. Eventually, Brennan also has to choose between a high-paying civilian job and his US Air Force career. When told that his discharge papers are ready to sign, he decides to continue the career he loves in the USAF.

####The Boost####
Lenny Brown (James Woods) is a real-estate hustler looking to strike it rich. He is married to Linda (Sean Young), a paralegal and amateur dancer. The two struggle financially but are deeply committed to each other. Linda vows to stick with her husband until she "falls off the earth."

After Lenny botches a job interview by being over zealous, one of the interviewers, Max Sherman (Steven Hill), sees Lenny's talent as a salesman and offers to move him and his wife to California where he and Max will sell lucrative investments in tax shelters.

Everything is suddenly first-class for Lenny and his wife and they enjoy a very lavish lifestyle. However tax laws abruptly change and they find themselves $700,000 in debt.

Their circumstances become increasingly desperate, worsened by a friend Joel Miller, who introduces both to cocaine for "a boost." Lenny and Linda both become addicted. They lose their home, car and jobs. Linda becomes pregnant, but falls and suffers a miscarriage after using cocaine.

Lenny's life unravels rapidly as cocaine addiction gets the better of him. He gets clean temporarily and conceives one last great business opportunity. However due to anxiety his addiction reasserts itself and he irrationally blows the deal in a fit of anger. This culminates in Lenny severely beating Linda and putting her in the hospital. She is protected from Lenny while recovering and finally breaks with him permanently. She later falls for the doctor who is treating her.

As the end credits roll, we see Lenny still using cocaine in his filthy apartment. He has been relating his tale to a visiting New York friend, blaming others for his failures, and is reduced to a babbling shell of himself.

####Borderline####
Pete Ritchie (Raymond Burr) runs a narcotics smuggling operation to the US from Mexico, which the Los Angeles Police Department and the US federal government have unsuccessfully tried to stop. Because of Ritchie's careful operating procedures, US authorities haven't even been able to find out the identities of his sources or customers and are desperate for a breakthrough. As a last resort, Madeleine Haley (Claire Trevor), an LAPD officer and former OSS operative, is sent undercover to Mexico to charm her way into Ritchie's confidence.

Once there, Haley manages to establish contact with Ritchie's gang, but is kidnapped by Johnny Macklin (Fred MacMurray), a federal agent posing as a hoodlum working for a rival of Ritchie's and who also steals a load of Ritchie's narcotics. Haley is unaware that he is also undercover. She joins Macklin on a smuggling trip to maintain her cover and nab Macklin and the ring, all while Ritchie is in hot pursuit.

####Bordertown####
After graduating from Pacific Night Law School in Los Angeles, feisty and ambitious Mexican American Johnny Ramirez loses his first court case because he is ill-prepared. His poor, Hispanic client's truck was destroyed by careless debutante Dale Elwell. Johnny is harassed by the opposing attorney, uppercrust Brook Manville, who is defending his lover, Elwell. Johnny reacts, losing his temper and the case. Disbarred for his actions, he journeys to a small town south of the border and finds work as a bouncer, in a seedy casino owned by Charlie Roark. Johnny helps transform the dive into a first-class nightclub called the Silver Slipper that attracts an upscale crowd, and Charlie makes him a partner to reward him for his efforts.

Charlie's lonely, unhappily married wife Marie makes a play for Johnny, who resists her advances. Certain Johnny has shunned her simply because she is married, she locks her inebriated husband in the garage and leaves the car running, asphyxiating him.

Dale Elwell and her society friends, including Brook Manville, visit the club and Johnny becomes infatuated with her. A jealous Marie accuses Johnny of murdering Charlie, but when called to testify at his trial, she collapses on the witness stand, having become insane. Johnny returns to Los Angeles and proposes to Dale, who contemptuously rejects him, citing the dramatic differences in their ethnic and economic backgrounds, then is hit and killed by a car trying to get away from him. Johnny decides to sell the Silver Slipper, donate the proceeds to a law school, and settle in Los Angeles among his own people.

####Born to Be Bad####
An unwed mother named Letta Strong (Loretta Young) was raised in a healthy family environment, but she became pregnant at the age of fifteen and ran away from home. Letta was eventually taken in by an elderly man named Fuzzy (Henry Travers). In due course, Strong gave birth to Mickey (Jackie Kelk) in the back room of Fuzzy's bookstore. Surviving life as a grifter, Letta taught her son Mickey to be streetwise, so that he would not be mistreated like she was. All the while, Fuzzy strongly disapproves of how Letty is raising her son. At age seven, Mickey decides to skip school and wander aimlessly around town. Meanwhile, Letty earns a living by entertaining buyers in order to prop up her friend Steve Karns (Russell Hopton).

One day a milk truck driven by Malcolm "Mal" Trevor (Cary Grant) hits Mickey as he is roller-skating in the street. When Letty's acquired lawyer, Adolphe (Harry Green), learns that Mal is the wealthy president of Amalgamated Dairies, he talks Letty into seizing an emerging opportunity in the form of money. Both Adolphe and Letty convince Mickey to lie about the extent of his injuries. However, during the trial, Mal's attorney (Paul Harvey) produces films showing a fully recovered Mickey. The irate judge has Mickey taken from Letty and put in an institution for boys.

Mal and his wife Alyce (Marion Burns) have no children. Mal offered to adopt Mickey and with Letty's approval. She was able to visit with her son frequently. Mickey thrived on Mal's country estate, as he was in a loving environment. Mickey enjoyed having a stable home, of which consisted of a doting father and mother.

Letty is not satisfied with this arrangement and she wants her son back. At Adolphe suggestion, Letty seduces Mal into falling in love with her, while recording the whole scheme. Since her objective is the return of her son Mickey, Letty has no love for Mal, but he falls for her and they spend the night together. However, the next morning Mal informs a surprised Letty that he has already told his wife about their affair. Alyce is willing to sacrifice herself for Mal's happiness. Letty comes to realization of her true feelings for Mal, and breaks off the relationship, all the while pretending to have only been toying with him. She returns to Fuzzy and asks for her old job back at the bookstore.

####Born to Gamble####
Four brothers feel cursed by their family's gambling bug. All four try to overcome the addiction: only one, the youngest, is successful.

####Born to Love####
Doris Kendall (Constance Bennett) is an American nurse working in London during World War I. During an air raid, she meets a young American Aviator, Captain Barry Craig, who is enjoying a brief leave from his duties.  The two hit it off and fall in love.  They plan to marry after the war, but for the moment, they simply enjoy each other's company. After a short while, Craig has to return to the front.  It is not long before Doris receives notice that her lover has been shot down behind enemy lines and is presumed dead.

Disconsolate, she turns to a long-time friend and admirer, Sir Wilfred Drake (Paul Cavanagh). Soon it is apparent that the nights she spent with Craig are more than a memory, as she is pregnant with his child. On Armistice Day Drake proposes to Doris, who at first refuses, but he eventually convinces her that it will be best for both her and the baby.

They all seem happy for a time after she has the baby. The child will be the official heir to the Drake estate, and the couple get along quite well. That is, until Craig re-appears. When she finds out, she is torn by her marriage to Drake versus her love for Craig. Eventually, she can't help herself and goes to see Craig. When Drake discovers that not only did Doris go to see Craig but that she is still in love with him, he divorces her and takes custody of their son. But she still does not return to Craig, hoping that she will at some point be reunited with her child.

Two years later, Doris is still distraught over the way things have turned out. She has been forbidden to see her son during this time, but finally gets permission from Drake. However, when she arrives, she discovers that her son has died. Suicidal, she begins to wander the streets, until she is found by Craig, who is still in love with her, and whom she finally agrees to marry.

####Bounce####
In Chicago's O'Hare airport, advertising executive Buddy Amaral is delayed by a snow storm for a return flight to Los Angeles, on the same airline he has just signed as a big client. He meets writer Greg Janello, and when his flight resumes boarding, Buddy gives his ticket to Greg so he can get home to his wife and sons, eight-year-old Scott and four-year-old Joey.

Buddy convinces his friend and airline employee Janice Guerrero to allow Greg to take his place on the flight. While spending the night with fellow stranded passenger Mimi, he sees on television that the flight crashed. He has Janice check into the computer system to change his for Greg's name on the passenger manifest.

Greg's wife Abby is woken up by news of the crash, and for many hours is torn between hope and despair, clinging to the belief that Greg would still arrive on the later flight on which he was originally booked, until his death is confirmed.

Once back in Los Angeles, the airline dictates that Buddy run a series of innocuous ads to ameliorate the tragic consequences of the crash, which win a Clio Award. Plagued with guilt, Buddy makes a drunken scene at the awards show, and begins a stint in Alcoholics Anonymous. One of the steps in recovery is to make up for past misdeeds, so Buddy seeks out Abby, a budding realtor, giving her a tip on a commercial office building that Jim, Buddy's partner and boss, has put a bid on. In return, Abby treats Buddy to a night at Dodger Stadium. Their relationship blossoms, even as Buddy does not tell her about being indirectly responsible for Greg's death.

When the airline settles with Greg's estate, Abby next wants to put her boys on an aircraft to Palm Springs to get over their fear of flying. Buddy asks to go along with them, and soon develops a strong bond with the two boys. On the return trip, Buddy says he has a secret he will reveal the next day.

It all comes apart when Mimi shows up, with a video of Greg and Buddy having a drink in the airport bar. Abby is devastated by Buddy lying to her and demands that he leave her home and her life - though also demands that he say goodbye to the boys. Buddy comes back the next day and talks to Scott, who is afraid that his father died trying to get home for a Boy Scouts Christmas tree outing. Abby harbors the same guilt for pressuring Greg to come home on the fateful flight.

The victims' families sue the airline for damages, and Janice's role is revealed when Buddy is called to testify. As Abby watches on television, Buddy explains that he gave his ticket to Greg and did not take Greg's in exchange. In coercing Janice to change the roster, the airline's security procedures were compromised, which gets her fired. Buddy is excused by the judge, but still feels guilty.

Buddy resigns from his firm, having compromised his client, the airline. Abby comes by to tell him that his talk with Scott had helped them both. Buddy, sensing that Abby is about to leave, asks her to help him rent his beachfront home or put it up for sale. As Buddy starts to talk about his plans, Abby realizes she can forgive him.

####Boxing Helena####
The movie follows a surgeon whose growing obsession with a woman leads him to hold her captive in his home after she suffers a car accident and to amputate her limbs to keep her captive.

Nick Cavanaugh is a lonely Atlanta surgeon obsessed with Helena, with whom he had one intimate experience, but she disdains him. After she suffers a high-grade tibial fracture in a hit-and-run motor vehicle collision in front of his home, Nick kidnaps Helena and surreptitiously treats her in his home, amputating both her legs above the knee. Later, after she tries to choke him, Nick amputates her arms above the elbow.

Though Helena is the victim of Nick's kidnapping and mutilation, she dominates the dialogue with constant ridicule of his shortcomings. But this was all a dream: Helena awakes in the hospital with all her limbs intact.

####Boy Culture####
A successful escort describes in a series of confessions his entangled romantic relationships with his two roommates and an older, enigmatic client.

The story remains the same as the novel, about a man who goes by only the letter "X" to maintain his anonymity and relationships between his two roommates—one of whom he's in love with—and an enigmatic older client who challenges him to find his heart before he will consent to sex.

The film's differences from the novel include Andrew's character (now an African-American) and the location of the story in Seattle, Washington, instead of Chicago, Illinois.

####The Boy in the Plastic Bubble####
John and Mickey Lubitch conceive a child. After multiple previous miscarriages and the death of their first son (who was born without a functioning immune system), Mickey fears the likelihood that something gravely wrong could happen to their child. John assures her that the odds of their next child being born with the same condition are low.

The pregnancy results in the birth of a live baby boy, whom they name Tod. Tod's immune system also does not function properly, meaning that contact with unfiltered air may kill him. John and Mickey are told he may have to live out his entire life in incubator-like conditions. After a strenuous four years of Tod living in the hospital, Mickey convinces John to find a way to bring Tod home. He lives with his parents in Houston, Texas. He is restricted to staying in his room all his life where he eats, learns, reads, and exercises, while being protected from the outside world by various coverings.

As Tod grows, he wishes to see more of the outside world and meet regular people his age. He is enrolled at the local school after being equipped with suitable protective clothing, similar in style to a space suit. He falls in love with his next door neighbor, Gina Biggs, and he must decide between following his heart and facing near-certain death, or remaining in his protective bubble forever.

In the end, after having a discussion with his doctor who tells him he has built up some immunities which may possibly be enough to survive the real world, he steps outside his house, unprotected, and he and Gina ride off on her horse.

####Boy on a Dolphin####
Phaedra (Sophia Loren) is a poor Greek sponge diver on the island of Hydra. She works from the boat of her boyfriend, Rhif (Jorge Mistral), an immigrant from Albania. She accidentally finds an ancient Greek statue of a boy riding a dolphin on the bottom of the Aegean Sea. The statue brings pride to the city of Hydra and has been lost for around 2000 years. Her efforts to sell it to the highest bidder lead her to two competing individuals: Dr. James Calder (Alan Ladd), an honest archaeologist who will surrender it to Greek authorities, and Victor Parmalee (Clifton Webb), an aesthete and an unscrupulous dealer in historic artifacts.

Calder and Parmalee each try to win Phaedra's cooperation. She works in concert with Parmalee, while developing feelings for Calder. When she seems to waver, Rhif decides to make the deal with Parmalee work. The film reaches a happy conclusion, with virtue rewarded, the statue celebrated by the people of Hydra, and Phaedra and Calder in each other's arms. Parmalee, a man with no apparent national loyalties or heritage, sets course for Monte Carlo.

####Boys####
John Baker Jr. (Lukas Haas) is a boy bored with his life at an upper middle class boarding school, and the prospect of his future running the family grocery store chain. He no longer sees the point in school, stating what's the difference if he gets a zero attendance for being three minutes late or skipping the whole class so he might as well skip the class. Now close to graduating from boarding school, his life is turned upside down when he rescues Patty Vare (Winona Ryder), a young woman he finds lying unconscious in a field.  Patty regains consciousness that evening in John's dormitory.  She stays awake long enough to tell him she will not go to a doctor, and then passes out and does not awaken until the next morning. She seems to recover completely and to be grateful for John's assistance; the two begin a romantic voyage of self-discovery. This is not without its problems, as other boys in the dorm quickly find out she is being hidden in his room, leading up to a dramatic confrontation with Baker's close friends where his 'best friend' becomes enraged and punches a wall, breaking his hand, while the two continue to argue over the reason as to why Baker has hidden her in his room.

Throughout the film, there are continuous flashbacks of Vare's past, showing her with a famous baseball player with whom she steals a car, leading up to a drunken car crash and his death (for which authorities are searching for Vare for questioning). By the end, Vare has admitted all this to Baker and informed the authorities of the location of the body and the car (as they crashed into a river). At the police station, both Baker and Vare begin to say goodbye when they unexpectedly jump into an elevator to escape from Baker's controlling father (Chris Cooper), and drive off with a car he had earlier stolen from the school.

####Boys Don't Cry####
Brandon Teena is a young trans man. When Brandon is discovered to be transgender by a former girlfriend's brother, he receives death threats. Soon after, he is involved in a bar fight and is evicted from his cousin's trailer. Brandon moves to Falls City, Nebraska, where he befriends ex-convicts John Lotter and Tom Nissen,  and their friends Candace and Lana Tisdel. Brandon becomes romantically involved with Lana, who is initially unaware both of his anatomy and his troubled past. The two make plans to move to Memphis, where Brandon will manage Lana's karaoke singing career. Eventually, they kiss during a date night which ends with them having sex.

The police detain Brandon on charges that arose prior to his relocation; they place him in the women's section of the Falls City jail. Lana bails Brandon out and asks why he was placed in a women's jail. Brandon attempts to lie to her, saying he was born a hermaphrodite and will soon receive genital reconstruction surgery, but Lana stops him, declaring her love for him regardless of his gender. However, while Brandon is in jail, Candace finds a number of documents listing Brandon's birth name, and she and her friends react to this news with shock and disgust. They enter Brandon's room, search among Brandon's things, and discover  transgender pamphlets that confirm their suspicions. When Brandon and Lana return, Tom and John violently confront Brandon and take him into the bathroom, forcing him to remove his pants and reveal his genitals. They try to make Lana look, but she shields her eyes and turns away. After this confrontation, Tom and John drag Brandon into John's car and drive to an isolated location, where they brutally beat and gang rape him.

Afterwards, they take Brandon to Tom's house, where Brandon escapes through a bathroom window. Although his assailants threaten Brandon and warn him not to report the attack to the police, Lana convinces him to do so. However, the police chief proves to be less concerned with the crime and interrogates Brandon about his sexual identity.

Later, John and Tom get drunk and drive to Candace's house. Lana attempts to stop them, but they find Brandon, who has been hiding in a nearby shed. John shoots Brandon under the chin, killing him instantly. While Candace is crying out to them to spare her baby, Tom shoots her in the head and kills her as Lana fights with them, begging them to stop. Tom stabs Brandon's lifeless body. John and Tom flee the scene while a crying Lana lies with Brandon's body and the baby toddles through the open door to the outside, crying. The next morning, Lana awakens next to Brandon's corpse. Her mother arrives and takes her away from the scene. As Lana leaves Falls City, a letter to her from Brandon that she found on his body, is heard in a voiceover, saying that in Memphis "I'll be waiting for you, love always and forever".

####Boyz n the Hood####
In 1984, ten-year-old Tre Styles lives with his single mother, Reva Devereaux, in Inglewood, California. After Tre gets into a fight at school, his teacher calls Reva and says that although Tre is intelligent, he is immature and lacks respect. Frightened about Tre's future, Reva sends him to live in the Crenshaw neighborhood of South Central with his father, Furious Styles, from whom she hopes Tre will learn life lessons. Furious is strict and assigns Tre chores, but he is also a caring and attentive father.  In Crenshaw, Tre reunites with his childhood friends Darrin "Doughboy" Baker, Doughboy's half-brother Ricky, and their friend Chris. That night, Tre hears Furious shooting at a burglar. Furious calls the LAPD, and two officers arrive an hour later. The white officer is civil, while the black one treats Furious with contempt. The next day, Tre and Furious return from a fishing trip to see Doughboy and Chris being arrested for stealing.

Seven years later, a welcome home party is held for Doughboy, now a Crips member, following his release from prison. At the party are Chris, now in a wheelchair from a gunshot wound, and new friends and fellow Crip members Dookie and Monster. Ricky, now a star running back at Crenshaw High School, lives with his mother Brenda, girlfriend Shanice, and their toddler son. Meanwhile, Tre has grown into a responsible teenager who hopes to attend college with his girlfriend, Brandi. Their relationship is troubled over Tre's desire to have sex, while Brandi wants to wait until marriage.

Later, during a street racing gathering, Ricky is provoked by Ferris, a Bloods member. In Ricky's defense, Doughboy brandishes his handgun, leading to an argument between the gangs. After they leave, Tre and Ricky are pulled over by an LAPD patrol; the lead officer, Coffey, is the black officer who responded to the burglary years earlier. Coffey holds his gun at Tre's throat, threatening him. Distraught, Tre goes to Brandi's house, where he has a breakdown. After she comforts him, they have sex.

The next afternoon, Ricky has a fight with Doughboy, with Brenda taking Ricky's side, and berating Doughboy. Afterward, Brenda asks Ricky to run an errand and Tre accompanies him to a nearby drugstore. After they depart, a letter is delivered with Ricky's SAT results. After leaving the store, Ricky and Tre see Ferris and the Bloods driving around and cut through back alleys to avoid them before splitting up. As they walk in separate directions, the Bloods drive close to Ricky and one of them fatally guns him down. Doughboy, who realized Tre and Ricky were in trouble when he saw the car circling the block, is distraught over Ricky's death. Doughboy helps Tre carry Ricky's bloodied corpse home. Brenda and Shanice break into tears, with Brenda and Shanice blaming Doughboy for causing the shooting. Later, Brenda sobs over Ricky's test results. Ricky scored a 710, enough to qualify for the USC scholarship.

Angered, the remaining boys vow vengeance on the Bloods. Furious finds Tre preparing to take his gun but convinces him to abandon his plans for revenge. However, Brandi and Furious catch Tre sneaking out to join Doughboy. Later, as the gang drive around the city, Tre asks to be let out of the car and returns home. Doughboy finds the Bloods at a fast-food restaurant. Monster guns the Bloods down as they flee. Doughboy gets out of his car and shoots Ferris and another  wounded gang member dead, avenging Ricky’s death. Later that evening, after coming home, Furious waits for Tre. The two stare at each other with no words exchanged and walk into their bedrooms for the night.

The next morning, Doughboy visits Tre, understanding Tre's reasons for abandoning the gang. Doughboy knows he will face retaliation for killing Ferris and accepts the consequences of his crime-ridden life. He questions why American media "don't know, don't show, or don't care about what's going on in the hood." He says that he has no brothers after Ricky's death, but Tre embraces him, saying he's "still got one brother left."

The epilogue text reveals that Ricky was buried the next day, Doughboy was murdered two weeks later, and Tre later goes to college with Brandi in Atlanta.

####Breaking and Entering####
Will Francis, a young Englishman, is a landscape architect living a detached, routine-based life in London with his Swedish-American girlfriend Liv and her autistic daughter Bea. The 13-year-old girl's irregular sleeping and eating habits as well as her unsocial behaviour (she has trouble relating to people and seems only interested in doing somersaults and gymnastics) reach worrying proportions and start to put a lot of strain on Will and Liv's relationship. Complicating the situation further is his feeling of being shut out of their inner circle since Bea is not his biological daughter. He and Liv start relationship counselling, but their drifting apart continues.

Simultaneously on the business front, Will's and his partner Sandy's state-of-the-art offices in the Kings Cross area are repeatedly burgled by a group of Slavic-language-speaking thieves. The thieves employ a 15-year-old traceur named Mirsad "Miro" whose acrobatic skills allow them to enter the building. Miro is actually a refugee from Bosnia and Herzegovina living with his Bosnian Muslim mother Amira (Juliette Binoche) who works as a seamstress, while his Serbian father got murdered during the war.

Though they're puzzled about the burglars' ability to disable the alarm, the two architects are not particularly worried after the first break-in, mostly writing it off to the neighbourhood's dodgy reputation. However, after the second break-in, they decide to stake out the building after hours hoping to find the culprit and alert the police. Being out of the house on nightly stakeouts actually suits Will just fine, allowing him to get away from the cold atmosphere of his household.

Will strikes up a strange acquaintance with an Eastern European prostitute named Oana (Vera Farmiga) who hangs around the area every night. Spotting Miro attempting to break in one night, Will attempts to follow him. This pursuit leads Will to the flat where Miro lives with his mother Amira. Realizing their modest living means, he decides not to report his findings to the police, but goes back to Amira's apartment under the guise of having a suit that needs mending.

He soon becomes emotionally entangled with her, causing him to re-evaluate his life. Conflict arises when the police close in on the burglars, and Will must make a crucial choice which will affect the lives of everyone around him.

####The Breath of the Gods####
As described in a film magazine, the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905 threatens the peace of Japan, so Yuki Onda (Aoki) is directed home from her American school by her father (Seki). With her sails a party of American diplomatic friends that includes Pierre Le Beau (Wheatcroft), to whom Yuki has pledged her love. Her father's faith in her inherited honor obliges her to marry Prince Hagane (Carewe), and in the opportunity to be of service to her country comes an opposing loyalty to him and love for Le Beau. Le Beau is an attache of the embassy of Australia in Japan, and he is made an unwilling instrument in an attempt to secure valuable information from her. Yuki, believing that she has failed in her trust, takes her own life, leaving a sorrowing Prince and the penitent and loving Le Beau.

####Breathe In####
Keith Reynolds is a high school music teacher married to Megan and living in a small town an hour and half from New York City. He gave up a career as a musician following the arrival of their daughter. Lauren is very nearly 18 and is a champion swimmer. In his spare time, he substitutes for a cello player in an orchestra and is applying for a permanent role. Keith finds his life frustrating, resents his job as a teacher, and his wife's dismissal of his music playing. He wants to move back to the city and work as a musician, but his wife Megan refuses to consider this as she disliked the uncertainty of the income and the lifestyle.

The family is to host a foreign exchange student from England, Sophie, for one semester. When Sophie arrives, she is disappointed by the distance from Manhattan which she wanted to visit. Sophie's mother died when she was very young and she was raised by her uncle and aunt. Her uncle introduced her to the piano but has recently died, affecting Sophie badly. Sophie tells her aunt that she is not practicing her music because she does not know who she is playing for anymore.

Sophie reveals to Keith that she is an accomplished musician and they bond over their mutual interest. While they are alone at the house, she tells Keith about the death of her uncle and that she wants to choose to play music. Sophie is unsure and has lost her purpose following her uncle's death, so she does not play. Keith has chosen not to play for the sake of his family.

Keith and Sophie embark on a love affair, spending time together talking about running away together. Lauren discovers this and reveals her knowledge to Sophie by attacking her while she is asleep in bed. Sophie panics after Lauren's attack and tells Keith she must leave. Keith tells her he will run away with her. They plan to meet in New York City after a performance, packing their things.

Lauren, angry at her father and having been spurned by Aaron, gets drunk and crashes her car. Meanwhile, Megan discovers Keith and Sophie's affair and their plan to run away. While she is smashing things around the house in anger, she gets a call telling her Lauren is hurt and in hospital.

Following his performance, Keith meets up with Sophie. They load their things in the car and are smiling at each other in happiness. Suddenly Keith receives a text message from Megan telling him that something has happened to Lauren. He appears at the hospital where Megan tells him she does not know how Lauren is.

The film ends with the family having a photo shoot. Lauren is fine but has a scar near her eye. Keith has decided to return to his wife and Sophie has gone.

####Breathless####
Jesse Lujack (Richard Gere) is a cocky, hedonistic drifter, and small time car thief,  in Las Vegas. He’s obsessed with "Silver Surfer" comic books, the rock and roll music of Jerry Lee Lewis, and Monica Poiccard (Valérie Kaprisky), a UCLA architecture undergraduate whom he knows only from a weekend fling while she visited Vegas.

Leaving Las Vegas, Lujack steals a Porsche, intending to drive to Los Angeles. As he speeds down the highway and looks through the owner's possessions, Lujack discovers a handgun in the vehicle's glovebox, which he briefly toys with. He comes upon a highway construction roadblock and evades it. Seeing his reckless driving, a Patrolman gives chase and the fleeing Lujack runs off the road and becomes stuck. When the Officer spotlights him and orders him to step away from the car, Lujack impulsively grabs the gun, and blindly shoots through the back window of the car, inadvertently mortally wounding the Patrolman. The remorseful Lujack pads the dying Officers head with his coat, and flees on foot.  Arriving in Los Angeles, Lujack finds his picture splashed all over the newspaper and TV news as the "cop killer."

On the run, but unable to immediately leave LA while arranging to get paid for a previous car theft, under the alias of Jack Burns, Lujack breaks into Monica's apartment and waits for her to return home. Monica discovers him naked in her bed and initially declines his advances but later has sex with him in the shower. Lujack attempts to convince Monica to abscond to Mexico with him. However, Monica is a star architectural student with big plans and reluctant. Lujack shows up at her college and intrudes on her presentation of a project to her professors, initially exasperating her, but he continues to pursue her, showing up in various stolen cars to offer her rides. He eventually wears down her defenses and she succumbs to his charms once again, although still ambivalent to his insistence on accompanying him to Mexico.

After Lujack's photograph appears in the newspaper, he is recognized on the street right after dropping Monica off at a groundbreaking ceremony downtown. The police find Monica and question her on the street but Monica, once again under Jesse’s spell, refuses to turn him in.  When the police start following her right before Lujack comes back to pick her up, she finally accepts his offer to flee to Mexico together.

On the way out of LA, Lujack and Monica stop in order for Jesse to repair his latest stolen car. Monica walks to a nearby store and finds that her picture is on the front page of the national newspaper alongside Lujack's. Realizing the impossibility of her romantic fantasy, Monica phones the police, but then returns to tell Lujack she did so. Jesse asks her if she loves him, and she says no. He laughs and says “liar”. He then runs up the road to meet an accomplice he has arranged to bring his payment for the previous car theft, who throws a gun to him as well, which Lujack refuses and allows to drop to the street. The police corner him in the road where Lujack sings "Breathless" to Monica while dancing around the gun at his feet. The film ends in a freeze-frame of Jesse scooping up the gun and turning to face the police.

####Breezy####
A young couple awakens in bed after a one-night stand. Edith Alice "Breezy" Breezerman hops out of bed, gets dressed, and steps into the daylight. Breezy lost her parents years before in a car accident; she lived with her aunt until she graduated from high school. A year later, she left for California, where she is a homeless, free-spirited, carefree hippie spending her nights couch surfing.

That same morning, Frank Harmon is bidding farewell to his overnight guest, a blonde who is attracted to him, but he only humors her as she leaves. Middle-aged, divorced and wealthy from his work in real estate, Frank lacks for nothing material, but has no joy in his life. He is still somewhat bitter about his divorce.

After escaping a bad hitchhiking experience with an unstable stranger, Breezy loiters near Frank's luxurious post-modern house, the setting for much of the movie. When he leaves for work, she invites herself into his car and happily insists that he give her a ride to her destination, annoying him.  She returns to his house that evening to retrieve her guitar that she left in his car earlier in the day.  She persuades him to let her shower, after the shower she tries to get him to invite her to stay the night, but he doesn't go for it.  She leaves even though it's raining.  The next night he's awakened by police at the door.  They found Breezy wandering around and she told them that Frank was her uncle and they had argued earlier.  After being chastised by the police they leave and he offers her something to eat. She begs for him to take her to the ocean and he does.  When they return from the Pacific he carries her in to the guest room as she feigns sleep. Before going to bed himself they have a heart-to-heart where she tells him that she loves him.  When he wakes he's surprised and disappointed to discover that she left without saying goodbye.  The next day when he comes home from work she's waiting for him by his door.  He invites her in but tells her he has to make an appearance at a friend's wedding reception and drop off the papers for the house the couple just bought from him.   He tells her she could stay and they make plans for his return.  He's much later than anticipated and he's disappointed that she doesn't appear to be there.  He gets ready for bed and when he's in his room, he sees her in his bed and they make love.  In the morning he's very upbeat and seems very happy.  At the breakfast table they get to know each other.  They spend the day together and he buys her some new clothes, then they go to dinner and run into his ex-wife.  She has some snarky things to say but they don't let it ruin their evening.  Another night they go see a movie and run into Frank's friend Bob who seems to always talk about wanting to cheat on his wife.  Frank is embarrassed and self conscious to be seen with Breezy.

He is conflicted about his feelings for longtime, close friend Betty Tobin. Finally, when he does awkwardly start to make them known to her, it is too late; Betty gently explains she is marrying a man she very much loves.

Frank's friend and workout buddy Bob Henderson is grappling with his own mid-life crisis. He is restless, but afraid to end his now-loveless marriage and face loneliness. Frank takes this into consideration, while still growing closer to Breezy.  Bob talks to Frank about Breezy in a sauna after some tennis. Bob reveals that there is no way he himself could embark on such a relationship, as he might feel like a "child molester". He has no intention of being insulting, and is in fact admiring Frank's defiance of society's disapproval, but Frank is not immune to the pressure. All of his shared joys with Breezy, such as their adopted stray dog and "us against the world" mentality, are not enough to enable him to cope with the age difference. He breaks up with her by telling her that they amount to a dirty joke.  She's the zing in his life and he's the best score she's probably ever made.  She starts crying but keeps her composure as she gets ready to leave. Tells him to keep the dog as she doesn't have enough money to feed him.

When Betty is injured and her new husband killed in a car accident, Frank visits her in the hospital and has a change of heart.  He drives to Marcy's house to learn where Breezy is.  Marcy tells him and he goes to the park to reconcile with her.  He reunites with Breezy, he tells her maybe they can last a year, and they walk off together with the dog, Sir Love-a-lot.

####A Bride for Henry####
Sheila Curtis's (Anne Nagel) fiancé Eric Reynolds (Henry Mollison) fails to appear for the wedding, so Sheila drafts her lawyer, Henry Tuttle (Warren Hull), to stand in for the missing groom. When Eric finally shows up after sleeping off the bachelor party, Shelia intends to get a quick divorce and marry him after the media attention dies down.  Although Henry has been in love with her for years, he gets fed up and spends his time on their honeymoon with his old girlfriend, wealthy Helen Van Orden (Claudia Dell), and a bevy of beauties.  Shelia soon gets jealous, and realizes that Eric will always be unreliable while it's Henry she's always counted on and loved, but it might be too late. She realizes she may have taken Henry for granted.

####The Bride of the Colorado####
Although the film was intended to be a drama with romantic interest during a transit of the Colorado River, a short film review in "Photoplay" magazine stated that the spectacle of the Colorado River with its rapids and the Grand Canyon where the lead of the picture, with the characters and plot "absolutely incidental" to the background scenery.

####Bridge to the Sun####
Gwen Harold, an American woman from Tennessee, meets Hidenari Terasaki (called Terry by his friends and family), the secretary to the Japanese ambassador, while attending a reception at the Japanese embassy in Washington D.C. with her Aunt Peggy and friend Bill. They share a moment while Terry is showing her the antique Japanese artworks on display in the embassy, and after some reluctance, she agrees to allow him to call on her.

They begin dating and they quickly fall in love, even though Terry occasionally has fits of anti-Western sentiment. When Terry asks her to marry him, she agrees, much to the chagrin of Aunt Peggy (who was raised in the Jim Crow South), and who sees the relationship as unnatural, especially when there are "nice clean young men" available. The Japanese ambassador also calls on Gwen and attempts to dissuade her from accepting, claiming that it would hurt Terry's career by giving him an American bias, and states that even though the two countries are friendly, anything could happen between foreign countries. He seems to hint at possible aggression in the future, even though it is only 1935 and the Japanese have not yet resumed conflicts with China, keeping the countries of Gwen and Terry at an uneasy peace. They eventually marry despite the obstacles and, when Terry is recalled, travel to Japan by ship.

Almost immediately after disembarking and arriving in Tokyo, Terry begins to treat Gwen much differently, expecting her to behave according to the male-centric beliefs of contemporary Japan, such as being silent among men, entering doors after the men and virtually bending to every whim of Terry and her male relatives. They continually fight and make up, mostly because of Gwen's outspokenness among men and Terry's strict adherence to the local customs.

After having a fight one night when a general says that Terry should be proud that he may have a son to die for the emperor, they make up and she reveals that she was so offended by the comment because she is pregnant. The baby daughter is named Mako.

By November 1941, Terry has been reassigned to the embassy in America. They have Thanksgiving dinner in Washington with Aunt Peggy, as World War II embroils the world around them and the U.S. is one of the few powers of the world still at peace. Terry speaks on the phone with his friend Haro. He mentions that Mako, now about five years old, has an apparent illness involving too many antibodies in her blood. He also mentions a possible upcoming invasion of Thailand by the Imperial Japanese Army.

Sensing that it may be the last chance for peace between the U.S. and the Empire of Japan, Terry attempts to go over the heads of his superiors and have a cable sent directly to President Roosevelt, alerting him to cable the Japanese emperor to seek to preserve the peace. However, the emperor is rapidly becoming the leader of Japan in name only because of a power struggle with the army leaders. Terry's effort is in vain, as December 7th comes and war is declared shortly after the Japanese attack.

Terry calls Gwen after hearing of the attack and tells her to leave Washington for Tennessee with Mako, but the FBI enter and force her to hang up the phone. She decides to accompany Terry back to Japan, as he is due to be deported in an ambassador exchange. A riot nearly occurs as she leaves with the other Japanese families, because of anti-Japanese fervor sweeping the nation in the aftermath of the attack on Pearl Harbor, the Philippines and other European and American-held colonies and bases in the Pacific and Asia.

In Japan, a similar nationalist anti-American hatred is present among the citizens. Terry is less enthusiastic about the war, and attempts to be a mediator for peace, which is dangerous because of the prevailing sentiment and the secret police. Gwen is briefly accosted by a group of soldiers, who try to force her to walk on an American flag. She refuses, and an air raid begins, causing panic in the streets as bombs begin to destroy the area. She sees a crying child and, remembering her daughter, runs to the smoldering school to rescue Mako, who says that children had hit her and called her an American.

Later, Terry reveals that he is under suspicion for being disloyal because he has an American wife, does not belong to any patriotic clubs, and speaks out against the war. Soldiers enter and search the house, and while they don't arrest him, it is clear that he and his family are going to have a rough time as long as they stay in Tokyo. They agree to stay at a friend's empty house outside of the city.

As they leave Tokyo, they run into Terry's cousin, Ishi, who has been one of the few people who has been kind to Gwen. Now a soldier, he informs them that he is captain in a "kamikaze" squadron, and will soon "die for a descendent of the sun-god." While taking a train, Gwen sees captured American soldiers, possibly on a death march. They arrive at their new home and meet the young girl who lives there. Terry reveals that he is going back to Tokyo, and that he did not tell her earlier because she would not have gone to stay without him. He offers to arrange her passage back to the U.S., but she refuses, wanting to be close to her husband.

As the war continues, food shortages and widespread damage make it clear that things are going against Japan. As the years go on, Terry visits less and less, and Mako grows up not knowing any other existence other than one of perpetual war. Terry returns after months and they enjoy a night's sleep together. They awaken to a visit from a military police officer, who is looking for Terry. As the war continues to turn against them, they begin to suspect disloyalty from anyone critical of the government. Gwen manages to convince them that she has not seen Terry, and they leave. Terry reveals that he has brought a radio, and an American news station announces the end of the Battle of Iwo Jima, which will be used as a base to launch bombers against mainland Japan. Later on, the surrender of Nazi Germany, Japan's main ally, is also announced, and it is clear that the invasion of Japan is coming soon.

Terry and Gwen have a fight one night because he gave away the last of their food. Gwen goes to the village to get her hair done to please her husband, and on her way home, she allows Mako to play in the village, but then a squadron of American bombers and fighters attack. The couple rush to find her, and amid the devastation of the village, they find Mako, alive and unhurt. However, her close friend has been hit and was killed instantly. At the burial, Gwen comments on Mako's jaded reaction, showing no tears or emotion for her friend, because of Japanese customs, as well as growing up during a war.

One night, Gwen visits Terry's old friend Hara, who has some power within the party, pleading for him to keep her husband safe. He introduces her to Tokyo Rose, a radio propaganda announcer who tries to lower the morale of enemy armies listening to her broadcasts. They agree to help Terry, but only if Gwen makes an anti-American speech on the radio, recognizing the propaganda value of an actual American denouncing her country. Gwen refuses, and learns that Ishi has been fatally injured and is in the hospital. She visits, and realizing that he is dying, she asks why he had sent his wife away. He reveals that it is because of tradition that he did not want his loved ones to see him die. She returns home in time to see Terry, who had been hiding in the hills to avoid arrest, return.

The next day, the entire village arrives at their house, as it is the only one with a radio, for the emperor's radio address. The emperor has never spoken in public before, so they realize he must have major news, possibly of a surrender. As the village listens to the emperor's voice for the first time, the speech starts:



With the war over, Terry asks Gwen to return to her home of Johnson City, Tennessee to put Mako in an American school while she is young and can lose her prejudices against America, to "become a bridge between the two nations." Gwen vehemently refuses to leave him. Later on, she finds Terry, who has been overworked, malnourished and ill for many months, standing over his parents' graves. She recalls a speech that he once gave her about visiting the graves of ancestors at times of marriage, birth, and death. She also recalls the conversation with Ishi at the hospital before his death when he said that he did not want his wife to see him die. She speaks to Terry's doctor and learns that he has, at most, months to live, and was trying to send his family away because, like his cousin, he didn't want them to see him die.

Days later, after Gwen agrees to Terry's final wish for her and Mako to depart for America, he sees her and their daughter off at the dock. They kiss and embrace for the last time, and Gwen reassures Terry that they will be expecting him soon, knowing that she will never see him again.

As the ship departs, Terry walks down the dock, keeping pace with it until he can go no further. The film ends with Gwen and Terry lovingly meeting each other's gaze for the final time. Gwen holds her composure until he is out of sight, and then breaks down and begins crying.

####The Bridges of Madison County####
In the present, adult siblings Michael and Carolyn Johnson arrive at the Iowa farmhouse of their recently deceased mother, Francesca, to settle her estate. They are shocked upon learning that Francesca requested to be cremated and her ashes scattered from Roseman Covered Bridge, rather than be buried next to her late husband, Richard.

Michael initially refuses, but while he and Carolyn look through the safe deposit box, they discover an envelope containing photographs, letters, and a key. The photos are of Francesca taken at the Holliwell Covered Bridge and the letters are from a man named Robert Kincaid. The key is to Francesca's locked hope chest. In it are three hardbound notebooks. There are also several "National Geographic" magazines, including one featuring Madison County's covered wooden bridges, old cameras, a book, and other mementos. The magazine includes a photo of Kincaid, who photographed the bridges; he is wearing Francesca's crucifix pendant.

As Michael and Carolyn begin reading Francesca's notebooks, the film flashes back to 1965. Francesca, a WWII Italian war bride, stays home while her husband and teenaged son and daughter attend the state fair for the next four days. Robert Kincaid, a "National Geographic" photojournalist on assignment to photograph the county's historic bridges, arrives at the Johnson farm, asking for directions to Roseman Bridge. Francesca rides along to show him the way. Their subsequent affair occurs over four days.

Francesca details the intense affair and its lasting influence on both her and Robert, hoping Michael and Carolyn will understand and honor her final request. Francesca and Robert fell deeply in love and nearly ran away together. Francesca, confined to a passionless marriage, was unable to abandon her teenage children and loyal husband. Though she loved Robert, she questioned whether their spontaneous relationship could survive over time. Robert, moved by their brief encounter, found renewed meaning in his life and true calling as an artist. Francesca's memories helped sustain her through the remaining years on the farm.

After her husband's death, Francesca attempted to contact Robert, but he had left "National Geographic" and his whereabouts were unknown. She later learned that Robert died about three years after her husband, and he left his belongings to her. His ashes were scattered from Roseman Bridge.

In the present, Michael and Carolyn, struggling with their own marriages, are deeply moved by their mother's story. They find new direction to their individual lives and carry out their mother's wishes to scatter her ashes at Roseman Bridge.

####Brief Moment####
Rodney Deane (Gene Raymond) is a rich playboy who falls in love with nightclub singer Abby Fane (Carole Lombard). Abby wants him to get a job, so he begins working for his father. She later finds out that he is not taking the work seriously and stills spends his days at the racetrack, so she leaves him. Rodney then changes his name and gets a real job. They are reunited by Abby's boss.

####Brigham Young####
The story begins in frontier-town Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1844. It follows the main body of the church as they are forced to leave Illinois, choosing to settle temporarily in Nebraska and then to travel by wagon train to the Great Basin. Much of the story's plot revolves around two of the group, Jonathan Kent and Zina Webb.

####Bright Victory####
During World War II, American sergeant Larry Nevins is blinded by a German sniper while fighting in North Africa. He is taken to a Pennsylvania hospital for other blinded soldiers, where he struggles to accept and come to terms with his disability.

Though initially despondent, Larry is taught to orient himself and walk through the grounds and in town by memorization and with use of a cane. He befriends Joe Morgan, another blinded veteran, and Judy, a local bank teller who volunteers by socializing with disabled soldiers.

One day, Larry, unaware that Joe is black, utters a racial slur, causing a rift between Larry and the others. Meanwhile, he progresses well in his recovery, passing a crucial test to see how well he can handle himself on the street. He is cleared for furlough, so Judy takes him to spend a weekend at her sister's nearby cabin, where he goes fishing and is entertained by her family.

From Judy's brother-in-law, Larry learns of a very successful blind lawyer, giving him hope for the future. After dinner, Judy reveals her love for him. Larry tells her that he needs more security and family support and already has a fiancée in his Florida hometown. Somewhat dispirited, he goes home and has a rough time dealing with the racial attitudes of his Southern parents and friends. His fiancée's family is having doubts about his fitness as a son-in-law, and his parents are downcast because of his disability.

Larry is happy to see his fiancée Chris, though he still thinks of Judy. After a bad experience at his homecoming party, he tells Chris the difficulties that they can expect with his disability, and that he wants to relocate rather than be patronized with the menial local job that her successful father has offered him.  After some thought, Chris tells Larry that she does not feel strong enough to marry and move far away with him while he struggles to make a new life for both of them.

Returning to the hospital, Larry takes a side trip to Philadelphia and meets the successful blind lawyer played by Frank Wilcox. The lawyer tells him that life is difficult but worth it and that his wife was an invaluable helper to him in his career.

At the train station en route to begin a more advanced rehabilitation course, Larry is unexpectedly reunited with Judy. They joyfully declare their mutual love.

Boarding the train, he hears Joe Morgan's name called. He catches Joe's arm, apologizes for all the hurt he has caused and asks if they can be friends; Joe accepts the apology. They board and sit together as the train pulls out of the station.

####Broadway Madness####
A young farmer in upstate New York City becomes obsessed with a Broadway actress due to her radio broadcasts. She later becomes involved in a plot to defraud him of his inheritance, but instead falls in love and confesses everything to him.

####Brokeback Mountain####
In Wyoming in 1963, cowboys Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist are hired by foreman Joe Aguirre to herd his sheep through the summer on grazing pastures on Brokeback Mountain. After a night of heavy drinking, Jack makes a pass at Ennis. While initially reluctant, Ennis becomes receptive, and he and Jack have sex in their tent. Despite Ennis telling Jack that it was a one-time incident, they develop a sexual and emotional relationship. Before parting ways, Ennis and Jack have a brawl that leaves both of them bloodied. Ennis later marries his longtime fiancée Alma Beers and has two daughters with her–Alma Jr. and Jenny. Jack returns the next summer seeking work, but Aguirre, who had observed Jack and Ennis on the mountain, refuses to hire him again. Jack moves to Texas, where he meets wealthy rodeo rider Lureen Newsome; they marry and have a son.

After four years apart, Jack visits Ennis. Upon meeting, the two passionately kiss, which a stunned Alma inadvertently witnesses. Jack broaches the subject of creating a life with Ennis on a ranch, but Ennis refuses, as he is unwilling to abandon his family and is haunted by a childhood memory of his father showing him the body of a man who was tortured and killed for suspected homosexuality. Ennis and Jack continue to infrequently meet for fishing trips while their respective marriages deteriorate. Lureen abandons the rodeo and goes into business with her father, which causes Jack to work in sales. Alma and Ennis divorce in 1975. Upon hearing about the divorce, Jack drives to Wyoming and tells Ennis that they should live together, but Ennis refuses to move away from his children. Upset, Jack finds solace with male sex workers in Mexico.

Alma takes custody of Alma Jr. and Jenny and marries Monroe, her store manager. She eventually confronts Ennis when he visits about the true nature of his relationship with Jack; the two spar, causing Ennis to cease contact with Alma. Ennis has a short-lived romantic relationship with a waitress named Cassie. Jack and Lureen befriend another couple, Randall and Lashawn Malone, and it is implied that Jack and Randall have a brief affair. At the end of a fishing trip, Ennis tells Jack that he cannot see him again before November due to work demands. The pair argue, blaming each other for their not being together. Ennis begins to cry, and Jack embraces him.

Sometime later, Ennis receives a returned postcard that he had sent to Jack, stamped with "Deceased". He calls Lureen, who says that Jack died in an accident from drowning in his own blood after a car tire exploded in his face. While she is describing what happened, Ennis envisions Jack being brutally beaten to death with a tire iron. After Lureen tells him that Jack wanted to have his ashes scattered on Brokeback Mountain, Ennis visits Jack's parents in hopes of carrying out the request. Jack's father refuses and contends that Jack's ashes will be interred in a family plot. Ennis goes to Jack's bedroom, where he finds the shirts the two wore during their brawl, his shirt inside Jack's, in the closet. Ennis holds the shirts to his face, inhales deeply, and silently weeps. Jack's mother allows him to keep the shirts.

Later, a 19-year-old Alma Jr. arrives at Ennis's trailer to tell him that she is engaged. She asks for his blessing and invites him to the wedding, and after some hesitation, he agrees to attend. Once Alma Jr. leaves, Ennis goes to the closet where the two shirts hang together, though now Ennis's shirt is outermost. Next to them, tacked to the closet door, is a postcard of Brokeback Mountain. With tears in his eyes, he stares at the mementos, and says, "Jack, I swear..."

####Broken Blossoms####
Cheng Huan leaves his native China because he "dreams to spread the gentle message of Buddha to the Anglo-Saxon lands." His idealism fades as he is faced with the brutal reality of London's gritty inner-city. However, his mission is finally realized in his devotion to the "broken blossom" Lucy Burrows, the beautiful but unwanted and abused daughter of boxer Battling Burrows.

After being beaten and discarded one evening by her raging father, Lucy finds sanctuary in Cheng's home, the beautiful and exotic room above his shop. As Cheng nurses Lucy back to health, the two form a bond as two unwanted outcasts of society. All goes astray for them when Lucy's father gets wind of his daughter's whereabouts and in a drunken rage drags her back to their home to punish her. Fearing for her life, Lucy locks herself inside a closet to escape her contemptuous father.

By the time Cheng arrives to rescue Lucy, whom he so innocently adores, it is too late. Lucy's lifeless body lies on her modest bed as Battling has a drink in the other room. As Cheng gazes at Lucy's youthful face which, in spite of the circumstances, beams with innocence and even the slightest hint of a smile, Battling enters the room to make his escape. The two stand for a long while, exchanging spiteful glances, until Battling lunges for Cheng with a hatchet, and Cheng retaliates by shooting Burrows repeatedly with his handgun. After returning to his home with Lucy's body, Cheng builds a shrine to Buddha and takes his own life with a knife to the chest.

####Broken Chains####
Wealthy Peter Wyndham is useless in attempting to prevent the theft of Hortense Allen's jewelry. A butler is killed during the robbery, and unable to face his cowardice, Peter heads west. He takes a job working for his father's lumber mill. Meanwhile, elsewhere Mercy Boone's newborn child has died. Boyan Boone, her husband is callous towards the loss. He is a thug, and ne'er-do-well with a band of thieves working with him. When Mercy attempts to escape she meets Peter before Boyan returns her to his cabin where he chains her. Peter finds her and they begin a romance under Boyan's nose. Boyan learns and beats up Peter, who summons the strength to fight him for the honor of Mercy.

####Broken English####
Partly subtitled, the film follows the story of Sarah, who comes under fire from her family, friends and colleagues when she marries an African man, Maas. When she discovers that Maas is part of an underground group of South African freedom fighters, she must analyze her own political and sexual beliefs.

####Brown Sugar####
Childhood friends Sidney (Sanaa Lathan) and Dre (Taye Diggs), who originally bonded over their love of hip-hop, face an evolving relationship as adults. Sidney has just been appointed the editor-in-chief of the hip hop magazine "XXL", and Dre is an A&R for Millennium Records. While Sidney's career is flourishing, Dre is increasingly frustrated with his label's preference for marketable artists over true talent.

Dre meets and falls in love with Reese (Nicole Ari Parker), a successful entertainment attorney, and soon becomes engaged to her.  The night before Dre's wedding, he and Sidney kiss and almost have sex, but they stop themselves. At the wedding, Sidney's cousin Francine (Queen Latifah) deduces the romantic tension between Sidney and Dre and encourages her to object during the ceremony. She does not and Dre settles into married life with Reese. Sidney, meanwhile, begins dating professional athlete Kelby Dawson (Boris Kodjoe).

Dre sees Cavi (Mos Def), a rapper who works as a taxi driver during the day, perform and is impressed with his talent, but Cavi isn't interested in signing with Dre's label because he doesn't like the music they produce. Dre's boss meanwhile pushes him to manage an untalented but commercially viable rap group, forcing him to choose between his income and his love of hip hop. He decides to quit and form his own label, focusing on bringing back the real hip hop that his generation fell in love with, and manages to sign Cavi.

Reese is unsupportive of Dre's new business venture, concerned it will fail and they will be forced to live in reduced circumstances. Meanwhile, Sidney draws closer to Dre due to their partnership in the label, and Reese develops jealousy over Dre and Sidney's friendship, while Cavi falls for Francine but struggles to muster the courage to ask her out.

Sidney also grows closer to Kelby, who proposes to her. Dre tells her he's against her marrying Kelby because he thinks he's inauthentic. Sidney doesn't agree, but begins to have doubts when she discovers that Kelby doesn't read her articles.

When Dre discovers Reese has been cheating with a man from the gym, he brings Sid to catch her in the act. This leads to a night of shared passion between Dre and Sid and opens Sid's eyes to the fact she is not prepared to marry Kelby. She calls off the engagement and while searching for Dre sees Reese and Dre in a parting embrace that she misconstrues as more.

While at Hot 97 waiting for Cavi's first single to play on the Angie Martinez show, Dre hears Sid talking about her new book "I Used to Love H.I.M." Though based on her love affair with hip-hop, it really is a chronicled timeline of her love affair with Dre. He recognizes this and rushes over to the station to confront his feelings, as well. Meanwhile, in the production booth, Cavi stumbles in trying to ask Francine out again. She recognizes their attraction and asks him out on a date.

The film ends with Cavi's song playing in the same park where their love of hip-hop began.

####Burlesque####
Alice "Ali" Marilyn Rose (Christina Aguilera) is a young waitress from Iowa who dreams of becoming a professional dancer following her mother's death during childhood.

After her selfish boss refuses salary, Ali steals from him and moves to Los Angeles. There Ali attends multiple auditions with little success. One night, Ali comes across a burlesque club where Tess Scali (Cher), the club's owner, and an entourage of dancers perform an opening number. Ali also meets songwriter Jack Miller (Cam Gigandet) at the club's bar. Jack refers her to Tess for an audition but she is told to come back another time and ushered out by her assistant Sean (Stanley Tucci). Upon seeing the waitress shortage, Ali picks up a tray and begins serving. As a result, she manages to get a job as a waitress at the club.

When Georgia (Julianne Hough), one of the leading dancers, becomes pregnant, auditions are held in search of a replacement to fill her role. Ali performs a difficult dance routine and eventually persuades Tess to hire her. This, however, infuriates Nikki (Kristen Bell), a lead performer struggling with alcoholism.

Ali replaces Nikki one night to host a performance after the latter is too intoxicated to perform. In a fit of rage, Nikki sabotages the performance by turning off the music that the dancers usually lip sync to until Ali impresses everyone with her singing skills. Her performance is an instant success to which Tess casts her in an upcoming show. Despite the club's growing popularity, Tess struggles with a bank loan having a lien on her ownership rights of the building.

One night after the club closes, Tess grows increasingly worried about her finances before a drunken Nikki shows up, accusing Tess of rejecting their long friendship. In defense of Ali, Tess questions Nikki's gratitude for the help she has received during her binges. In retaliation, a furious Nikki quits after she reveals to have slept with Tess' ex-husband Vince (Peter Gallagher). Tess then angrily smashes the passenger side window on Nikki's convertible with a crowbar after she leaves.

Meanwhile, Ali and Jack become romantically attracted. However, Jack is already engaged to Natalie (Dianna Agron), an actress working in New York City. Sean encourages Jack to end the engagement, as Ali is a better person than his shallow fiancée. Marcus (Eric Dane), a wealthy clubgoer, becomes infatuated with Ali, who begins spending time with him, making Jack jealous. At Georgia's wedding, Jack appears to call off his engagement and becomes drunk. That night, Ali and Jack sleep together, beginning an affair. In the morning, Natalie unexpectedly returns from New York and finds the two in bed together. Natalie angrily insists she and Jack never broke up though the latter denies this but asks Ali to leave. Feeling heartbroken and betrayed, Ali runs to Sean for support, also learning that Sean is gay. Marcus calls Ali, and Sean prompts her to go out with him.

Ali learns that Marcus is interested in the "air rights" above the club; he hopes to build a skyscraper on the property. Distraught, Ali breaks off her relationship with Marcus. She later tells Tess about his plan, and they inform the owner (James Brolin) of new million-dollar condos being sold across the street. Fearing the obstruction of his prospective purchasers' view, he buys the air rights to the club's property from Tess. She then uses the money to buy out Vince's share, pay off the bank, and redecorate the club in her own vision. Later, a sobered Nikki admits that she lied about sleeping with Vince out of anger, and Tess rehires her.

Ali rekindles her relationship with Jack after he tells her about breaking up with Natalie, as she cared more about her job than her relationship with him. Having earned Nikki's respect, Ali performs "Show Me How You Burlesque", a song written by Jack, with all of the dancers on stage, delighting the crowd.

####Buster and Billie####
In a small Georgia town in 1948, Buster Lane (Jan-Michael Vincent) is a handsome, popular high-school senior, who is engaged to be married to his pretty, popular high-school sweetheart Margie Hooks (Pamela Sue Martin). He is the 'big man on campus' and the leader of his group of friends.

Buster's friends often visit a girl from an underprivileged background named Billie-Jo Truluck (Joan Goodfellow), who dourly gives them the sexual favors they want. Meanwhile, Buster becomes disenchanted with Margie's refusal to have sex with him, and begins seeing Billie in secret.

At first he sees Billie just for sex but eventually finds himself falling in love with her. He becomes, in fact, so taken with Billie that he breaks off his engagement with Margie and starts appearing in public with Billie, who finds a new lease on life with Buster. They are happy for the first time in their lives. Happiness for them, though, is short-lived.

Buster's friends are extremely jealous that they cannot have Billie for their own use anymore and corner her not a typo|one day when they are drunk and find her out walking. When she refuses to submit to them, they rape and kill her in the heat of the moment. Buster eventually finds her dead, and is hysterical. He then goes to the pool hall where his friends are, with the guilt evident on the faces of the main perpetrators of the crime.

Enraged, Buster kills two of them, while injuring the other two. He is put into jail for this, but is released on bail the day after her funeral, which no one attends except his parents. He rips up a truckload of flowers from garden beds in the town, and takes these flowers to Billie's graveside.

####By Hook or by Crook####
Shy, a transgender man, leaves his small town in Kansas for San Francisco after the death of his father. Along the way, he encounters Valentine, a quirky adoptee in search of his birth mother. An immediate kinship is sparked between the two men and they become partners in crime with Val’s lover Billie to stay financially afloat. The duo faces money troubles, emotional problems, and physical confrontations as they learn to trust and support each other in pursuit of their goals.

####By Love Possessed####
In a Massachusetts law firm, Arthur Winner, Julius Penrose and Noah Tuttle are equal partners. Each has an ongoing problem in his personal life.

Clarissa, married to Arthur, feels unloved. Marjorie feels unsatisfied because her husband, Julius, has been crippled and depressed since a car crash and believes his wife no longer finds him desirable. This leads to a romantic affair between Marjorie and Arthur.

Warren Winner, irresponsible son of Arthur, is expected to marry Noah's wealthy ward, Helen Detweiler, but he is not in love with her. Warren instead loses himself in a fling with a prostitute, Veronica Kovacs, who angrily reacts to his ending their relationship by accusing him of rape. Warren flees rather than face the charges in court. Helen is so distraught, she commits suicide.

The firm has represented Helen's financial affairs, but when Arthur looks into it, he discovers that Noah has embezzled $60,000 from Helen's account (although for a worthy cause: to keep the town's struggling streetcar operation afloat). One by one, everyone is confronted about owing up to their responsibilities, beginning with Warren, who on Marjorie's advice turns himself in to the law to fight the accusations against him.

####By the Sea####
In the 1960s, in France, an American couple, former dancer Vanessa and her husband Roland, a successful writer, have been married for 14 years. They drive to a coastal hotel. Roland wants to write a story while staying there. The two are barely on speaking terms; Vanessa is withdrawn and grieving for an unknown reason. Roland appears to drink too much and seems unhappy that Vanessa is no longer interested in him sexually.

Roland becomes friendly with the local cafe owner, an older man still grieving his much-loved late wife, but who carries on, cheerfully accepting what life has given him. Vanessa watches a local fisherman who goes out every day on the outgoing tide and returns on the incoming one, catching few fish, but contented.

Vanessa and Roland strike up a friendship with an attractive young couple staying in the room next to them. Soon after, they discover that the wall between their two rooms has a disused radiator pipe hole, enabling them to watch the couple in their bedroom talking and having sex.

Gradually their experiences at the hotel enable Vanessa and Roland to start patching up their relationship. However, Vanessa attempts a liaison with the young husband in the next room, interrupted violently by Roland, who has been watching through the wall. He bruises the husband, who must later explain to his wife and does so truthfully, seriously damaging the relationship between the young couple. This also triggers a confrontation between Vanessa and Roland, during which he tells her that if she wishes to hurt him, she should just go ahead and hurt him physically. Roland asserts that her seduction of the husband was motivated by his wife's envy of the young couple - particularly of their ability to bear children. Roland physically restrains Vanessa against a wall and makes her speak of herself being barren which they haven't been able to talk about. After a short struggle, Vanessa breaks down and weeps for her loss. Later, Roland explains to the young wife that two miscarriages caused Vanessa's lasting grief, withdrawal and behavior toward her husband.

Having finally come to terms with their life together, Vanessa seems able to go on and Roland is able to finish writing a new book. It seems also that the young couple next door may be able to work their way through the episode as well, and come out stronger on the other side.

As Vanessa and Roland leave the hotel and drive away, they appear to be reconciled.

####Call Me by Your Name####
In the summer of 1983, Elio Perlman, a 17-year-old Jewish Italo-French boy, lives with his parents in rural Northern Italy. Elio's father, a professor of archaeology, invites a 24-year-old Jewish American graduate student, Oliver, to live with the family over the summer and help with his academic paperwork. Elio, an introspective bibliophile and a musician, initially thinks he has little in common with Oliver, who appears confident and carefree. Elio spends much of the summer reading, playing piano, and hanging out with his childhood friends, Chiara and Marzia. During a volleyball match, Oliver touches Elio's back but Elio brushes it off. However, Elio later finds himself jealous upon seeing Oliver pursue Chiara.

Elio and Oliver spend more time together, going for long walks into town, and accompanying Elio's father on an archaeological trip. Elio is increasingly drawn to Oliver, even sneaking to Oliver's room to smell his clothing. Elio eventually confesses his feelings to Oliver, who tells him they cannot discuss such things. Later, in a secluded spot, the two kiss for the first time. Oliver is reluctant to take things further, and they do not speak for several days.

Elio goes on a date with Marzia and the two have sex. Elio leaves a note for Oliver to end their silence. Oliver writes back, asking Elio to meet him at midnight. Elio agrees and they sleep together for the first time. Afterward, Oliver says to Elio, "Call me by your name and I'll call you by mine". The morning after, Elio is briefly conflicted about their encounter and takes out his sexual frustration by masturbating with a peach. When Oliver finds him, Elio cries about how little time he and Oliver have left together. Marzia confronts Elio after not hearing from him for three days. He responds coldly, hurting her.

As the end of Oliver's stay approaches, Elio's parents, who appear to be aware of the bond between the two, recommend that he and Oliver visit Bergamo together before Oliver returns to the U.S. They spend three romantic days together. Elio, heartbroken after Oliver's departure, calls his mother and asks her to pick him up from the train station and take him home. Marzia is sympathetic to Elio's feelings and says she wants to remain friends. Elio's father, observing his deep sadness, tells him he was aware of his relationship with Oliver and urges Elio to learn from his grief and grow instead of pushing aside his feelings and moving on too quickly.

During Hanukkah, Oliver calls Elio's family to tell them he is engaged to be married to a woman he has been seeing for a few years. An upset Elio calls Oliver by his name and Oliver responds with his; Oliver also says that he remembers everything. After the call, Elio sits down by the fireplace and stares into the flames, tearfully reflecting, as his parents and staff prepare the holiday dinner.

####Camille####
A young law student, Armand (Rudolph Valentino) becomes smitten with a courtesan, Marguerite (Alla Nazimova). Marguerite is constantly surrounded by suitors, whom she entertains at her lavish apartment.  She also has consumption and is frequently beset by bouts of illness.

Armand sees Marguerite at the opera and, later, pursues her when he attends one of her private parties.  She rejects his advances at first, but eventually returns his affection.

The two live happily together until Armand's father, seeking to protect his family's reputation, convinces Marguerite to end the relationship.  She finally relents and runs away to a wealthy client, leaving a note for Armand.

When Armand finds the note he is shattered. The sorrow eventually turns to rage, and he decides to plunge into Parisian nightlife, associating himself with Olympe, another courtesan.  When he sees Marguerite at a casino, he publicly denounces her.

Marguerite gives up her life as a courtesan and quickly finds herself in massive debt. Her illness also takes a heavy toll.  Eventually, as she lies dying in bed, her furniture and belongings are repossessed. She persuades the men taking her belongings to allow her to keep her most precious possession: a book - Manon Lescaut - Armand gave to her.

Marguerite dies lying in bed in her apartment holding the book Armand gave her,  wishing to sleep where she is happy dreaming about Armand. Marguerite's maid Nanine, and her newlywed friends Gaston and Nichette are at her bedside as she dies.  Unlike the original novel, the film does not depict Armand and Marguerite ever seeing each other again after the casino scene and offers no suggestion that Armand ever learned of Marguerite's sacrifice and true feelings for him.

####Camille####
Beautiful Marguerite Gautier is a well-known courtesan, living in the demi-monde of mid-19th century Paris. Marguerite's dressmaker and procuress, Prudence Duvernoy, arranges an assignation at the theatre with a fabulously wealthy prospective patron, the Baron de Varville. Marguerite briefly mistakes Armand Duval, a handsome young man of good family but no great fortune, for the baron. She finds Armand charming, but when the mistake is explained, she accepts the baron without hesitation.

Marguerite spends money carelessly, sometimes out of generosity, as when she bids a fortune on a team of horses in order to give an old coachman employment, but more often because she loves her lavish lifestyle and the late nights of dancing and drinking—and because she knows her days are numbered. She has consumption, which is a death sentence for anyone who lives as she does. She has bouts of severe illness, and during one spell, the only person who come to see her is Armand, bearing flowers (the baron contriving to be in England). She finds this out after she recovers, and she invites him to her birthday party (the baron having just departed for a long stay in Russia). During the party, Marguerite retreats into the bedroom with a coughing spell, and Armand follows. He professes his love for her, which is something she has never known. She gives him a key and tells him to send everyone home and come back later. While she is waiting for him, the baron returns unexpectedly. She orders Nanine, her maid, to shoot the bolt on the door. The baron, who is clearly suspicious, plays the piano furiously, not quite masking the bell. He asks who might be at the door and, laughing, she says, "The great romance of my life—That might have been."

At Armand's family home in the country, he asks his father for money to travel to prepare for his career in the Foreign Service. He sends Marguerite a scathing letter (he saw the baron's carriage), but when she comes to his rooms, they reconcile immediately. She sees a miniature of his mother and is amazed to learn that his parents have loved each other for 30 years. "You'll never love me 30 years," she says, sadly. "I'll love you all my life," he replies. He wants to take her to the country for the summer to get well. She tells him to forget her, but agrees in the end. However, she owes 40,000 francs. The baron gives her the money as a parting gift, and slaps her in the face when she kisses him in thanks.

Armand takes her to a house in the country, where Marguerite thrives on fresh milk and eggs and country walks and love. A shadow is cast by the discovery that the baron's château is in the neighborhood. Marguerite tells him she has asked Prudence to sell everything, pay everything. Armand asks her to marry him, but she declines.

Armand's father, though he acknowledges  Marguerite's love is real, begs her to turn away from his son, knowing her past will ruin his chances. When Armand returns to the house, she is cold and dismissive and tells him the baron is expecting her. He watches her walk over the hill.

Back in Paris, at a gambling club, Armand comes face to face with the baron and Marguerite, who is ill. Armand wins a fortune from the baron at baccarat and begs Marguerite to come with him. She lies and says she loves the baron. Armand wounds the baron in a duel and must leave the country for six months. When he returns, Marguerite's illness has worsened. "Perhaps it's better if I live in your heart, where the world can't see me," she says. She dies in his arms.

####The Canadian####
A couple undergo hardship homesteading in Alberta, where they are plagued by bad weather and financial woes.

####The Captive####
"The Captive" chronicles the life of a young woman named Sonia Martinovitch (Blanche Sweet) who lived during the midst of the Balkan Wars. She lives close to the Turkish border on a small farm in Montenegro with her older brother Marko Martinovich (Page Peters) and younger brother Milo (Gerald Ward). Nearby, a Turkish nobleman by the name of Mahmud Hassan (House Peters) lives in a lavish palace. Marko is killed in the Battle of Lüleburgaz, leaving Martinovich and Milo helpless. Subsequently, Hassan is taken prisoner, and assigned to the Martinovich's farm to help with the chores Sonia is unable to complete without her brother.

At first, Sonia holds Hassan captive with the use of her bullwhip Gradually, Sonia warms up to him and they fall deeply in love.

The war wages on, and the Ottomans recapture the village where Sonia, Hassan and Milo live. A drunken officer (William Elmer) tries to force himself on Martinovich, but she refuses. Fueled by love, Hassan intervenes, despite the fact that the officer is Turkish. When the Ottoman army is driven out of the village, Hassan returns home to find that he has been stripped of his title, his land has been taken, and he has been banished from his homeland, all for thwarting the drunken officer's attack on Sonia. Meanwhile, at the farm, a pack of unruly scavengers have burned the Martinovich family's modest house, forcing them to abandon their home. The siblings meet Hassan on the road, and the lovebirds and Milo walk off to begin a new life together.

####The Careless Years####
Two high school seniors from different social groups go on a date. He begins to fall for her when she resists his amorous advances and decides they should get married immediately. Both sets of parents object to the sudden nature of the proposal. He talks her into going to Mexico to get married, but they decide it is best to wait until they are older.

####Carmen Jones####
Set during World War II, the story focuses on Carmen Jones, a "shameless vixen" who works in a parachute factory in North Carolina. When she is arrested for fighting with a co-worker who reported her for arriving late for work, the leader of the Army guards, Sgt. Brown, assigns handsome Corporal Joe to deliver her to the civilian authorities over 50 miles away. This is much to the dismay of Joe's fiancée Cindy Lou, who had agreed to marry him during his leave prior to his reporting for flight school and an eventual officer's commission.

While en route, Joe wishes to deliver his prisoner as soon as possible to return to Cindy Lou and his leave. He decides to save time by taking his jeep over a road warned unsuitable for motor vehicles that is half the distance to the town where he is taking Carmen. Carmen suggests she and Joe stop for a meal and a little romance, and his refusal intensifies her determination to seduce him. Their army jeep ends up hopelessly stuck in a river. Carmen suggests they spend the night at her grandmother's house nearby and continue their journey by train the following day, and that night Joe succumbs to Carmen's advances. The next morning he awakens to find a note in which she says although she loves him, she is unable to deal with time in jail and is running away.

Joe is demoted to private and locked in the stockade for allowing his prisoner to escape. Cindy Lou arrives for a visit just as a rose from Carmen is delivered to him, prompting her to leave abruptly. Having found work in a Louisiana nightclub, Carmen awaits his release. One night champion prizefighter Husky Miller enters with an entourage and introduces himself to Carmen, who expresses no interest in him. Husky orders his manager Rum Daniels to offer her jewelry, furs, and an expensive hotel suite if she and her friends Frankie and Myrt accompany him to Chicago, but she declines the offer. Just then, Joe arrives and announces he must report to flying school immediately. Angered, Carmen decides to leave with Sgt. Brown, who also has appeared on the scene, and Joe severely beats him. Realizing he will be sentenced to a long prison term for hitting his superior, Joe flees on a train to Chicago with Carmen.

Tired of being cooped up in a shabby rented room, Carmen gets dressed and leaves under the guise of buying groceries. Since he can't leave the room at all lest he be arrested, Joe questions her. Carmen becomes annoyed and tells him that she does what she wants. Carmen goes to Husky Miller's gym to ask Frankie for a loan, saying that although she has clothes, furs and diamonds, she has no actual cash. Frankie tries to convince Carmen to sit in Husky's corner so they all can be well taken care of, but Carmen is in love and refuses to double time Joe. Husky believes she is back to finally be with him, but she refuses his advances before leaving, so he tells his entire entourage that they are cut off financially until they produce Carmen (whom he nicknames Heatwave). Carmen pawns a piece of jewelry so she can buy groceries before returning to the room. When she returns not only with a bag of groceries but a new dress and shoes, Joe questions how she paid for them. Offended that he is accusing her of cheating, she argues with him and goes to Husky's hotel suite dressed in her new clothes to spend time with her friends. Frankie begins to tell fortunes by drawing cards. Carmen takes it all lightly until she draws the nine of spades. She interprets it as a premonition of her impending death and chooses to enjoy the rest of her life no matter how long it is.

Cindy Lou arrives at Husky's gym in search of Carmen since she is the only one who knows where Joe is. Frankie tells her to give up on Joe because he is nothing but trouble. An angry Joe arrives, having evaded capture and intent on getting Carmen back. Although Cindy Lou is present, he ignores her while ordering Carmen to leave with him. Husky intervenes and he is threatened by a concealed knife Joe has brought with him. Husky's people try to get him to stand down due to his fighting prowess, but can't since Joe won't stop. Joe is hit with a few blows before Carmen helps him get away. Joe asks why if she no longer loves him, but she reveals it's because she can't bear to see anyone cooped up. She tells Cindy Lou to go home and find someone worthy of her. After leaving, Cindy Lou tells herself how silly it is trying to save a man who not only doesn't love her but has left her for another woman.

Joe escapes the Military Police and attends Husky's big fight. Dressed to the nines, Carmen, her friends and Husky's entourage escort Husky to the ring. He falters in the first round, but comes back to beat his opponent in the second. Husky runs to Carmen's loving arms after winning, but they are parted after he is put up on his entourage's shoulders. Joe grabs Carmen as she is following Husky to his dressing room and pulls her into a storage room, where he begs her to return to him. Angry that she has moved on, he claims he should have killed her. In a matter-of-fact manner, she tells him that what they had is over and there is no going back for them. When Carmen continues to rebuff him and says he needs to kill her or let her go, Joe strangles her to death. A janitor finds him as he goes to alert the military police. He realizes he is now going to die for committing murder.

####Carol####
During the Christmas season of 1952, aspiring photographer Therese Belivet is working in Frankenberg's department store in Manhattan. She meets a glamorous woman, Carol Aird, who is searching for a doll for her daughter, Rindy. At Therese's recommendation, Carol purchases a model train set instead. When Carol departs, she leaves her gloves on the counter. Therese mails them to her using Frankenberg's sales slip with Carol's name and address.

Therese's boyfriend, Richard, wants her to go to France with him, hoping they will marry, but she is ambivalent about their relationship. A common friend, Dannie, invites Therese to his workplace, "The New York Times", and offers to introduce her to a photo editor friend. Meanwhile, Carol is going through a difficult divorce from her husband, Harge. Carol calls Frankenberg's to thank the clerk who returned the gloves and invites Therese to lunch. Therese visits Dannie and he kisses her, but she becomes uncomfortable and leaves.

Carol invites Therese to her home in New Jersey. She stops to purchase a Christmas tree, and Therese takes candid photographs of her. Harge arrives unexpectedly to take Rindy to Florida for Christmas; he becomes suspicious of Therese, as Carol had an affair years before with her friend Abby. Therese witnesses their argument. After Rindy leaves, a distressed Carol takes Therese to the train station so she can return home.

Carol calls to apologize to Therese and they meet at her apartment, where Carol surprises her with a suitcase containing a gift of a Canon camera and film. Carol has learned that Harge is petitioning the judge to consider a "morality clause" against her, threatening to expose her homosexuality and give him full custody of Rindy. She decides to take a road trip to escape the stress of the divorce proceedings and invites Therese to join her. Richard accuses Therese of being infatuated with Carol and predicts Carol will soon tire of her. The two argue and their relationship comes to an end. On the second night of the trip, Therese meets a traveling salesman, Tommy Tucker.

On New Year's Eve, Carol and Therese kiss for the first time and have sex. The next morning, they discover that Tucker is actually a private investigator Harge hired to obtain evidence against Carol. Carol confronts Tucker, threatening him at gunpoint, but he claims to have already sent tape recordings to Harge. Carol and Therese turn back. The next day, in Chicago, Therese learns that Carol has flown home to fight for custody of her daughter, having asked Abby to drive Therese home. Abby gives her a letter from Carol. Back at home, Therese telephones Carol, but knowing that she risks losing custody of Rindy if she continues her relationship with Therese, Carol hangs up.

Therese creates a portfolio of her photographs and gets a job at "The New York Times". In the meantime, Carol has been seeing a psychotherapist as a condition of the divorce settlement. During a confrontational meeting in mid-April with divorce lawyers, Carol suddenly admits to the truth of what the tapes contain and refuses to deny her sexuality. To avoid going to court and the likelihood of a public scandal, she tells Harge that he can have custody of Rindy if he allows her regular visits.

Carol writes to Therese, and they meet in the lounge of the Ritz Tower Hotel. Carol reveals she is going to work for a furniture house and has taken an apartment on Madison Avenue. Therese declines Carol's invitation to live with her. Carol tells Therese that she is meeting associates in the Oak Room, and that if she changes her mind, they can have dinner. Therese remains still and Carol says, "I love you." They are interrupted by Jack, a colleague who has not seen Therese in months, and Carol departs.

Therese accepts Jack's ride to a party, but finds she cannot connect with anyone. She leaves for the Oak Room. She scans the diners and sees Carol at a table. Therese hesitates, then walks toward Carol. Their eyes meet. Carol gazes at Therese with a smile that slowly grows.

####Carolina Moon####
Young Tory Bodeen (Forlani) is blessed - or maybe cursed - with clairvoyance. Her childhood best friend, Hope, is murdered and she leaves town. Years later she returns to open a retail store. Tory's father, an abusive religious fanatic and ex-con remains the prime suspect in the unsolved murder. Her mother is a weak enabler, believing her husband is a good man, and that Tory is evil due to her paranormal abilities.

As the anniversary of Hope's death approaches, Tory resolves to face her demons, with the help of her childhood friends—Tory's cousin Wade (Willett), Hope's twin sister Faith (Davis), and the twins' older brother Cade (Hudson), who realizes his childhood crush on Tory hasn't ended. Will her friends be enough to save Tory?

####Carried Away####
Joseph Svenden is a middle-aged schoolteacher who lives on a farm with his dying mother. In his simple life there is no excitement, even in his long-time relationship with a widow. However, when a 17-year-old beauty enrolls in his class, life takes an unexpected turn. She boards her horse in his barn and she then seduces him. They carry on a furtive relationship which leaves him torn between the passion, and knowing that he is doing something wrong. When her indiscretion starts the inevitable scandal, many different reactions ensue.

####Carving a Life####
Mitch (Tyler Bruhn), a woodworker struggling with alcoholism after the death of his mother, begins a relationship with Lauren (Karenssa LeGear), a local elementary schoolteacher. His past trauma and difficult relationship with his father strains his romantic relationship with Lauren.

####Casablanca####
In December 1941, American expatriate Rick Blaine owns a nightclub and gambling den in Casablanca. "Rick's Café Américain" attracts a varied clientele, including Vichy French and Nazi German officials, refugees desperate to reach the neutral United States, and those who prey on them. Although Rick professes to be neutral in all matters, he ran guns to Ethiopia during the Second Italo-Ethiopian War and fought on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War. Despite feigning indifference, he demonstrates sympathy for the refugees' plight and disdain for the repressive, fascist regimes.

Petty crook Ugarte boasts to Rick of "letters of transit" obtained by murdering two German couriers. The papers allow the bearers to travel freely around German-occupied Europe and to neutral Portugal; they are priceless to the refugees stranded in Casablanca. Ugarte plans to sell them at the club and persuades Rick to hold them. Before he can meet his contact, Ugarte is arrested by the local police under Captain Louis Renault, the unabashedly corrupt prefect of police. Ugarte dies in custody without revealing that Rick has the letters.

Then the reason for Rick's cynical nature—former lover Ilsa Lund—enters his establishment. Spotting Rick's friend and house pianist, Sam, Ilsa asks him to play "As Time Goes By". Rick storms over, furious that Sam disobeyed his order never to perform that song again, and is stunned to see Ilsa. She is accompanied by her husband, Victor Laszlo, a renowned fugitive Czechoslovak Resistance leader. The two need the letters to escape to America, as German Major Strasser has come to Casablanca to arrest Laszlo.

When Laszlo makes inquiries, Signor Ferrari, an underworld figure and Rick's friendly business rival, divulges his suspicion that Rick has the letters of transit. Laszlo returns to Rick's cafe that night and tries to buy the letters. Rick refuses to sell, telling Laszlo to ask his wife why. They are interrupted when Strasser leads a group of German officers in singing "lang|de|Die Wacht am Rhein". Laszlo orders the house band to play "lang|fr|La Marseillaise". When the bandleader looks to Rick, the latter nods, and Laszlo leads the band in proud defiance. Patriotic fervor grips the crowd, and everyone joins in, drowning out the Germans. Fearing the spirit Laszlo can inspire, Strasser demands that Renault close the club.


Later, Ilsa confronts Rick in the deserted café; when he refuses to give her the letters, she threatens him with a gun but then confesses that she still loves him. She explains that when they met and fell in love in Paris in 1940, she believed her husband had been killed while attempting to escape from a concentration camp. While preparing to flee with Rick from the city during the Battle of France, Ilsa learned Laszlo was alive and hiding near Paris. She left Rick without explanation to nurse her sick husband. Rick's bitterness dissolves. He agrees to help, letting her believe she will stay with him when Laszlo leaves. When Laszlo unexpectedly shows up, having narrowly escaped a police raid on a Resistance meeting, Rick has waiter Carl spirit Ilsa away. Laszlo, aware of Rick's love for Ilsa, tries to persuade him to use the letters to take her to safety.

When the police arrest Laszlo on a trumped-up charge, Rick persuades Renault to release him by promising to set him up for a much more serious crime: possession of the letters. To allay Renault's suspicions, Rick explains that he and Ilsa will leave for America. When Renault tries to arrest Laszlo as arranged, Rick forces him at gunpoint to assist in their escape. At the last moment, Rick makes Ilsa board the plane to Lisbon with Laszlo, telling her that she would regret it if she stayed, "Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon and for the rest of your life." Strasser, tipped off by Renault, drives up alone. When Strasser ignores Rick's warnings and attempts to stop the plane, Rick shoots him dead. When policemen arrive, Renault pauses, then orders them to "round up the usual suspects." He suggests to Rick that they join the Free French in Brazzaville. As they walk away into the fog, Rick says, "Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship."

####Cash McCall####
Grant Austen, the head of Austen Plastics, yearns for retirement. So when Schofield Industries, his largest customer, threatens to take its business elsewhere, Austen hires a consulting firm, which finds an interested potential buyer, the notorious businessman Cash McCall.

Cash meets with Austen and his daughter Lory, who owns part of the company. Austen conceals the problem he has with Schofield Industries. Afterwards, Cash speaks to Lory privately. It turns out they met the previous summer and were attracted to each other. However, when Lory showed up at his cabin soaking wet from a summer rainstorm later that night, Cash, not ready for a serious relationship, gently turned her away. Mortified by the rejection, she fled back into the storm. When he was unable to get Lory out of his mind, Cash realized he had made a big mistake. He overpays for Austen Plastics just so he can reconnect with her.

Before the deal is finalized, Gil Clark, Cash's assistant, discovers that Austen Plastics holds patents essential to Schofield Industries. Its alarmed boss, retired Army General Danvers, tries to buy Austen Plastics himself. Cash then decides that he could run Schofield more profitably and starts secretly buying up controlling interest in the second company.

In the middle of all the deal making, Cash proposes marriage to Lory, and she accepts. However, Maude Kennard, the assistant manager of the hotel where Cash resides, wants Cash for herself and tricks Lory into believing that she is Cash's girlfriend. Meanwhile, one of Austen's business acquaintances, Harvey Bannon, convinces him that Cash swindled him and paid much less than the company is worth, prompting Austen to sue Cash. Eventually, everything is cleared up, and Cash and Lory reconcile, while Gil talks Grant into going back to work.

####Cass Timberlane####
Judge Cass Timberlane is a middle-aged, incorruptible, highly respected man who enjoys good books and playing the flute. He falls for Ginny, a much younger girl from the lower class in his small Minnesota town. At first, the marriage is happy, but Ginny becomes bored with the small town and with the judge's friends. She leaves him for an affair with a lawyer, Timberlane's boyhood friend. Eventually, disillusioned with her lover, Ginny returns to her husband and becomes his loyal wife. The novel is Lewis's examination of marriage, love, romance, heartache and trust.

####Center Stage####
After a series of countrywide auditions, twelve young dancers gain entry to the American Ballet Academy (which is loosely based on the School of American Ballet), the affiliate school of the American Ballet Company (which appears to be based on either the American Ballet Theatre or the New York City Ballet). They work hard, attending classes every day for weeks to make them the best dancers they can possibly be, and in preparations for a final dance workshop which will determine the three boys and three girls who will be asked to join the company. The workshop will also provide an opportunity for the students to showcase their talent to other ballet companies across the country. Gaining a leading part in the workshop is therefore essential.

Tensions mount between Jonathan Reeves (Peter Gallagher), the company's aging choreographer and director, and Cooper Nielson (Ethan Stiefel), his best dancer, who also wants to choreograph. They also have issues because Kathleen Donahue (Julie Kent), Cooper's ex-girlfriend and fellow dancer, left him to wed Jonathan. Star student Maureen (Susan May Pratt), a closet bulimic who seems poised for success, discovers that life is passing her by when she meets a pre-med student (Eion Bailey) who shows her the merits of a life without ballet, to the dismay of her controlling stage mother (Debra Monk), herself a failed ballet dancer and current ABC employee. Sweet Jody Sawyer (Amanda Schull), despite underdeveloped turn out, body type issues, and poor footwork, is determined to dance professionally, but it appears less and less likely as the movie progresses that she will be good enough. Jody's parents, Jonathan, Maureen, and ballet teacher Juliette Simone (Donna Murphy) try to convince Jody to move on from dance and attend college. Jody refuses to give up on her dream of being in a professional ballet company. Talented, but smart aleck Eva Rodriguez (Zoe Saldana; doubled by SAB alumna and former NYCB member Aesha Ash) from Boston loves to dance but seems destined to be stuck in the back of the corps because of her bad attitude. Tensions also arise between Charlie (Sascha Radetsky), a naturally gifted fellow advanced student from Seattle, and Cooper over Jody; Charlie has a crush on Jody, who had a one-night stand with Cooper and remains infatuated with him.

Despite Jonathan's objections, Cooper choreographs a rock/pop music-based ballet for the workshop. Three ballets are presented; Jonathan and another choreographer create the other two respectively—the two more "traditional" ballets are not danced to actual ballet music, however. The first (not shown, beyond entrances of the corps and soloist from the wings) is to Mendelssohn's "Italian Symphony", while Jonathan's ballet (choreographed by Christopher Wheeldon) is set to Rachmaninov's 2nd Piano Concerto. Cooper's ballet (choreographed by Susan Stroman) mirrors the relationship between himself, Jonathan, and Kathleen. Jody, Charlie, and their gay friend Erik (Shakiem Evans) are set to dance the three lead roles when Erik sprains his ankle in a final rehearsal. To Jonathan's protests and Jody's apprehension, Cooper steps in to fill the role, and the tensions between Jody, Charlie, and Cooper play out on the stage.

After the final workshop, Cooper starts his own dance company, much to Jonathan's chagrin, as Cooper's financial backer is a wealthy widow (played by Elizabeth Hubbard) who Jonathan was hoping would donate to American Ballet Company. Cooper asks Jody to be a principal dancer, as her dancing style, though technically deficient, is perfect for his company. He also asks to date her, but Jody turns him down in favor of Charlie. Maureen decides to give up ballet because she finally realizes that ballet is just something she does well and not what she wants in life. She decides to attend regular university and also seek help for her eating disorder. Eva is picked by Jonathan to join ABC after proving her worth in the workshop, surprising everyone by dancing in place of Maureen as the lead in Jonathan's ballet. When Nancy confronts Maureen for quitting, she calls her mother out for her behavior. She points out that ballet was Nancy's passion and that she only did ballet to make Nancy proud because she never got the chance to be a ballet dancer herself. After realizing how unhappy she is, Maureen decided she wants a normal life in attending college and follow her own dreams away from Nancy. Charlie, and fellow advanced students and friends Anna (who was always favored by Jonathan and who danced "Gelsey Kirkland's part" as the lead in the "Italian Symphony" ballet; played by SAB alumna and former NYCB corps member Megan Pepin) and Erik are also asked to join the American Ballet Company, and Sergei (Ilia Kulik), Charlie and Erik's roommate and friend, joins his girlfriend Galina in the San Francisco Ballet Company.

####A Certain Smile####
In Paris, beautiful Dominique Vallon is involved with a young man, Bertrand Griot, until suddenly entering into an unwise week-long romance with his wealthy and married uncle, Luc Ferrand.

####Chain of Desire####
A series of unrelated amorous lovers are connected by a chain of desire. It begins when a woman named Alma flees from a would-be lover. She runs into a church, where she meets a man named Jesus and they eventually make love.

Jesus goes home to wife Isa and they make love. Isa leaves for an appointment with Dr. Buckley, with whom she is having an affair. Buckley then visits Linda, a dominatrix. Linda goes home to husband Hubert, a television commentator. Hubert has sex without her knowledge with a male teen, Keith.

Keith is introduced to exotic dancer Diana, who then has a fling with a much older artist, Mel. He goes home to an angry wife, Cleo. And that night, all of these people end up at a nightclub where Alma is performing. Alma has just learned that the lover she fled has been diagnosed with AIDS.

####Chained####
Eager to marry his devoted secretary Diane Lovering, New York shipping magnate Richard Field asks his wife Louise for a divorce. However, Louise refuses to surrender her social position and denies Richard's request. Although Diane insists that she will continue to love him without the benefit of marriage, Richard asks her to contemplate her choices while cruising to South America on one of his boats. Diane agrees to the cruise, but vows to return to New York unchanged.


Soon after boarding, Diane meets Johnnie Smith in the ship's bar and rejects his flirtations. Johnny asks his smooth-talking best friend Mike Bradley for help but is double-crossed when Mike treats him like a drunk who is annoying Diane. Mike charms her and a shipboard romance blossoms. Still true to Richard, Diane makes no commitments to Mike. He persists, inviting her to visit his ranch in Buenos Aires. After a fun-filled day, Diane and Mike confess their mutual love. Diane finally tells him about Richard, but realizing that Mike is the man whom she truly loves, Diane promises that when she returns to New York, she will end her affair with Richard.

Richard presents Diane with a wedding ring and explains that his wife finally agreed to divorce him under the condition that he not be allowed to see his sons. Overwhelmed by his sacrifice for her, Diane says nothing about her new romance. After writing Mike a "Dear John" letter dumping him, she marries Richard.

A year later, Diane encounters Mike in a New York gun shop and suggests that they dine together. In spite of his bitterness, Mike still loves Diane and senses that she still loves him. Diane explains why she is loyal to Richard. Mike visits their country house and, in spite of Diane's protests, vows to confront his rival. But when Mike sees how kind and caring Richard is with Diane, he relents and leaves. Richard reveals that he had long sensed that she was in love with another man and nobly offers to divorce her. Unchained at last, Diane and Mike begin their married life on his ranch.

####Chance at Heaven####
Blacky owns a very successful service station in Silver Beach, Massachusetts, a summer resort for the wealthy. He plans to own a chain of stations someday and to marry his girlfriend Marje. However, he falls in love with Glory, a flirtatious, accident-prone debutante whose snobbish mother has just purchased a large summer home. An unlikely friendship develops between Glory and Marje, who sees that Blacky is truly in love with Glory and tells him to follow his heart and marry Glory.

Glory and Blacky elope and settle into his bungalow. Glory's mother weepily tells her that she has ruined her life. However, the newlyweds are happy and Glory soon learns that she is pregnant. Glory's mother tells her that she is only a child herself and that she has no idea what she will have to endure. Blacky is ecstatic, but Glory's mother later persuades him to permit Glory to visit New York for medical care even though the local doctor is a highly qualified obstetrician. The visit lasts several months. When Blacky learns from Marje that Glory's mother wants her trunks sent to California, he rushes to the city.

Blacky arrives at the New York apartment to find that Glory has changed dramatically and desires a divorce. She rejects Blacky's attempts at romance and tells him that the marriage was a mistake because he married the wrong kind of a girl. She wants a life with her friends and her mother. When Blacky asks about the baby, Glory's mother informs him that Glory had not actually been pregnant.

After the divorce, Blacky returns to his bungalow to find his old armchair in place and Marje preparing his favorite dinner.

####Chances####
In 1914, brother officers Jack and Tom Ingleside are in London, headed home on furlough. In the dense fog, Jack bumps into a young woman and tries to pick her up. She laughs at him, promises they will meet again, and rides off in a cab. When the brothers arrive at the family home, their mother is having tea with Molly Prescott, a childhood neighbor who has grown to be a lovely young woman—the woman in the fog. Tom tells his mother that he has always loved Molly. Jack, who is known as a ladies' man, is smitten.

Mrs. Ingleside is holding a benefit ball for the Red Cross, and Archie, Ruth and Sylvia, friends of the boys, spend the weekend. Sylvia is Jack's old flame. Jack and Molly step away from the dance. He tries to tell her how he feels and she laughingly replies, "How many girls have you said that to?" but they kiss. She returns to the dance where Tom is waiting.

When their mother tells Jack of her joy at the love between Tom and Molly, he is shocked as he had thought that Tom was not interested in girls. Heartbroken, he makes love to Sylvia in Molly's presence. Wounded, Molly turns away. Meanwhile, they have been called back to France and their artillery unit. Tom asks Molly to wait for him. Ecstatic, he tells Jack of the engagement, and Jack congratulates him.

At the front, bodies and debris fill a gun emplacement and the communicating trench. Lieutenant Taylor brings the news and dies. Jack is assigned to take a crew of volunteers to put the gun back in order, returning over the same terrain that killed Taylor. The mission is a success, but four men die. The major sends Jack on leave. Tom gives him a letter for Molly, who does not write to him. In a French town, Jack sees Molly, who is driving for the army. She confesses that she agreed to marry Tom out of anger, and she cannot bear his letters. She asks for one day of Jack's leave. He agrees to come back early. She promises to write to Tom and tell him the truth.

They meet as planned and visit the shore. She did not write to Tom. Jack says "Saying goodbye is to die a little." He puts a ring on her left hand. She gives him a picture. They have an hour left, perhaps their last, and she cannot bear to let him go. She curls up on the grass, weeping. They embrace passionately.

At the front, Jack says that it was impossible to talk to their mother as there was a stone wall between them. Tom observes that the letters they send home are lies, just another thing that they will have to conceal when the war is over.

Tom takes Jack's coat by mistake and finds Molly's picture. He assumes that Jack had forgotten to give it to him, but when he teases Jack about it, the truth emerges. Tom, furious and betrayed, refuses to listen.

Major Bradford is ordered to withdraw his artillery group. Men, teams of horses and wagons race to a new position under a constant barrage. They fire on the advancing German infantry, then remove the breech blocks and fall back to their trenches, still under constant fire. Tom lingers by the guns, apparently in despair. Calling Tom, Jack returns through barbed wire and across shattered ground to reach his brother, now wounded. He drags Tom back.

Jack has lost his left arm and walks with a cane. Molly steps out to meet him and they kiss. Tom has died, but Jack finds consolation in the fact that his brother said that they were pals at the end. They walk together into the fog.

####Change of Heart####
After their graduation from college, friends Catherine Furness (Janet Gaynor), Chris Thring (Charles Farrell), Mack McGowan (James Dunn) and Madge Rountree (Ginger Rogers) move to New York City. Madge hopes to become an actress, lawyer Chris wants to work for a big firm, Mack aspires to being a radio crooner, and Catherine desires to be a writer. Although the quartet are great friends, their relationships are strained by their romantic entanglements, for Catherine is in love with Chris, who has eyes only for Madge, while Madge cannot make up her mind between Chris and Mack, who adores Catherine.

After a 15-hour transcontinental flight, the youngsters call Phyllis Carmichael (Barbara Barondess), an alumna of their university, who invites them to a party. Later, when none of the friends have jobs yet, a desperate Catherine responds to an ad seeking parents for orphaned infants. After Catherine explains to Dr. Nathan Kurtzman (Gustav von Seyffertitz), the babies' caretaker, that as an orphan herself she is willing to work as a nanny for anyone who adopts one of the babies, Harriet Hawkins (Beryl Mercer), a kindly old woman who runs a used clothing shop, hires her. Harriet explains that she keeps one of the babies with her to show to the rich people who drop off their clothes in hopes that someone will adopt the child.

Catherine rushes to the boardinghouse where the friends are staying and discovers that Chris and Mack have also found jobs. Their excitement is short-lived, however, for Madge announces that she is leaving to live with Phyllis, who can introduce her to a better class of people. While Mack disparages Madge's selfishness, Catherine is heartbroken when Chris runs after Madge. Mack proposes to Catherine, but she gently turns him down and moves in with Harriet. A month later, Mack visits Catherine and helps her persuade Louise Mockby (Drue Leyton) to adopt the boy for whom Harriet is caring. Catherine learns from Mack that Chris became ill and disappeared after Madge left with businessman Howard Jackson (Kenneth Thomson) to be married in California.

Catherine tracks down Chris, who requires round-the-clock nursing. Her loving care saves his life, and after Chris recovers, he realizes that he loves her. The two are wed and everything goes well until the return of Madge, who decided not to marry Howard. Madge has inherited a large amount of money and pesters Chris, who now works for Gerald Mockby (Theodore von Eltz), Louise's lawyer husband, for legal advice. Catherine is jealous of the attention Chris pays to Madge and finally confronts her. Catherine and Chris are to spend the weekend with the Mockbys, and Madge states that if she cannot persuade Chris to stay with her, she will give him up. Catherine is crushed when Chris misses their train and goes to the Mockbys alone. Chris soon arrives, however, and Catherine hugs him as he says he wants only her.

####Changes####
Melanie Adams is a divorced mother who gave birth to twin girls Val and Jessica at age 19 before becoming a successful news correspondent working in New York City. For her latest story, she travels to Los Angeles to do a report on a sick, but an optimistic girl. She immediately feels attracted to the girl's doctor, Peter Hallam. Peter is a widowed father of three children; 18-year-old Mark, 15-year-old Pam, and 8-year-old Matt. Their mother died of pulmonary hypertension after refusing treatment. The family is still grieving - especially Pam - has difficulty dealing with the loss.

After a short-lived romance, Melanie and Peter part ways. They soon conclude that they can't live without each other and Melanie reluctantly gives up her job, thereby ruining her chances of becoming an anchor, to move with Val and Jessica, now 16, to Los Angeles. There, she takes a job as a co-host at a local news program and soon finds out the other co-host, Paul Stevenson, is not glad about her arrival, trying to sabotage her opportunities. Further on, she and Peter are married.

Trying to adjust to Californian life does not go without trouble. Val and Mark fall in love and she becomes pregnant. Fearing their parents' judgment, they decide to visit a downtown inexperienced doctor for an abortion. Val soon becomes very sick, which forces Mark to tell Melanie and Peter the truth about her abortion. While dealing with this information, Melanie is bothered by the great impact Peter's first wife still has. Pam and the maid, Mrs. Hahn treat Melanie horribly by not allowing Melanie to take in her own furniture and the twins still have to use a spare room.

When Melanie finds out she is pregnant, Peter is delighted, but the children are disgusted. Realizing she already does not have enough time to spend time with Val and Jessica, she considers having an abortion. When Peter thinks she only wants an abortion because of her career, Melanie decides that she has had enough. She packs her stuff and runs away to San Francisco. The family soon realizes all the problems they have caused Melanie. Peter fires Mrs. Hahn for not accepting Melanie as his new wife, and he takes down his late wife's portrait from the wall. Afterward, Peter convinces Melanie to return and everyone - including Pam - apologizes.

The family decides to move to a new  house with more space, and Peter hires Raquel, her maid from New York. Melanie soon gives birth to twins.

####Charlie St. Cloud####
Charlie St. Cloud, with his younger brother Sam, wins a boating race on his sailboat "Splendid Splinter", subsequently receiving a sailing scholarship to Stanford University. He graduates from Winslow High School and after graduation, Charlie promises Sam they will practice baseball every day until he leaves for Stanford.

That night, Charlie wants to attend a graduation party with his friends, but his mother makes him babysit Sam. Charlie tries sneaking out to the party, but Sam catches him and asks for a ride to his friend Tommy's house. While on the road, Charlie reassures him that his departure will not be like their father's abandonment.

The car later gets rear-ended by a SUV, pushing them into an intersection where they are T-boned by a 18-wheeler, killing them both. During an out-of-body experience, Charlie hugs and reassures Sam, promising not to leave him.

Paramedic Florio Ferrente revives Charlie but Sam dies in his arms. At the funeral, Charlie runs off, unable to put Sam's baseball glove in the grave. Running through the woods, he finds his spirit and discovers they can interact. Charlie fulfills Sam's dying wish by practicing baseball with him every day at sunset, even though it keeps Sam's spirit from "moving on."

Five years later, Charlie is a caretaker at Waterside Cemetery, having abandoned his scholarship. He continues to interact with ghosts, including his friend Sully who died in the Marines. Charlie runs into Florio, who is dying of cancer.

Florio encourages Charlie to live his life more fully, in search of the reason why he was saved. At the docks, Charlie meets Tess Carroll, an old classmate and sailor planning to solo-sail around the world.

The following day, Charlie finds an injured Tess tending her father's grave. He tends to her at his home and they develop a relationship. Later, when Charlie arrives late to see Sam, he says he felt Charlie forgetting him and himself disappearing. Charlie explains his ongoing relationship with Sam to Tess, who has followed him, and ends things to not lose Sam.

Charlie learns that Tess disappeared with her boat in a storm three days earlier. After meeting her on the docks, he believes he's really been interacting with her spirit as she appeared at the cemetery, and he assumes she died at sea.

Florio's wife Carla tells Charlie that Florio died the previous night, giving him his St. Jude medallion. Remembering that Florio believed there is no such thing as a lost cause, he becomes convinced that Tess is alive and that he was saved to save her now.

With his friend Alistair and Tess's coach Tink, Charlie takes Tink's boat to find her. At sunset, Charlie misses his game with Sam, causing him to move on from the living world as the brothers affirm their love. Sam appears to Charlie as a shooting star, revealing Tess' location. They find the wrecked boat and an unconscious Tess. Charlie uses his body heat to keep her warm until the Coast Guard arrives, protecting her against hypothermia.

Later, Charlie invites Tess to ride with him on an old sail boat he has bought. She is afraid, as she has had vivid dreams about them together. He tells Tess that these are memories, reciting a quote from her father's funeral that he discussed with her spirit. Charlie quits his job and makes his final peace with Sam's spirit. Some time later, they set off to sail around the world.

####Charlotte Sometimes####
Michael is an introverted, Japanese-American auto mechanic who lives in a Los Angeles duplex, whose other half he leases out to Lori. The Chinese-American Lori becomes good friends with Michael and there is somewhat of an air of sexual tension between them, but Michael, aware that Lori has a live-in boyfriend, Justin, doesn't cross their line of friendship. When the enigmatic drifter Darcy comes into Michael's life, the dynamics between him, Lori, and Justin are complicated and Michael must make a decision between his head and heart.

####The Chaser####
An ambulance chaser, unethical and disliked by many, attorney Thomas Z. Brandon chases cases in the street, offering to represent clients on trumped-up charges.

A street-car company's owner, Calhoun, resents this practice and hires Dorothy Mason to go undercover to gain evidence against the attorney, pretending to be an accident victim. She sees how a doctor, Prescott, manipulates a client into memorizing certain false information to use in court.

Dorothy learns that Thomas has a good explanation why he's doing this and that Calhoun is actually unscrupulous himself. She perjures herself in court, and Thomas spurns her after learning of her deceit, but ultimately they fall in love and Thomas promises to act more ethically from now on.

####Cheaper to Marry####
As described in a review in a film magazine, on being taken into the Wall Street broker firm of Knight & Tylor, Dick Tyler (Nagel) proposes to Doris (La MOtte), an artist, and is accepted. On hearing this, his older and more experienced partner Jim Knight (Stone) tells him that he is making a mistake as a wife interferes too much with a young man in business. Attending a dinner given by her old schoolmate Evelyn (Duval), Doris is impressed by her luxurious mode of living. Dick is surprised to find that Jim is there and soon learns that Evelyn is his partner's mistress. A crisis arises in the business and it develops that Jim has squandered the firm's surplus on Evelyn. Jim goes to her for aid but she turns him down. Doris pleads with a banker friend, who is so much impressed that he agrees to accept Dick's personal note to tide them over. They go to inform Jim, but find that Jim has taken his own life. The banker marries Doris' friend Flora (Fazenda). The two couples, contrasting their situation own with Jim' experience, decide it is better in every way and cheaper to marry.

####Cheers for Miss Bishop####
Miss Ella Bishop (Martha Scott) is a teacher at Midwestern University. The story is told in flashback and takes place over many years, from the 1880s to the 1930s, showing her from her freshman year to her retirement as an old woman. At the beginning, she lives with her mother and her vixenish cousin Amy (Mary Anderson); she remembers when her father had a farm near the town. Ella is an inhibited girl whose frustration grows as she approaches womanhood. She dreams of becoming a teacher. When she graduates from Midwestern University, she is thrilled when its president, Professor Corcoran (Edmund Gwenn), offers her a position on the faculty.

Ella becomes engaged to lawyer Delbert Thompson (Don Douglas), but Delbert is led astray by Amy and eventually has to marry her, despite loving Ella. The couple move away. After Amy becomes pregnant, Delbert abandons her. Amy dies in childbirth, leaving Ella to care for Amy's daughter Hope (Marsha Hunt). Hope grows up and marries Richard (John Archer), and they move away and have a daughter named Gretchen (Lois Ranson). Ella also has a fling with another teacher, the unhappily married John Stevens (Sidney Blackmer), but John's wife cannot give him a divorce for religious reasons, forcing Ella to break off the relationship. Later, she is distressed to learn that John has been killed.

Through all the years, Ella is supported by her friend Sam Peters (William Gargan), a local grocer who loves her. Another source of support is Professor Corcoran, who persuades her to stay when she considers leaving. His death is a blow to Ella.

As Ella reaches old age, she reflects back and realizes she allowed the years to go by without achieving what she believes to be true fulfillment. When the new president pressures her to finally retire, she agrees. However, the years have not been without glory; and her moment of triumph arrives when her numerous, now-famous students from over the years return to a testimonial dinner at the school to honor their beloved Miss Bishop.

####Chemical Hearts####
Teenager Henry Page considers himself a hopeless romantic but has never fallen in love. He aspires to be a writer and to be chosen as editor of his high school newspaper. The newspaper's faculty advisor disappoints him by making him share the editor position with Grace Town, a new student in his class. Grace is physically disabled --walking with a limp and using a cane. She is also sullen and morose and initially rejects Henry's attempts to talk to her.

After missing his bus on the first day, Henry and Grace wind up walking home along the same route. Although distant at first, Grace relents and offers to drive Henry home once they reach her house. However, she refuses to drive and has him drive her car and leave it at his house. The next day, a mysterious middle-aged man retrieves her car without speaking to Henry.

As Grace begins to let Henry into her life, she shows him an abandoned factory with a pool containing koi fish. He falls in love with her despite her mixed signals and obvious indications that she is emotionally traumatized. He follows her one day and finds her at the grave of a teenager. Upon further investigation, he learns that the dead teenager was killed in a car crash and that Grace had been in the car when it happened--causing her disability and leading to her changing schools.

Their romance peaks at a Halloween party, after which they have sex. It is Henry's first time. They have a romantic few days together, but Grace is still troubled.

On the anniversary of the car crash, Henry goes to her house and learns that she has been living in the room of her deceased boyfriend, with his mother and father (the man who had picked up her car earlier). She finds Henry there and they argue as she is clearly still in love with her dead boyfriend. Henry cannot handle this information and they break up.

One day, after being told by Dom’s father that Grace has gone missing, Henry finds her in the koi pool, wearing what was to have been her wedding dress. He takes her back to her home.

As Henry's and Grace's senior year comes to an end, they avoid talking to one another at the school. Grace leaves the newspaper after taking some time off school. After the last issue of the newspaper is released, to which Henry has contributed a heartfelt essay about the biochemistry of teenagers, they meet in a school hallway. Their encounter is an emotional one and they hug, but then go their separate ways.

####Child of Manhattan####
Taxi dancer Madeleine McGonegle (Nancy Carroll) attracts the attention of millionaire Paul Vanderkill (John Boles), and when she becomes pregnant, they marry to avoid a scandal.  When the baby dies at birth, Madeleine runs away to Mexico, to give Paul the divorce she thinks he wants.  There, she meets "Panama Canal" Kelly (cowboy star Buck Jones), an old friend who proposed to her before he went west. Undeterred by her recent past, he asks her again to marry, and she eventually agrees.  When Paul discovers where she is, he shows up just as the couple is about to be wed.  When Panama overhears Madeleine confess her love to Paul, he bows out of the picture.

####Children of Divorce####
Jean Waddington (Esther Ralston) and Ted Larrabee (Gary Cooper) grew up together in an affluent society, the children of divorced parents. Most of their friends have cynical attitudes towards love and marriage, but Jean and Ted are more serious. In fact, Jean has fallen in love with Ted, who one day proposes marriage. Knowing, however, that Ted's father was unfaithful to his wife and irresponsible, Jean demands that he prove himself before she accepts his proposal. Soon Ted starts a business and opens up an office in the building where their mutual friend Kitty Flanders (Clara Bow) works. Kitty is also a child of divorce.

One evening, Kitty throws a wild party at work, and Ted takes part in the revelry. At the party, Kitty meets Prince Ludovico de Saxe (Einar Hanson) and is immediately attracted to him. The prince returns her affection, but the prince's guardian Duke Henri de Goncourt (Norman Trevor) prevents them from seeing each other because she is not of their social class. Raised by a mother who insisted that she marry a wealthy man, Kitty soon sets her sights on Ted—even though she knows that Ted and her close friend Jean love each other. One evening, after going on a drunken spree, Kitty tricks Ted into marrying her, even though she does not love him.

Desperately unhappy, Ted assures Jean that he will seek a divorce as soon as possible. Not wanting him to repeat the mistakes of their parents, Jean refuses to marry him if he divorces, and sails off for Europe. The arrival of their baby does little for their marriage, and Ted avoids spending any time with his unwanted wife. Sometime later, Kitty and Ted and their child visit the prince, whom Kitty once loved. Kitty remembers her feelings for the prince and dreams of marrying him someday. When she learns that he can never marry a divorced woman for religious reasons, she poisons herself.

####China Doll####
In 1943, Captain Cliff Brandon (Victor Mature) is a cargo aircraft pilot supplying the Allied troops fighting the Japanese in China. When he is not flying or training his new crew hard, he is usually drinking in the local bar.

One night, while stumbling home drunk, he encounters an old Chinese man who offers him a girl, his daughter Shu-Jen (Li Li-Hua). Brandon pays him, but when he sees the young woman, he tells the old man to keep her. When he wakes up the next morning, he finds Shu-Jen there. After Father Cairns (Ward Bond), a longtime resident of China, expresses his disapproval, Brandon tries his best to get rid of her, assigning the task to Ellington, a young Chinese boy who speaks English well. Ellington tries to sell her into prostitution, but Father Cairns happens by and takes Shu-Jen back to Brandon.

The priest finds out that Shu-Jen's father was a farmer, but he lost his land to the Japanese invaders. Destitute, he sold his daughter's services for three months to feed the rest of his large family. Cairns tells Brandon that, if he were to send the girl back, the old man would return the desperately needed money. So, over Brandon's protests, the priest gets him to keep the girl; Brandon tells her that she is there only as a housekeeper. He makes Ellington his live-in interpreter.

Over time, however, love blooms, and Shu-Jen becomes pregnant. They get married in a traditional Chinese ceremony. After he is transferred to another base, she gives birth to their daughter. Later, they are reunited.

While Brandon is flying a mission, the base is attacked. The returning flight is ordered to divert to a different airfield, but Brandon disobeys and lands his aircraft. When he cannot locate his family, he orders his crew to leave with the survivors. Then he finds Shu-Jen and Ellington both dead, but his daughter is alive. He puts his dog tag around her neck, then mans an anti-aircraft gun and shoots down one or two enemy aircraft before he is killed.

In 1957, his former crewmates and their wives anxiously await the arrival in the United States of Brandon's daughter, found in an orphanage by Father Cairns, still with her father's dog tag.

####China Seas####
Alan Gaskell (Clark Gable) is an abrasive, gambling, captain of a steamer, the "Kin Lung", chugging between Singapore and Hong Kong. Tensions are high before the "Kin Lung" sails from Hong Kong because pirates are discovered disguised as women passengers while others try to smuggle weapons aboard.

Dolly Portland (Jean Harlow) is Alan's former girlfriend, who Alan later describes at the Captain's table as a "professional entertainer," and travels with her maid. Meanwhile, another of Alan's former loves, aristocratic Sybil Barclay (Rosalind Russell) from Sussex, England boards the "Kin Lung". "I am in your hands again," Sybil taunts Alan, and eventually they plan to marry when the steamer docks in Singapore. However, Dolly tries to win back Alan. Meanwhile, Jamesy McArdle (Wallace Beery) is a corrupt passenger, in league with a gang of pirates planning to steal the gold shipment of GBP250,000 gold bullion carried on the steamer. Dolly discovers the plot and attempts to warn Capt. Gaskell against McArdle but he deflects her warnings.

In calm seas, following a typhoon in which the ship suffered damage to its cargo and the deaths of some crew, the Kin Lung is boarded by Malay pirates, as McArdle expected and with whom he is in alliance. The pirates steal personal possessions from passengers. Unable to find gold in the ships strongbox, which Capt. Gaskell has replaced with sand, they torture Capt. Gaskell using a Malay Boot but the captain will not reveal the gold's location. Instead, with bravado, Gaskell instructs the pirates, as they prepare to torture him: "My size is 9C", before fainting from pain. While leaving the ship, minus the gold they intended to steal, the pirate's ship is bombed by 3rd officer Davis, who dies while throwing a Mills Bomb as a grenade, and later strafed by Capt. Gaskell. Their ship sinks in the South China Sea.

Frustrated by the failed robbery McArdle commits suicide. When the "Kin Lung" docks in Singapore, Captain Gaskell, still limping due to his torture, settles that his love for Sybil is superficial. Instead he recognises that Dolly gave him good warning and he loves her more. They decide to marry. He says farewell to Sybil. As the film closes Capt. Gaskell reveals the gold was safe all along, hidden inside the ship's cargo (the toolbox of a steamroller stowed on deck).

####The Choice####
Travis Shaw (Benjamin Walker) is a veterinarian, living in the city of Wilmington, NC, who falls in love on his first meeting with Gabby Holland (Teresa Palmer), who has moved into the house next door.

Their initial meeting, however, is rather rocky as Travis is hosting a noisy backyard picnic, complete with loud music while Gabby is trying to study next door.  Gabby is a medical student who is in a relationship with a fellow doctor, Ryan McCarthy (Tom Welling). Travis has an on again, off again relationship with a girl named Monica.  With Ryan out of state overseeing a new hospital opening, Gabby and Travis spend more time together, starting a relationship.

Ryan returns, and is keen to resume his relationship with Gabby. Unsure of her feelings, Gabby tells Travis that their relationship wasn't necessarily serious, so she says yes to Ryan's marriage proposal. Monica (Alexandra Daddario) breaks up with Travis, telling him that she knows about him and Gabby and that he should fight for her because they love each other. Travis goes to the hospital, only to find out she left after breaking off her engagement with Ryan. Ryan punches him for the affair. Travis then goes to Gabby's family home to propose. After convincing her of his love, she says yes. They marry and over the course of the next few years they have two children and become a happy family.

One evening, after a dinner to which Travis is late due to a work emergency, Gabby drives back home but is involved in an accident with another car. She survives but is now in a coma, which seems permanent. Travis, wracked with guilt, has to decide whether to take her off life support.

After a storm nearly destroys their house, Travis finds the wind chimes that Gabby had on her porch. He goes to his island and builds a gazebo, hanging them there. The shell chime starts to ring in the wind and Travis runs to the hospital where Gabby has woken up from her coma. When he walks in she says "you're late." He takes her home where she is welcomed by the family and Travis' sister's newborn child.

To make up for missing their dinner date Travis and Gabby have one in the front yard, where she tells him she heard everything he said whilst in the coma. Stating that he was "breathing for her." The movie finishes with Travis and Gabby with their children and dogs sitting in the gazebo 'Gabby's Point', looking out onto the shore and up at the stars.

####The Christmas Blessing####
When Nathan (Neil Patrick Harris), a doctor, loses a patient on the operating table, he decides that being a doctor isn't meant for him, and he wants to give it up.  He decides to take a vacation to his hometown, and stay with his father (Hugh Thompson).

While volunteering at the local grade school, he meets Charlie (Angus T. Jones), a young boy who has also lost his mother, and Meghan (Rebecca Gayheart), Charlie's teacher.  Charlie and his father have also just arrived in town, to work at estates doing chores.  Nathan, searching for the shoes he gave his mother the Christmas she died (Even though in the "17 years later" epilogue of "The Christmas Shoes" he left them on her grave and walked away), learns that Charlie now has them.  And Meghan, wanting to buy a house for those in need, may not be able to.

Soon after his arrival, Nathan learns that Charlie is ailing from an irregular heart defect, and Meghan has cirrhosis of the liver, and will die unless she has a transplant. In the end, it is Charlie who saves her life, by giving her his liver.  As a dying wish, he asks Nathan, whom he calls coach, to give her the shoes. And Robert (Rob Lowe), Meghan's friend, buys the house for her. In honor of Charlie, Meghan names the house after him.

####The Christmas Card####
In the midst of war in Afghanistan, U.S. Army Sergeant Cody Cullen (John Newton) is given a Christmas card from a fellow soldier who had received it from his hometown, Nevada City, California. The card was sent by Faith Spelman (Alice Evans). As months pass, the card never leaves his side.  Cody, who has no family, and whose father was killed during the Vietnam War, is deeply affected when the soldier who gave him the card is killed. A few weeks before Christmas, Cody travels to see the soldier's widow, back in Nevada City. Just as he is about to leave town, Cody runs into Faith at a local luncheonette, where they happened to have placed identical orders. They part, but on his way out of town, Cody saves Faith's father, Luke (Ed Asner), from being hit by a speeding car. Luke takes a liking to Cody and convinces him to stay on as temporary help at his family's logging company. Paul (Ben Weber), Faith's longtime boyfriend who travels much of the time, and who selfishly wants Faith to move away from her close-knit family in Nevada City, arrives to meet her.

Complicating matters, Cody has fallen in love with Faith and despite her attempts to ignore the feeling, they end up sharing a kiss. When Paul unexpectedly asks Faith to marry him, she says yes. Even so, Paul downplays Faith's wish to stay near her family in the "boondocks". This all comes to a head on Christmas Eve. On the church steps, Cody and Paul meet, and Cody admits that he loves Faith, but accepts that she's going to marry Paul instead, and hopes that Paul is marrying Faith "for all the right reasons".  In church, in spite of the presence of Paul by her side, Faith keeps looking for Cody who has decided to leave. Paul notices and they step out and decide to part ways.

Early on Christmas Day, Cody places a Christmas card on the family Christmas tree, which will direct the family to the Christmas present, a wooden bench (inscribed with "Where the Magic Begins") that he has been building to mark the family's favorite spot at a nearby lake where he and Faith first kissed. Cody leaves a Christmas card for Faith with a handwritten note, which she reads aloud. In the note, Cody confesses his love for Faith, and says goodbye.  She asks her father whether it was "her" letter that brought Cody to Nevada City, to which Luke answers: no, "you" did. In the movie's final scene, Faith finds Cody at the local Vietnam War veterans' memorial. She chastises him for not saying goodbye, but before she can complete the sentence he kisses her, and she embraces him.

####The Christmas Hope####
After the recent loss of her son Sean—a minor character in "The Christmas Blessing"—Patty Addison (Madeleine Stowe) devotes herself to finding homes for needy children. The loss of Sean has strained Patty's relationship with her husband Mark, an airline pilot. But they reconnect emotionally when they take in Emily, a 9-year-old orphaned in a car accident similar to the one that killed Sean.

At the same time Dr. Nathan Andrews—the one character that connects the entire film trilogy—is trying to find the parents of a boy who died in the ER, and Mark is trying to help one of his son's friends. By the end of the film, all three stories are intertwined as they all look for Emily, who has run away.

####Christmas in Conway####
When terminally-ill Suzy Mayor leaves the hospital to spend her last days at her home in Conway, South Carolina, her grouch of a husband, Duncan, is beside himself with concern for her and with annoyance at everyone else, including Natalie, the live-in hospice nurse who has come home with Suzy. When Duncan decides to build a Ferris wheel in the backyard as a Christmas present for Suzy, in honor of the place where Duncan proposed to her, the neighbors and townspeople of this quiet Southern town are quick to object.

####The Christmas Ornament####
A young widow, Kathy (Kellie Martin), is not putting up a Christmas tree this year. For years, she and her recently deceased husband gave each other Christmas ornaments as gifts that represented their love for each other. Now she keeps those ornaments locked away in order to avoid memories of her tragic loss. The only holiday tradition she observes now is baking Christmas cookies for her friends, which she's been doing since childhood.

Shortly before Christmas, Kathy meets a handsome Christmas tree shop owner, Tim (Cameron Mathison), who tries to sell her a tree, but is initially unsuccessful. The two are attracted to each other, and soon she accepts a tree from him as a gift, as well as an ornament that symbolizes hope for her. She helps him deliver his trees, and he helps her start a new cookie business—something she's always dreamed of doing—and brings the joy of the Christmas season back into her life.

Supported by her best friend, Jenna (Jewel Staite), and her newfound feelings of love for Tim, Kathy starts to accept the message of hope symbolized by Tim's ornament. Their relationship, however, is complicated by her memories of her husband and by Tim's ex-girlfriend, Rebecca, who comes back into his life unexpectedly. As Christmas approaches, they come to realize how much their love means to each other and their future together.

####Cinderella Liberty####
John J. Baggs, Jr. (James Caan), a U.S. Navy sailor and Vietnam veteran, checks into the Seattle naval base medical facility for minor treatment. His medical test results are delayed, preventing him from rejoining his ship when it sails. He gets a clean bill of health, but must wait at the base for reassignment to another ship, and is given a "Cinderella liberty" pass that allows him to come and go from the base until the midnight curfew. Shortly thereafter, the base loses his records, making him unable to be reassigned or receive pay or benefits, and keeping him stuck at the base on "Cinderella liberty" until his records are found.

On his first night in a bar, he is racing the clock to find a woman before midnight, and is attracted to Maggie (Marsha Mason), a prostitute hustling sailors at a pool table. He challenges her at pool, and later goes to her tenement apartment for a sexual encounter, discovering that she lives with her bi-racial 11-year-old son Doug (Kirk Calloway). Baggs later finds Doug out drinking beer, and lectures Maggie about her lack of motherly oversight towards her son. Noticing that Doug is often left to fend for himself, Baggs begins spending time with him, while also developing a relationship with Maggie, with whom he is falling in love. The couple almost break up when Baggs learns Maggie is pregnant by a man she knew before she met Baggs, but they reconcile and Baggs accepts responsibility for the unborn child as well.

At the base, Baggs runs into his former training instructor, an older sailor named Forshay (Eli Wallach), who treated Baggs brutally. After an initial fistfight, Baggs learns that Forshay has been demoted and is being discharged due to his mistreatment of recruits, one of whom had political connections. Forshay's love of the Navy has been the only constant in his life and Forshay has no family or relationships outside the Navy. Baggs feels sorry for him and becomes his friend, while not wanting to repeat the same pattern in his own life. After his discharge, Forshay loses his pension and is forced to take a menial job as a strip show barker.

Baggs attempts to create a normal family life for Maggie and Doug, and succeeds for a while despite the obstacles presented by his lack of pay and benefits. He and Maggie marry, but due to his lost records, the Navy refuses to recognize the marriage or grant Maggie and Doug the normal privileges given to a sailor's family. Doug, suspicious and cynical at first, bonds with Baggs, who manages to get Doug's painfully decayed teeth fixed at the naval base by an unqualified dental assistant. Maggie gives birth prematurely to a son, whom she names after Baggs, but the baby dies soon after birth, causing a distraught Maggie to return to prostitution in order to distract herself from her grief. The Navy finally locates Baggs' records and reassigns him to a new ship, also giving him $1400 in back pay. When he goes to tell Maggie, he finds she has departed for New Orleans with another man, and left Doug behind for Baggs to look after. In order to stay with Doug, Baggs gets Forshay to change places with him and ship out under his name. After waving goodbye to a happy Forshay, Baggs and Doug then head for New Orleans to look for Maggie.

####Claire of the Moon####
"Claire of the Moon" is set in the 1990s in the Pacific Northwest. Claire Jabrowski (Todd), a famous heterosexual author, decides to attend a retreat for all-female writers. Claire's roommate at the retreat is Dr. Noel Benedict, author of a book called "The Naked Truth". The movie culminates in a sexual encounter between the two authors.

####Clementine####
Karen (Marrero), reeling from the end of a same-sex relationship, seeks refuge in her ex's lake house and meets Lana (Sweeney), a provocative young woman with whom she explores a complicated new relationship.

####Cleopatra####
"Because the film has been lost, the following summary is reconstructed from a description in a contemporary film magazine."

Cleopatra (Bara), the Siren of Egypt, by a clever ruse reaches Caesar (Leiber) and he falls victim to her charms. They plan to rule the world together, but then Caesar falls. Cleopatra's life is desired by the church, as the wanton woman's rule has become intolerable. Pharon (Roscoe), a high priest, is given a sacred dagger to take her life. He gives her his love instead and, when she is in need of some money, leads her to the tomb of his ancestors, where she tears the treasure from the breast of the mummy. With this wealth she goes to Rome to meet Antony (Hall). He leaves the affairs of state and travels to Alexandria with her, where they revel. Antony is recalled to Rome and married to Octavia (Blinn), but his soul cries out for Cleopatra. He sends her a message to arm her ships and meet him at Actium, where they battle the opposing forces. They are overpowered, and flee to Alexandria. There they are captured by Octavius (De Vries), and Antony dies in Cleopatra's arms. Before Cleopatra is to be dragged behind the wheels of Octavius' chariot, Pharon the priest, who has never ceased to love her, brings her the serpent that she joyously brings to her breast, dying royally with her crown on her head and scepter in her hand as becomes Egypt.

####Cleopatra####
After the Battle of Pharsalus in 48 BC, Julius Caesar goes to Egypt, under the pretext of being named the executor of the will of the father of the young Pharaoh Ptolemy XIII and his sister Cleopatra.  Ptolemy and Cleopatra are in the midst of a civil war of their own and she has been driven out of the city of Alexandria.  Ptolemy rules alone under the care of his three "guardians",  the chief eunuch Pothinus, his tutor Theodotus and General Achillas.

Cleopatra convinces Caesar to restore her throne from her younger brother. Caesar, in effective control of the kingdom, sentences Pothinus to death for arranging an assassination attempt on Cleopatra, and banishes Ptolemy to the eastern desert, where he and his outnumbered army would face certain death against Mithridates. Cleopatra is crowned queen of Egypt and begins to develop megalomaniacal dreams of ruling the world with Caesar, who in turn desires to become king of Rome. They marry, and when their son Caesarion is born, Caesar accepts him publicly, which becomes the talk of Rome and the Senate.

After he is made dictator for life, Caesar sends for Cleopatra. She arrives in Rome in a lavish procession and wins the adulation of the Roman people. The Senate grows increasingly discontented amid rumors that Caesar wishes to be made king, which is anathema to the Romans. On the Ides of March in 44 BC, a group of conspirators assassinate Caesar and flee the city, starting a rebellion. An alliance among Octavian (Caesar's adopted son), Mark Antony (Caesar's right-hand man and general) and Marcus Ameilius Lepidus puts down the rebellion and splits the republic. Cleopatra is angered after Caesar's will recognizes Octavian, rather than Caesarion, as his official heir, and she returns to Egypt.

While planning a campaign against Parthia in the east, Antony realizes that he needs money and supplies that only Egypt can sufficiently provide. After refusing several times to leave Egypt, Cleopatra acquiesces and meets him on her royal barge in Tarsus. The two begin a love affair, and Cleopatra assures Antony that he is much more than a pale reflection of Caesar. Octavian's removal of Lepidus forces Antony to return to Rome, where he marries Octavian's sister Octavia to prevent political conflict. This upsets and enrages Cleopatra. Antony and Cleopatra reconcile and marry, with Antony divorcing Octavia. Octavian, incensed, reads Antony's will to the Roman senate, revealing that Antony wishes to be buried in Egypt. Rome turns against Antony, and Octavian's call for war against Egypt receives a rapturous response. The war is decided at the naval Battle of Actium on September 2, 31 BC, where Octavian's fleet, under the command of Agrippa, defeats the lead ships of the Antony-Egyptian fleet. Cleopatra assumes that Antony is dead and orders the Egyptian forces home. Antony follows her, leaving the rest of his fleet leaderless and soon defeated.

Several months later, Cleopatra sends Cesarion under disguise out of Alexandria. She manages to convince Antony to resume command of his troops and fight Octavian's advancing army. However, Antony's soldiers abandon him during the night. Rufio, the last man loyal to Antony, kills himself. Antony tries to goad Octavian into single combat, but is finally forced to flee into the city. When Antony returns to the palace, Apollodorus, in love with Cleopatra himself, tells him she is in her tomb as she had instructed, and lets Antony believe she is dead. Antony falls on his own sword. Apollodorus then confesses that he misled Antony and assists him to the tomb where Cleopatra and two servants have taken refuge. Antony dies in Cleopatra's arms.

Octavian and his army march into Alexandria with Caesarion's dead body in a wagon. He discovers the dead body of Apollodorus, who had poisoned himself. Octavian receives word that Antony is dead and that Cleopatra is holed up in a tomb. There he offers to allow her to rule Egypt as a Roman province if she will accompany him to Rome. Cleopatra, knowing that her son is dead, agrees to Octavian's terms, including an empty pledge on the life of her son not to harm herself. After Octavian departs, she orders her servants in coded language to assist with her suicide. Octavian discovers that she is going to kill herself and he and his guards burst into Cleopatra's chamber to find her dead, dressed in gold, along with her servants and the asp that killed her.

####The Climbers####
The action takes place in Spain and Puerto Rico during the early 19th-century reign of Ferdinand VII. The Duchess of Arrogan (Irene Rich) is the victim of the machinations of court "climber" Countess Veya (Myrna Loy).  The Countess arranges to hide the king's enemy, Duke Cordova (Forrest Stanley) in the Duchess's room where he is discovered resulting in the banishment of both to the colony of Puerto Rico, and the Duchess's estrangement from her powerful husband. In exile the Duchess successfully but cruelly manages her extensive land holdings, nursing bitterness against all men, while Cordova becomes the bandit El Blanco. The two are thrown together and begin an affair. The Duchess's daughter Laska (Florence Fair) arrives, fleeing an unwelcome marriage to which the death of her father has left her vulnerable. Laska is kidnapped and rescued. The Duchess has a happy resolution, reunited with her daughter and Cordova.

####The Clock####
A small-town soldier, Joe Allen (Robert Walker), on a 48-hour leave, meets Alice Mayberry (Judy Garland) in crowded Pennsylvania Station when she trips over his foot and breaks the heel off one of her shoes.

Although it is Sunday, Joe gets a shoe-repair shop owner to open his store and repair her shoe. Alice asks Joe where he is going, and he says he is on leave but has no definite destination while in New York. He asks to accompany her on her way home atop a double-decker bus, and she points out landmarks along the way, including the Central Park Zoo and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, both of which they stop and visit.

When he asks her whether she is busy that evening, she says that she is. However, when he persists, and chases the bus she is riding down the street, she relents, promising to meet him under the clock at the Astor Hotel.

Although her roommate chastises Alice for "picking up" a soldier, Alice keeps her date with Joe, arriving late, and the two have dinner.

Having missed the last bus home, they accept a ride with a milk man named Al Henry (James Gleason). When Al's truck has a flat tire, he and his passengers visit a lunch room to call for assistance. A drunk strikes Al, blackening his eye, and after the company's road repairman has changed the truck's tire, Alice and Joe spend the night delivering milk to their benefactor's customers. Later, they take Al home, where Al's wife invites them to join them for breakfast.

Alice and Joe agree to spend the day together before he must return to his base. However, on the way to her office so she can make arrangements for her absence, they become separated in the crowd while boarding a subway train. They try frantically to find one another, but they don't even know each other's last name. They finally reunite by returning to the place where they first met - the escalator at Penn Station.

Having professed their love, Joe asks Alice to marry him before his departure that evening, and she consents. They run a maze of red tape and regulations,  which nearly prevent them from doing so. Through their perseverance, they win over bureaucrats upon whom their success or failure depends.

Afterwards, Alice is sad, because she thinks that the hurried ceremony was "ugly". Only after they repeat their vows alone in a church pew does Alice feel truly married. They spend their honeymoon night at a hotel and have a final breakfast together. After Alice sees Joe off at Penn Station, as his leave ends and he returns to war, she heads back out into the crowded city.

####Closer####
During a busy morning in London, writer Dan Woolf meets a beautiful American woman after she is hit by a car, not used to the direction of traffic in England. On their walk back from the hospital, they stop by Postman's Park. Dan asks her name, which she gives as Alice Ayres. They soon become lovers.

A year later, Dan has written a novel based on Alice's life. While being photographed to publicise it, he flirts with the American photographer Anna Cameron. They share a kiss before Alice arrives. While she uses the bathroom, Dan tries to persuade Anna to have an affair with him but their conversation is cut short by Alice's return. Alice then asks Anna if she can have her portrait taken as well. Anna agrees, and Alice asks Dan to leave them alone during the photoshoot. While being photographed, she reveals to Anna that she overheard them, and she is photographed while crying. Alice doesn't tell Dan what she heard and their relationship continues, but Dan spends a year brooding over his interest in Anna.

Another year later, Dan enters a cybersex chat room and converses with Larry Gray, a British dermatologist. With Anna still on his mind, Dan pretends to be her, and invites Larry to meet at the aquarium, where Anna told Dan she often went. Larry goes to the rendezvous, where he by chance meets Anna and learns that he is the victim of a prank. Anna tells Larry that Dan was most likely to blame for the setup. Soon, Anna and Larry become a couple.

Four months later at Anna's photo exhibition, Larry meets Alice, whom he recognises from the photograph of her in tears, which is being exhibited. Larry knows that Alice and Dan are a couple from talking to Anna. Dan persuades Anna to become involved with him. They cheat on their respective lovers for a year, even though Anna and Larry marry halfway through the year. Eventually Anna and Dan each confess the affair to their respective partners, leaving their relationships for one another.

Heartbroken by her loss, Alice becomes a stripper once again. One day, Larry runs into her accidentally at the strip club. He asks her real name, and she tells him it is Jane Jones. He asks her to have sex with him, but she refuses. Later, Larry and Anna meet for coffee. She asks him to sign their divorce papers, and he bargains with her- she agrees to sleep with him so that he will sign the documents and thereafter leave her alone. Anna and Dan later meet and, after she reveals to him that the divorce papers have been signed, Dan realizes she has had sex with Larry. She claims she did it so he would leave them alone, but Dan is furious and does not trust her.

A distraught Dan later confronts Larry to try to get Anna back. Larry tells him Anna never filed the signed divorce papers and suggests that he return to Alice. Alice takes Dan back and they plan a visit to the United States for a vacation. While in a hotel room at Gatwick Airport celebrating being back together, they talk about the way they met. After bringing up Larry, Dan asks her whether she had sex with him. She initially denies it but a short while later, she says she doesn't love him anymore and that she did sleep with Larry. Dan forgives her but Alice insists that it's over and tells him to leave. The argument culminates in Dan slapping Alice.


At the conclusion of the film, Larry and Anna are together, and Alice returns to New York City alone. As she passes through the immigration checkpoint on her way back into the States, a shot of her passport shows her real name to be Jane Jones, revealing she had lied about her name during her entire four-year relationship with Dan but had told the truth to Larry, even though he didn't believe her.  Back in London, Dan returns to Postman's Park and notices the name Alice Ayres on the tiles of the Memorial to Heroic Self-Sacrifice. The Ayres dedication is to a young woman, "who by intrepid conduct" and "at the cost of her own young life," rescued three children from a fire.

The final scene, which resembles the first, shows Jane walking on a New York street alone being stared at by several of the men around her. She crosses a crosswalk that appears to have a "Don't Walk" signal up.

####Closing the Ring####
In rural Michigan in 1991, Marie Harris (Neve Campbell) delivers the eulogy at the funeral of her father Chuck (David Alpay), a U.S. Army Air Force veteran who had fought in World War II. The church is full of veterans who knew and loved him. Her mother Ethel Ann (Shirley MacLaine) is sitting out on the church porch, smoking and nursing a hangover.

Ethel Ann is totally indifferent about Chuck's death, which only her friend Jack Etty (Christopher Plummer) seems to understand. Marie is furious with her mother and with her implication that she slept with many of the veterans when they were all young, but then Ethel relents and says that she was always faithful. It quickly emerges that there is a lot Marie does not know about her mother's past and the true story of her love life.

A young Ethel Ann (Mischa Barton) was in love with young farmer, Teddy Gordon (Stephen Amell), who builds a house with his best friends Jack and Chuck. Her parents think she is dating "good old reliable" Chuck (all three are in love with her), but within days of the Pearl Harbor attack, she has accepted Teddy's gold ring and unofficially married him &ndash; with Jack and Chuck as witnesses. The three young men fly out the next day. Teddy and Jack are stationed at RAF Langford Lodge near Belfast, where Jack eventually plans to propose to Eleanor (Kirsty Stuart), an Irish tart.

Jimmy Riley (Martin McCann), Eleanor's young adult grandson, is in 1991 Belfast when he encounters local elder Michael Quinlan (Pete Postlethwaite), who is digging for wreckage of a crashed B-17 aircraft on nearby Black Mountain. Jimmy finds a ring at the site, becoming determined to return it to the woman from the "Ethel & Teddy" inscription. The U.S. VA identify an Ethel that crash victim Teddy Gordon left his belongings to.

Inadvertently caught up in The Troubles, Jimmy flees Belfast, travelling to Michigan to give Ethel the ring. She reveals a wall covered in souvenirs of Teddy, which Jack and Chuck boarded up for her shortly after his death in June 1944. Marie is shocked and furious to learn that her mother still mourns for him, finally understanding why Ethel shut out Marie and Chuck. Jack later tells her the full story, including his own three failed marriages (his son, Pete (Allan Hawco), soon realizes Jack always loved Ethel), her refusal to leave the house Teddy built for her, and her taking ten years to marry Chuck.

Ethel Ann travels to Belfast with Jimmy. As she holds the hand of a British soldier killed in an IRA car-bomb attack, Quinlan confesses to Ethel Ann that he, as a teenager, was on Black Mountain when Teddy died. Teddy made him promise to give her the ring and tell her she must be free to make her own choice in love. A tearful Quinlan tells her he should have reached out to her back then, and that he spent 50 years looking for the ring that was lost in the final blast that killed Teddy, regretfully (now) thinking she needed it as much as she needed his dying words.

Joining Ethel in Belfast, Jack finally admits that he has always loved her. She is finally able to cry and properly grieve for Teddy. She and Jack embrace lovingly, completing her sweep through Teddy and his two best friends.

####Coast Guard####
Lieutenant Raymond "Ray" Dower commands a United States Coast Guard cutter. His best friend in the Coast Guard, Lieutenant Thomas "Speed" Bradshaw, is a highly regarded, but reckless pilot. In a daring rescue at sea, both men are involved in saving Tobias Bliss, the captain of a tramp steamer. At the base hospital, the two officers visit the rescued man and meet Nancy, his granddaughter. Both friends fall in love with her, but Speed proposes first; broken-hearted, Ray still acts as the best man at the wedding.

The marriage falters, and when Nancy is fed up with many nights alone, she leaves Speed. In trying to win her back, Speed crashes while stunting over her house. Grounded and facing a court-martial, the disgraced pilot finds out that his best friend is missing while on an Arctic rescue mission. Nancy coaxes Speed and his co-pilot, O'Hara, to attempt a rescue, and after a harrowing crash-landing in the Arctic, an injured Ray is located. Speed manages a dangerous takeoff and flies his friend back home, to find a relieved Nancy waiting for him.

####Cobra Woman####
The beautiful Tollea is abducted and taken to Cobra Island, where she discovers that the Queen is her grandmother. Hava warns the angered Ramu not to go after her, but he sets sail for the forbidden island, with his young friend Kado accompanying him as a stowaway.

A panther attacks Ramu, who is saved by a dart from Kado's deadly blowgun. They continue the search for Tollea, unaware that the high priestess of the island is Naja, her twin sister. The queen has ordered Tollea to be forcibly returned to Cobra Island only so she can displace her evil sister.

Ramu mistakenly becomes involved with Naja, who falls in love with him. Kado is captured and tortured by the brutal Martok, but refuses to reveal Ramu's whereabouts. Martok proceeds to murder the Queen.

When they finally meet, Naja attempts to kill her sister with a spear, but plunges to her own death instead. The evil Martok insists that Tollea perform a forbidden cobra dance, whereupon the island's volcano begins to violently erupt. It ceases when Martok is killed by Hava. When Ramu is about to return home, Tollea asks him to remain by her side and help her rule Cobra Island.

####A Cold Wind in August####
Iris (Lola Albright), a woman with a background as a burlesque show stripper, is visited at her New York City apartment by her estranged husband. He requests that she star in an upcoming show in Newark, New Jersey for which he is obliged to supply performers. She resists the idea as she maintains her privacy by not working in shows local to the New York area.  However, her husband is desperately in need of assistance. While she has no romantic feelings for him, expressing puzzlement as to why she ever married him, she nonetheless is friendly with him and feels sorry for his predicament, so she agrees to consider it.

In the meantime, Iris meets Vito Perugino (Scott Marlowe), the 17-year-old son of the superintendent of the apartment building (Joe De Santis) and experiences an instant and powerful physical attraction to him. In their first meeting, she is shamelessly flirtatious; in their second, she completes her sexual seduction of him, marking the start of a passionate affair between the two. Iris unexpectedly finds herself experiencing an emotional attraction on top of her sexual one and a relationship she had originally intended to be brief turns serious. Vito asks Iris "to go steady" with him, and though she laughs a bit the teenager's use of that phrase to describe a committed relationship, she nonetheless happily accepts.

After Vito's immaturity brings turbulence into the relationship in the form of jealousy, Iris makes an attempt to pull away from him, but the attempt only serves to make her miserable.  She finds herself obsessed and wanting nothing but to return to him and resume a sexual and emotional satisfaction she's never experienced with any other man. She returns to Vito and they begin to patch their relationship, declaring their love for one another, but Vito is still unaware of her occupation, believing her to be a model or actress.

When Iris performs in the Newark burlesque show, one of Vito's friends sees her and informs Vito. He initially refuses to believe it, but he attends the next night's show and sees for himself. With his youth, Vito lacks the ability to cope with the destruction of his idealistic view of Iris, and an explosive, and even momentarily violent, argument ensues between the two.

After a week, Iris reaches out to Vito, hoping to make up with him by inviting him to her apartment for dinner. But upon his arrival, she quickly realizes that his interest in her has waned. While he had been sincere in his declarations of love for her, those feelings of "love" were just as prone to be fleeting as with any typical 17-year-old inexperienced in romantic relationships. Although he is no longer angry with Iris over her occupation, the discovery and subsequent argument have been enough so that even as his temper cooled, so did his passion for the relationship.

Continuing to be sincere in expressing his feelings for her, Vito acknowledges what Iris has sensed. He is truly sorry for the pain that it is causing her and tries his best to console her, telling her that he wishes the fight between them that changed his feelings had not happened. But beyond that, there is nothing else he can do. Lest Vito have any doubt, the devastated Iris assures him that her love for him was, and still is, genuine. With that, Vito leaves, on his way to a date with the new object of his romantic attention – a girl his own age – and Iris is left alone sobbing.

####Colonia####
In 1973, Lena is a strong, independent and adventurous Lufthansa stewardess and is in relationship with Daniel, a West German journalist and activist living in Chile. Upon arrival in Santiago, she reunites with him and they spend their days in the capital peacefully.

One day, the two become entangled in a Chilean military coup at a time when supporters of deposed President Salvador Allende are getting rounded up by the military under General Augusto Pinochet. When Daniel is abducted by Pinochet's secret police DINA, Lena tries to find and save him. The pursuit leads her to "Colonia Dignidad", an isolated secret organisation living in a sealed-off rural farmland and enclave near the Andes mountains. The organisation presents itself as a charitable mission run by Paul Schäfer, a former "Wehrmacht" colonel and army medic who evaded capture and trial following World War II by disguising himself as a Lutheran pastor and lay minister, later fleeing to Chile to build the organisation.

Lena joins the organisation to rescue Daniel, only to learn it is a cult that combines Baptist-style tenets, punitive agrarian lifestyles, Nazism, and aggressive anti-Communism, from which no one has ever escaped. She witnesses Doro, a fellow member, get brutally beaten and humiliated at the men's section after it is revealed that she wanted to marry another cult member. Lena skinny dips in a nearby pond in order to brought over to the men's section for the same punishments so that she can find Daniel. After a power outage, she later finds him; he has acted mentally disabled so he would be overlooked. When they reunite, the couple discover the organisation is also an illegal operations centre for DINA, who also use it as a political prison, trafficking ring, and torture venue for dissidents of Pinochet.

With the help of a pregnant nurse named Ursel, Lena and Daniel attempt to escape from Colonia Dignidad. During the escape, they are discovered and Ursel is killed but Lena and Daniel escape to the West German embassy. Staff from the embassy betray them but they exit the country by air, with incriminating photographic evidence against Colonia Dignidad.

####The Colored American Winning His Suit####
An ex-slave prospers and eventually buys the Virginia estate of his former master. He sends his son Bob to Howard University, where he becomes a lawyer.

When Bob comes home, he meets his sister Bessie's classmate and friend Alma Eaton. They fall in love, but her parents have chosen another man for her, Jim Sample. Bowing to her parents' wishes, Alma breaks up with Bob. However, when Alma's father is charged with theft at the behest of business rival Mr. Hinderus, Bob comes to the rescue and is rewarded with Alma's hand in marriage.

####Come See the Paradise####
In the early 1950s, Lily Kawamura tells her pre-adolescent daughter Mini about her father and the life that she barely remembers, as the two of them are walking to a rural train station.

In 1936, Jack McGurn is a motion picture projectionist, involved in a campaign of harassment against non-union theaters in New York City.  One such attack turns fatal, as one of his fellow union members starts a fire.  McGurn's boss, knowing that the feelings of guilt would likely cause Jack to go to the police, urges him to leave the city. Jack moves to Los Angeles where his brother Gerry lives.  Jack's role as a "sweatshop lawyer" strains an already-rocky relationship with Gerry who is willing to have any job, barely keeping his family afloat during the Great Depression.

Taking the name McGann, Jack finds a job as a non-union projectionist in a movie theater run by a Japanese American family by the name of Kawamura. He falls in love with Lily, his boss' daughter. Forbidden to see one another by her Issei parents and banned from marrying by California law, the couple elopes to Seattle, where they marry and have a daughter, Mini.

When World War II breaks out, Lily and their daughter are caught up in the Japanese American internment, rounded up and sent to Manzanar, California.  Jack, away on a trip, is drafted into the United States Army with no chance to help his family prepare for their imprisonment.

Finally visiting the camp, he arranges a private meeting with his wife's father, telling him that he has gone AWOL and wants to stay with them, whatever they have to go through.  They are "his" family now and he belongs with them.  The older man counsels him to return to the Army, and says that he now believes that Jack is truly in love with Lily, and a worthy husband.

Returning, ready to face his punishment for desertion, he is met by FBI agents, who have identified "McGann" as being the McGurn wanted for his part in the arson of years before.

Finally, in the 1950s, the train arrives and Lily and Mini reunite with Jack, who has served his time in prison and is now returning to his family.

####Comet Over Broadway####
Eve Appleton (Francis), wife of small-town garage owner Bill Appleton (Litel), has theatrical ambitions. Bill gets into an argument with a visiting actor over her, kills him accidentally, and is sent to prison. Eve, realizing her part in Bill's fate, vows to right matters, and taking her baby daughter, goes away to make her way in the theatre.

Later, Eve is forced to leave her baby girl with her friend Mrs. "Tim" Adams (Gombell). Bert Ballin (Hunter) befriends her and they fall in love, but she moves abroad and becomes a star. Back in America, as the "Toast of Broadway", she is brought back to a realization of her former vows by Joe Grant (Crisp), her hometown lawyer.

####Comfort and Joy####
Jane Berry is a successful, single entrepreneur who is vice president of ad agency, has a luxury apartment, and drives a Jaguar.

On Christmas, when she is driving to a company party, she gets lost and hits a pole. Sam (Steven Eckholdt) comes to her rescue to get her out of her car (which is now a station wagon) and tells her that he has been her husband for the past 10 years and she has two children with him. Jane realizes that she is in an alternate reality. Ten years ago, she dumped her boyfriend and left her job for Sam. Jane is confused by her new world, where she is a new Jane who is completely different from the old one.

Slowly, Jane acclimates her new life. After an argument with her parents at Christmas dinner, she is completely impressed by Sam and her family. She kisses Sam but finds herself back the Jaguar after the accident. Sam comes to her rescue, but he doesn't know who she is. She tells Sam that she knows him and is in love with him, which Sam is shocked to hear. They move together to Sam's house to lead a happy life in the future.

####The Coming of Amos####
As described in a film magazine reviews, Amos Burden's mother dies and leaves him 50,000 pounds and the richest sheep farm in Australia. He leaves his home for that of his uncle, David Fontenay, who lives on the continent. The uncle, fastidious, tidy, and high in social circles, is distressed by the ingenious and uncouth Amos. Fontenay's friends, with the exception of the Princess Nadia, are amused by Amos. The Princess favors him, however, and Amos woos her, ignorant of the tales of the disaster that befell each of her former suitors. Under the tutelage of the aesthete Bendyke Hamilton, Amos becomes a gentleman so far as externals go and he progresses well with the Princess. Then out of the past appears Ramon Garcia with a threat of suffering for the Princess if she does not redeem a promise made to him. The Princess, fearful of Garcia, puts off his promise until the night of the Rose Carnival. Garcia swears to take her by force on this night if she fails him. To escape Garcia's wrath, the Princess pretends a loss of interest for Amos. Then follow hectic days for the two men and the woman involving duels and hair-fine escapes from death. In the end Garcia is killed and Amos and his Princess bride are united.

####The Common Law####
Valerie West is a young American expatriate living with her wealthy lover, Dick Carmedon, in Paris. Tired of the relationship, she moves out, after which she meets struggling American artist John Neville. She begins posing nude for him. At first the relationship is purely business, but the two soon fall in love, and she moves in with him. The two begin to live an idyllic life, despite Carmedon's attempts to get Valerie back.

Unbeknownst to Valerie, Neville is a member of a wealthy, socially prominent family from Tarrytown, New York. Sam, a friend of Neville's, tells him about Valerie's past relationship with Carmedon. Valerie confirms it is true, but states that she left Carmedon before she met Neville. Disillusioned, Neville changes his mind about proposing to her. Valerie calls him a hypocrite and breaks up with him.

Later, Neville runs into Valerie at a nightclub, where she is out with Querido. Neville leaves in disgust. Valerie follows, jumping into his taxi and going home with him. Very soon, he proposes marriage. She asks him to wait, wanting to make sure that their feelings for one another are for real before making what she hopes will be a life-long commitment. When Clare Collins, Neville's sister, hears about the situation from friends returning from Europe, she informs Neville that their father is very ill (he only has a cough) and insists that he return home.

Neville brings Valerie with him to the family estate. Clare throws a party on the family yacht, to which she invites Carmedon and an old girlfriend of Neville's, Stephanie Brown. Neville's father tells Valerie he approves of her; he can see that his son is happy and more confident. Fed up with Clare's obvious attempts to split up the couple, Valerie turns in for the night. A drunk Carmedon barges into her stateroom, but she pushes him out, in full view of Clare. Neville helps Carmedon to his room and, behind closed doors, punches him. Then, he informs Valerie that they are going to find a justice of the peace to marry them.

####The Competition####
Paul Dietrich, a gifted but disillusioned classical pianist, is nearly 30 years old. He has never won a major piano competition and will soon be past the age limit to compete. Paul has accepted a job as a music teacher at a prep school in his hometown of Chicago, needing to help his mother and ailing father. However, he decides to compete one final time at an international piano competition in San Francisco, even though it could cost him the job.

The competition for a financial grant and two years of concert engagements pits the intense and arrogant Paul against a select group of talented artists. He advances to the final round of six, which includes brash New Yorker Jerry DiSalvo, who can only play one concerto; Michael Humphries; Canadian pianist Mark Landau; and a meek Kazakh girl, Tatiana Baronova.

Another contestant, Heidi Joan Schoonover, is a confident 23-year-old from Massachusetts who was romantically attracted to Paul after meeting him at an earlier music festival. Heidi's esteemed music teacher, Greta Vandemann, advises her to avoid letting personal matters hinder her concentration. Heidi is rebuffed by Paul, who also wants to avoid any distraction.

Before the finals, Tatiana's music teacher defects, causing the emotionally fragile Tatiana to have a nervous breakdown and the competition to be postponed for a week. Meanwhile, Paul's mother wants him to withdraw from the competition and focus on the teaching job, as his father is very ill and should no longer be working to support Paul's musical ambitions. Paul stays in the competition but feels guilty. He lashes out at Heidi during a meeting with the other contestants and the arrogant conductor.

Paul later apologizes to Heidi and they have a coffee date. Afterwards, at his hotel room, he pours his heart out to her about his family situation. Greta worries that Heidi and Paul's relationship may cost Heidi her competitive edge.

The competition is rescheduled. A reception for the contestants unexpectedly turns into a press conference for Tatiana, who is returning to the competition after meeting with her teacher. Paul is infuriated, believing sympathy for Tatiana is making her the favorite to win the competition. He criticizes Heidi for defending Tatiana and accuses her of not taking the competition seriously. Heidi realizes how much winning means to Paul and wants to drop out. Greta angrily chastises Paul, blaming him for exploiting Heidi's guilt over competing against him.

Paul tells Heidi that he loves her and persuades her to stay in the competition. Partway through her performance, Heidi's piano develops a technical problem, forcing her to stop. Rather than folding under pressure, Heidi demands to play a different concerto, requiring an orchestral rearrangement. She performs magnificently and wins the competition; Paul finishes in second place.

Heidi is ecstatic because she and Paul had agreed to form a partnership, combining their talents and resources to help one another, no matter who won. To her dismay, Paul is upset to realize that she is a more proficient player. He tells her he is unable to honor their partnership and leaves. However, Paul finally arrives at the celebration party following the competition, ready to take part in Heidi's victory and to be in her life.

####The Conquering Power####
After the death of his father, young dandy Charles Grandet (Rudolph Valentino) is taken under the care of his uncle, Monsieur Grandet (Ralph Lewis). The miserly Grandet, despite being the wealthiest man in his province, forces his family to live in poverty and schemes to cheat his nephew out of his inheritance from his father.

Charles falls in love with Grandet's daughter Eugenie (Alice Terry) but Grandet condemns their love, and sends Charles away. While Charles is away, Grandet kills Eugenie's mother, which sends him further into a maddened state. Later, it is revealed that Eugenie is not really Monsieur Grandet's daughter; if she knew, then she could reclaim all of the gold that originally belonged to her mother, leaving her father penniless. Monsieur Grandet has a violent argument with Eugenie, after she finds letters sent by Charles that her father had hidden, and Monsieur Grandet accidentally locks himself in a small room where he keeps his gold. He starts hallucinating and is eventually killed after becoming frantic.

Eugenie is now left an extremely wealthy young lady, which only intensifies the pressure put on her by two competing families to marry one of the suitors. She announces her engagement, but shortly after is reunited with Charles.

####Conquest####
Napoleon Bonaparte (Charles Boyer) launches an unsuccessful seduction of the Countess Marie Walewska (Greta Garbo), who is married to a much older man (Henry Stephenson), but she resists until convinced that giving in will save Poland. After her husband annuls their marriage and Napoleon divorces the Empress Josephine, the pair are free to formalize their happy relationship, but Napoleon shocks her by announcing his decision to wed the Archduchess Marie Louise of Austria for political reasons. While he doesn't expect it to impact his relationship with Marie, she leaves him, without ever telling him that she is expecting his child.

####The Conspirators####
During World War II, a schoolteacher, Vincent Van Der Lyn (Paul Henreid), who becomes a Dutch resistance fighter, causes so much trouble for the Nazis that they place a bounty on his head. As a result, he is ordered by his superiors to travel to England via neutral Lisbon.

On Van Der Lyn's arrival, Police Captain Pereira (Joseph Calleia) notes that his passport has no exit stamp on it, indicating that he sneaked across the border, but reassures the traveler that all that matters is that the Portuguese visa is in order. The German agent Otto Lutzke (Kurt Katch) becomes suspicious, informs his superiors and starts tailing the Dutchman.

At a restaurant, Van Der Lyn is pleasantly surprised when a beautiful stranger, Irene Von Mohr (Hedy Lamarr), sits down at his table. Moments before, Irene had passed a card to a man in a nearby alley, only to see him shot in the back. She flees into the restaurant, but as the police arrive to search the place, she quickly sits down at Van Der Lyn's table to throw off suspicion. She describes herself to him as merely a frequent gambler at the Casino Estoril. She excuses herself, supposedly to make a telephone call, but never returns. The Dutchman goes to the aforementioned casino where he finds Irene. As she warns him to stay away from her, they are joined by Hugo Von Mohr (Victor Francen), who is a high-ranking German diplomatic official, and Lutzke. The Germans soon identify Van Der Lyn as the saboteur nicknamed the "Flying Dutchman."

Van Der Lyn meets his contact, Ricardo Quintanilla (Sydney Greenstreet), who introduces him to other members of his resistance group: the Pole Jan Bernazsky (Peter Lorre), the Norwegian Anton Wynat (an uncredited Gregory Gaye), and the Frenchman Paulo Leiris. Quintanilla asks him to brief Jennings (an uncredited Monte Blue), Van Der Lyn's replacement. In private, Quintanilla warns the newcomer that he suspects one of their group to be a traitor.

The next day, when Irene gets into her automobile, Van Der Lyn invites himself along for the ride. At first annoyed, she gradually warms to him, and they spend the day together. He professes that he is in love with her. She tells him that she married Hugo after he rescued her from Dachau concentration camp.

When Van Der Lyn returns to his hotel room, he finds Jennings slumped over the desk. Jennings is able to give him a message regarding an "eagle" before he dies. Acting on a false tip, the police arrest him for the murder of Jennings. A distraught Irene tells Captain Pereira that the Dutchman was with her all that day but declines to testify in court. When she visits Van Der Lyn in jail, he accuses her of framing him.

Van Der Lyn jumps a guard and manages to escape. Irene finds him and offers to take him to Quintanilla. She reveals that she is a resistance fighter as well. His suspicions towards Irene are softened after she gives him a gun. When they reach Quintanilla and the others, they charge him with being a traitor. Van Der Lyn himself concedes that they would be foolish if they did not kill him. However, when he mentions Jennings's dying message to Quintanilla, which warns that his killers have taken the "eagle," a rare coin that was to have been used to identify him, and something that Van Der Lyn had not been told, they know he must be telling the truth. Hugo is then revealed to be part of the underground group.

Quintanilla decides to set a trap by informing the group that Jennings's replacement is in the casino hotel since he knows that the Germans will move to eliminate him to plant their own agent successfully. Pereira spots Van Der Lyn but is persuaded to trust him and wait a few minutes for the real murderer to be revealed. Fifteen minutes before the resistance group members are to meet the new man, when they are gathered at a roulette table along with known Nazi agents, Quintanilla tells all in the group the new man's room number, 865. With time running out, Hugo places bets on 8, 6, and 5, revealing that he is the traitor. Quintanilla and the others escort him away, but he manages to escape from them fleeing the casino, where he is killed in a shootout with Van Der Lyn and Captain Pereira who have been pursuing him. Van Der Lyn finds the eagle in one of Hugo's pockets.

Vincent Van Der Lyn decides to return to occupied Europe in Jennings's place. Irene promises to wait to learn of his safe passage across the border, and Vincent promises to come back to her.

####The Constant Nymph####
Belgian composer Lewis Dodd's latest symphony has flopped. Seeking new inspiration, he travels to a Swiss chalet to visit his mentor, Albert Sanger, and his family. Sanger's four young daughterssndKate, Toni, Tessa and Paulasndhave a crush on Dodd. Tessa, particularly, believes that someday, when she is old enough, he will recognize the depth of her affection for him. Lewis brings out his newest work, a symphonic poem called “Tomorrow,” which he has composed for the Sanger girls to play. Albert himself is far more pleased with this “trifle” than with Lewis’s noisy modernist symphony. However, shortly afterwards, the elderly, hard-drinking Sanger dies while orchestrating Lewis’s “little tune", a task which Dodd now vows to complete himself.

While remaining with the Sangers to help the family cope with their loss, Lewis renews an acquaintance with the beautiful, sophisticated Florence Creighton. Later, Lewis asks her to marry him. Tessa collapses at the news. Only her closest sister, Paula, understands why. Six months later, Florence and Lewis are in London, living in her father‘s large townhouse. They are taking care of Tessa and Paula, who now attend a boarding school. Both girls find the experience unbearable. After they run away, a worried Lewis notifies Scotland Yard. But the elusive Tessa and Paula arrive at the townhouse, just in time to witness Lewis's private performance of "Tomorrow."  Much to everyone's disappointment, Lewis has taken the beautiful melody and buried it under a modernist “bangety bang” racket. As a result, even Lewis himself is convinced that more changes are needed before the scheduled concert of the piece is to take place. He thus asks Tessa to stay and help him remember the more Romanticist conception of "Tomorrow" as originally envisioned by Sanger.

A few weeks later, it is the day of the concert. While dressing for the occasion, Tessa, who has a history of cardiac problems, suffers a fainting spell. Florence, who has become jealous of Tessa's close collaborative relationship with Lewis, convinces her she cannot attend. She might have palpitations and cause a scene. So Tessa remains in the townhouse's study, where she listens to a radio broadcast of the new version of "Tomorrow" as it is performed before an audience. Before the composition's end, however, she collapses to the floor and dies. At the concert hall, the presentation is met with a long ovation. Lewis rushes home to tell Tessa of their success but instead witnesses the sight of Tessa's body lying on the study floor. Lewis calls her name and embraces her, his face wet with tears. The film's score climaxes as a log in the fireplace seems to spark, then flame, and then dissolve into a brilliant sky.

####The Constant Woman####
Marlene Underwood is a star circus performer, whose husband Walt buys the circus while their son Jimmie worships everything his mother does. Marlene leaves them both to go join a larger show, then is killed in a fire, resulting in Walt going into a downward spiral of alcohol and sorrow.

A woman called Lou helps restore Walt's faith in human nature, but she is resented by young Jimmie, who feels she is trying to take his mother's place. Walt gets back on his feet, but now must try to stop Jimmie from joining the circus himself.

####Constellation####
Returning to Huntsville, Alabama—a town that once held back their opportunities but now glistens as a modern, technology-based city—the Boxer family and its extended members discover in the memory of a loved one what binds them together.

When the beloved Carmel Boxer passes away, her entire family returns to the Deep South to celebrate her life and legacy. As the Boxer family comes together for the first time in many years, revelations of Carmel's painful past begin to force each person to address their pent-up emotions and true feelings for one another. The story chronicles the lives and loves of this African-American family as its members are forced to come to terms with a tumultuous past marked by an unrequited interracial affair. The film explores the way in which the family patriarch, Helms Boxer, must confront his demons amid the changing racial fabric of society and his own family.

####Corrina, Corrina####
In late 1950s Los Angeles, a quiet pot-luck wake is held for Annie Singer (Lynette Walden), who has died and left husband Manny (Ray Liotta) and daughter Molly (Tina Majorino). Manny's mother Eva (Erica Yohn) and father Harry (Don Ameche) and the other guests all leave and it is apparent that Manny is in for difficulty. Molly will refuses to speak due to the death of her mother , and there is a need for a housekeeper/nanny so that Manny can return to his shaky job writing commercial jingles for his best friend and boss, Sid (Larry Miller).

After one nanny washes out, Corrina Washington (Whoopi Goldberg) interviews for the position. Molly responds well to Corrina and Manny hires her. Very quickly a strong bond is formed between them. Corrina works out a system to "talk" with Molly without making her speak. Corrina sees the early struggles of life after Annie's passing, and Molly slowly begins to interact more with Corrina. Molly also begins to spend time with Corrina's family, who take her to church and welcome her into their home. At an office party, Manny is introduced to Jenny (Wendy Crewson), a perky  divorcee with two young sons. Manny is still struggling with losing Annie and is not ready to date. Corrina's sister Jevina encourages her to date a black man, Anthony, but Corrina isn't interested.

A frightened Molly returns to school where she is bullied for adding Corrina to her family picture. She runs into Corrina's arms at the end of the day, desperate to go home. That night, Molly awakes from a nightmare, Corrina and Manny run to her side but she is scared and angry. Corrina tells her she is allowed to be mad. Manny admits to her how hurt he is about losing Annie and how much he misses her too. That night Jevina chastises Corrina for pretending to become a part of this family.

A terrified Molly begs Corrina to let her stay home from school and she secretly agrees. Corrina spends more time with them, and soon she & Manny slowly discover they are more compatible with each other than with anyone else. He confides in her about Annie and she talks about her long gone former husband. They share a love of music and she even assists him on his new jingle. After a successful advertising campaign, he comes home with flowers for Molly as well as Corrina. Their private celebration is interrupted by a visit from Jenny, which Corrina takes as a cue that she is not meant to stay.

The next day, a flustered Corrina goes to work where Manny apologizes for Jenny's uninvited visit. As they say goodbye, they share a kiss on the cheek, which Manny's nosey neighbor sees. Corrina and Manny begin to fall in love and face prejudice as an interracial couple. Molly asks her grandfather Harry to make sure that Manny marries Corrina. That night, Corrina and Manny talk about their spouses and share a moonlight dance and kiss that is witnessed by Molly.

After weeks of playing hooky from school, Corrina tells Molly it's almost time for her to return, but Molly says she's not yet ready. Soon after, Manny finds out that Corrina has been letting Molly stay home from  school. In a fit of anger, he tells her that she is not Molly's mother and fires her, taking a heartbroken Molly home. Molly becomes withdrawn again, and Manny learns that Harry has died. After the funeral, he goes to visit Corrina at her house to tell her of Harry's passing and to properly apologize. After an unsuccessful talk, she overhears his not-so quiet prayers to God to help him out. She informs him that she quit and he assures her that she was replaced. They embrace and he begins to kiss her. She brings him inside to formally meet her family. Finally, Molly singing "This Little Light of Mine" in order to cheer up Eva, and eventually Eva joins  the joyful song. Soon Manny and Corrina return and Molly joyfully runs to Corrina.

####The Count of Monte Cristo####
In 1815, Edmond Dantès, second mate of a French merchant vessel, and his friend Fernand Mondego, a representative of the shipping company, seek medical help on Elba for their ailing captain. Napoleon Bonaparte is in exile on the island. Having kept his guardians from killing the pair, Bonaparte privately requests that Edmond deliver a letter to the mainland in exchange for his physician's services. Edmond is sworn to secrecy, but Fernand witnesses the exchange. In Marseille, the company owner, Morrell, commends Edmond for his bravery, promoting him to captain over first mate Danglars, who had given Edmond explicit orders not to land at Elba. Edmond thereafter states his intention to marry his girlfriend, Mercédès, whom Fernand lusts after.

Envious of Edmond’s good fortune, Fernand and Danglars inform on Edmond regarding Bonaparte's letter, which reveals information that could be used to aid Bonaparte's escape from Elba. Villefort, the city's chief magistrate, has Edmond arrested, but initially prepares to exonerate him until he learns the letter is addressed to his own father, Monsieur Clarion, a Bonapartist. He burns the letter and orders Edmond imprisoned in the Château d'If. Edmond escapes from Villefort and goes to Fernand for help, but Fernand instead turns him over to the pursuing gendarmes. Edmond is consigned to the island prison and its sadistic warden, Armand Dorleac. In exchange for persuading Mercédès that Edmond has been executed for treason and that she should take comfort in Fernand, Villefort has Fernand assassinate his father.

Six years later, Edmond is startled in his cell by an eruption in the ground revealing another prisoner, Abbé Faria, who has been imprisoned for 11 years after refusing to tell Bonaparte the whereabouts of the treasure of the Spada family. Faria has been digging an escape tunnel, but upon seeing that he is in Edmond's cell, he realizes he dug in the wrong direction. In exchange for Edmond's help digging a new tunnel, Faria educates him in a wide array of academic and martial disciplines. Faria is fatally injured in a tunnel cave-in, but before dying he gives Edmond a map to the treasure and implores him to use it only for good. Edmond escapes the prison by taking Faria's place in the disposal of his corpse, and is thrown into the sea, pulling Dorleac along with him and drowning him.

Wading ashore, Edmond encounters a band of pirates preparing to execute one of their own, Jacopo. Their leader, Luigi Vampa, decides justice and entertainment would be better served by pitting Edmond against Jacopo in a knife fight. Edmond wins but spares Jacopo, who swears himself to Edmond for life. They both work with the pirates until they arrive in Marseille. Edmond learns from Morrell, who does not recognize him, that Fernand and Danglars were complicit in his betrayal, and that Fernand and Mercédès wed shortly after Edmond was imprisoned. With Faria's map, he and Jacopo locate the treasure on the island of Montecristo. With his newfound wealth and comprehensive education, Edmond establishes himself in Parisian society as "The Count of Monte Cristo" with Jacopo as his manservant, and swears vengeance on those who conspired against him.

Edmond ingratiates himself to the Mondegos by staging the kidnap and rescue of their son, Albert. He lures Fernand, Villefort, and Danglars into a trap by letting slip the notion that he has located the treasure of Spada, and is shipping it through Marseille. His plans result in Danglars being caught red-handed in the act of theft, and Villefort being tricked into revealing his role in his father's death; both are arrested. Fernand is brought to financial ruin as Edmond has his gambling debts called in. Even though his appearance has changed dramatically, Edmond is recognized by Mercédès. Eventually, she softens him, and they rekindle their relationship. As Fernand prepares to flee, Mercédès reveals the only reason she married him was that she was pregnant with Albert, who is actually Edmond's son.

Edmond ambushes Fernand in the ruins of his family's country estate, having led him to believe that the treasure of Spada would be waiting for him. Albert intervenes when Edmond attempts to kill Fernand, but Mercédès tells him of his true parentage. Fernand attempts to flee, but changes his mind upon realizing that Edmond has everything and he has nothing, and challenges Edmond to a fight to the death; Edmond prevails.

Edmond purchases Château d'If, intending to raze it, but instead leaves it standing as he swears to Faria to use his vast resources for good and departs with his new family.

####Count Three and Pray####
Former brawler and womanizer Luke Fargo returns from the American Civil War to his Southern hometown a greatly changed man. Following his traumatic experience at the Battle of Vicksburg, he has become a minister, intent on rebuilding the town's only church, which burned down. He is greeted with disbelief by his friends, including Matty, and with outright hostility by the rest of the townsfolk, as he fought on the Union side. Particularly opposed to him is Yancey Huggins, who sees a threat to his iron-fisted control of the town. Huggins gets the aptly named Big to fight Fargo, but Fargo wins.

Fargo encounters two very different women from his past. Southern belle Georgina Descrais, impoverished by the war, tries to revive their romantic relationship, but he is not interested. Local madam Selma (an uncredited Jean Willes) is pleased by his return and  accepts him on his own terms. Meanwhile, teenage orphan tomboy Lissy, who has been living in the parsonage, initially dislikes him, but gradually her feelings undergo a reversal. She continues residing there, which causes Fargo a great deal of trouble, as the townspeople, aroused by Huggins, suspect him of falling back on his old scandalous ways. He does not help matters when he reluctantly gambles on a Sunday with prosperous businessman Albert Loomis, winning a horse race to obtain lumber for the church, and is goaded into fighting Yancey's men.

Finally, the bishop is called in to resolve the situation. He learns that Fargo, not knowing any better, had not been ordained. After hearing how much good Fargo has done in the community, the bishop makes him a real minister and then tries to get him to marry Lissy. When Fargo proves reluctant, the exasperated Lissy hands the bishop her rifle to prod the hesitant (though not unwilling) groom.

####A Country Wedding####
A few weeks before his very glamorous wedding to a famous actress, a country music singer returns to the small town in Texas where he grew up to sell his family's old house. There, he meets his childhood friend, Sarah, a cowgirl who owns a small ranch. With her, he rediscovers the joy of the simple things in life that he had forgotten.

####Crack in the Mirror####
In a run-down Paris dwelling, an angry Hagolin accuses mistress Eponine of seeing a man named Larnier behind his back. In a party at a stately home, prosperous attorney Lamerciere's guests include his longtime mistress Florence and his young law partner Claude.

Eponine attempts to murder Hagolin but fails. Larnier intervenes on her behalf and Eponine strangles the man with a scarf. The body is dismembered and dumped, then Eponine is placed under arrest.

Claude, who is secretly Florence's lover, feels that he deserves credit for much of Lamerciere's courtroom success. He leaps at the opportunity when Eponine asks him to defend her. Lamerciere remarks that Claude and Florence could do to him exactly what the accused woman and lover Larnier did to Hagolin.

In court, Lamerciere persuades Claude to allow him to deliver the closing argument. He paints such a lurid picture of Eponine's crime that results in her conviction. His gaze at Florence makes it clear that he knows that she has been unfaithful.

####Crazy/Beautiful####
Carlos Nuñez is a 17-year-old Mexican-American teen who lives in East LA who rides a bus four hours every day to attend school in the Pacific Palisades for a better education. A straight-A student, he has ambitions of attending the U.S. Naval Academy and becoming a pilot. On a day out with friends at the Santa Monica Pier, he meets Nicole Oakley, a classmate who is doing trash pickup at the beach as part of a DUI sentence. She is the daughter of a US congressman and lives in the upscale Palisades, but she is rebellious, hard-partying, and has a strained relationship with her father. Her troubles stem from her mother’s suicide when she was young, as well as the feeling of being unwanted by her father and his new wife. Despite their differences, Nicole and Carlos begin a relationship.

The relationship runs into obstacles that arise from their different backgrounds, as when Carlos invites Nicole to a family party and she feels out-of-place as the only white person there. She pulls a stunt that lands Carlos in detention; and when she tells him to lighten up, he angrily points out that she doesn’t appreciate the privileges she has. Despite the obstacles, their romance blossoms. Carlos tries to steer Nicole away from her drug and alcohol abuse, and Nicole arrange a flying lesson for Carlos, who dreams of being a pilot but has never been in a plane.

Nicole's father offers to help Carlos with his Congressional sponsorship to the Naval Academy, but cautions against dating his daughter because he doesn’t want to see Carlos dragged down by Nicole. Carlos's friends and family also look down on the relationship, fearing Nicole is a bad influence on him.

Feeling pressure from other peoples' expectations, Carlos breaks up with Nicole, sending her spiraling back into wild, drunken partying. One night, Carlos calls her and finds out she is getting drunk at a high school party. He goes to the party and saves her from a boy trying to take advantage of her. He drives her home, but they are stopped by the police.

As a result of this incident, Nicole's father and stepmother decide that she needs to go to a boarding school far from home. Carlos rescues Nicole and they run away together. While they are away, Nicole realizes she is obstructing Carlos's dreams, and decides it is time to face her problems so she can be better for Carlos and have a future with him. They return to her home, where she makes up with her father, who thanks Carlos for not listening to his advice to abandon Nicole. As the film ends, we see that Carlos has become a pilot with the United States Navy.

####The Criminal Code####
Six years of hard labor in the prison jute mill has taken its toll on young Graham, convicted of manslaughter after a drunken brawl. The penitentiary's doctor and psychiatrist recommends that he be offered a change of duties before psychological damage become irreversible. When the warden recalls that it was he, as district attorney, that helped put him behind bars, he makes him his valet. Graham enjoys the change, especially the company of the warden's pretty young daughter, Mary.

One of Graham's cellmates tries to escape with two others but one is a stool pigeon and inadvertently gives away the plan. The guards shoot dead one escapee. Ned Galloway, Graham's other cellmate, vows to avenge this death, planning to murder the informer and warning Graham to stay away from him. However, Graham walks in on the crime. Despite finding him with the body, the warden believes that Graham is not the murderer but knows who is. Promising him parole, the warden demands the name of the killer. Graham remains loyal to the Prisoner's Code of silence so the warden sends him to "the hole," hoping it will change his mind.

Mary returns from a trip and is shocked when she finds out Graham has been punished. She proclaims her love for him and urges his release. The warden promises to do so but meanwhile Captain Gleason is putting pressure on Graham to confess. Galloway is grateful that Graham has stayed true and arranges to be sent to the hole and protect him by killing Gleason, for whom he had a longstanding grudge.

####Cross Creek####
In 1928 in New York State, aspiring author Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings (Steenburgen) advises her husband that her last book was rejected by a publisher, she has bought an orange grove in Florida, and she is leaving him to go there. She drives to the nearest town alone, and arrives in time for her car to die. Local resident Norton Baskin (Peter Coyote) takes her the rest of the distance to a dilapidated and overgrown cabin attached to an even more overgrown orange grove. Despite Baskin's (and her own) doubts, she stays and begins to fix up the property.

The local residents of "the Creek" begin to interact with her. Marsh Turner (Rip Torn) comes around with his daughter Ellie (Dana Hill), a teenage girl who keeps a deer fawn as a pet named Flag. A black woman, Geechee (Alfre Woodard), arrives and offers to work for her, even though Rawlings insists she cannot pay her much. The grove languishes below her expectations and Rawlings writes another novel, hoping to get it published. A young married couple moves into a cabin on Rawlings's property. The woman is pregnant and they reject Rawlings's attempts to help them.

Rawlings employs the assistance of a few of the Creek residents, Geechee and Baskin, to unblock a vital irrigation vein for her grove, and it begins to improve. The young couple has their child. Ellie's deer grows older and escapes her pen, and Marsh foretells that the deer will have to be killed for eating all their food. Geechee's husband comes to stay with her after being released from prison, and Rawlings offers him a place to work in her grove, but he refuses and Rawlings asks him to leave.

Even though her husband drinks and gambles, Geechee goes to leave with him, and Rawlings admits she will be sad to see Geechee leave, after Geechee demands to know why Rawlings would allow a friend to make such a mistake. Geechee decides to stay after all after telling Rawlings that she should learn how to treat her friends better.

Rawlings submits her novel, a gothic romance, to Max Perkins, and it is rejected again. He writes to ask her to write stories about the people she describes so well in her letters instead of the English governess stories she has been writing. She does so immediately, beginning with the story of the young married couple (which eventually becomes "Jacob's Ladder," published in "Scribner's Magazine" in 1931).

During a visit to the Turners' home on Ellie's 14th birthday, Flag escapes his pen once more and Marsh is forced to shoot him after he eats the family's vegetables. Ellie screams at him in hatred, and Marsh goes on a bender, goes into town and attracts the sheriff's attention. The sheriff finds Marsh drinking moonshine with a shotgun across his lap and demands the gun. When Marsh offers it to him, the sheriff shoots him. The story becomes the basis for "The Yearling".

At Marsh’s funeral, Ellie blames Marjorie for both her father’s and Flag’s deaths and tells her to leave. Rejected and heartbroken, Rawlings leaves her home in a motorboat and rides down the waterways for several miles. After more than a day in complete isolation and loneliness out in the water, she returns to her home and is happily reunited with Geechee. A few nights later, Marjorie and Geechee find themselves battling to save their orange grove from the autumn frost. Her neighbors arrive to help her out, and among them are Ellie and her younger siblings. Ellie apologizes to Marjorie for her behavior towards her at her father’s funeral, stating that “good friends shouldn’t keep apart,” and they reconcile as friends again.

Max Perkins (Malcolm McDowell) visits and accepts her story "Jacob's Ladder" upon reading it. Baskin asks Rawlings to marry him, and she accepts after much hesitation about her independence. Rawlings realizes her profound attachment to the land at Cross Creek.

####Crossover####
Tech is the frontman of his streetball team (Enemy of the State) and he is determined to take down rival Jewelz (Philip "Hot Sauce" Champion) and his team Platinum. Before the game starts, Tech calls his friend Noah Cruise and convinces Cruise to participate in the game. Cruise is reluctant to play but Tech simply responds with "you owe me!", to which Cruise ends up agreeing to play. Enemy of the State loses the game and afterwards we see that although they are best friends, Tech and Cruise live in completely different environments. Cruise is a naturally talented basketball player who receives an athletic scholarship to UCLA. His mother has died and he has moved from a 7 Mile neighborhood in north Detroit to the prestigious Palmer Woods neighborhood to live with his grandmother. Although he is a skilled player, Cruise wishes to use his scholarship to become a medical doctor. Tech on the other hand, still lives in a run-down Detroit neighborhood where he has to help his mother pay for groceries and pay the bills.

During a day at work at Foot Locker, Cruise tells Tech that he has two tickets to his college's orientation in California and invites Tech. Tech then tries to give Cruise some money for playing in the game the night before but Cruise denies it, saying that he didn't play for money but instead to "return the favor" for Tech. Additionally, a girl named Eboni walks in and invites Tech to a tattoo party. While on their lunch break, sports agent and bookie Vaughn (who is the owner and overseer of the basketball games that Tech and his team play in) approaches Tech and Cruise in an attempt to persuade Cruise to join the NBA. Cruise has a reputation as one of the best basketball players in the state, so Vaughn tries to recruit Cruise at every chance he gets. Cruise mentions that he has no interest in the NBA and wants to be a Doctor after finishing college. Because of NCAA collegiate rules, a sports player cannot earn money from playing any outside sports. If they do, their scholarship is revoked. Vaughn mentions that Cruise could lose his scholarship off the fact that he played in the game the night before (as every player on the losing team still gets $1,000 each, which is what Tech tried to give Cruise earlier). Vaughn says that him not taking the money doesn't matter because Vaughn paid Tech and Tech paid the other members on the team. Cruise angrily leaves, but Tech calms him down and takes him to Eboni's party.

At the party, Eboni introduces Tech and Cruise to her friend Vanessa (Jewelz's ex-girlfriend). Vanessa and Cruise are instantly attracted to each other and start dancing. Tech tells Eboni his dreams about playing professional  basketball and getting his GED. Tech never went to the 12th grade, as he went to jail for 4 months for assault. Cruise tells Vanessa about how he is going to California for college to become a doctor, and they kiss. Cruise goes behind Tech's back and gives his second ticket to the orientation trip to Vanessa instead. When he tells Tech about it, Tech is not upset because he also asked Eboni to go with him as well.

Days later, Cruise and Vanessa go out to dinner where she reveals she is pregnant, which excites Cruise. Vaughn arrives and unsuccessfully tries to convince Cruise to join the NBA, while Vanessa secretly agrees.

While in Los Angeles, Tech is performing in a commercial that he was offered from a casting director. After the shoot is done, one of the workers tells Tech that he is not going to be in the commercial and that the work he did was simply stunt-double work. Vanessa and Cruise have lunch where Cruise proposes to Vanessa and out of excitement, she asks him if he is going to play in the NBA. Cruise tells Vanessa the true reason why he would rather be a doctor. The night Cruise's mother dies, a doctor at the hospital recognized him and said how he loved watching Cruise play basketball. Cruise laments the doctor's lack of concern over Cruise's mother, and says that after that night of his mother's passing, basketball stopped being important to him. Vanessa reminds Cruise that Vaughn will tell the media that Cruise played in one of his illegal basketball games. But Cruise reminds her that since he didn't play for money, Vaughn wouldn't gain anything from telling.

Back at their hotel, Tech is still frustrated that he won't be in the commercial. He gets into an argument with Eboni, accusing her of not really liking him and only using him because he offered her a trip to Los Angeles. Eboni slaps Tech and tells him that she actually does like him. Cruise and Vanessa arrive and start arguing with Tech, which ends with Vanessa telling Tech that the only reason he is friends with Cruise is out of jealousy. It is revealed that Tech was sent to jail for 4 months because when he and Cruise were at a party, Cruise drunkenly assaulted a wealthy man. Tech took the blame for Cruise and went to jail instead. Tech then returns to Detroit on his own without Cruise, Vanessa and Eboni.

Back in Detroit, Tech goes to a basketball court to clear his mind, and Cruise arrives to apologize. Tech mentions that what Vanessa said in the hotel was true and that he is jealous of Cruise because he has "the gift" and Cruise doesn't want it but Tech does. Cruise then tells Tech that somebody reported to the media that Cruise played in an illegal basketball game for money, and he lost his scholarship. Tech asks him if he's going to accept Vaughn's offer and go to the NBA, but Cruise denies and says that he is going to community college and transfer to university to be a doctor. Tech tells him that he is also going to community college after finally passing his GED test. Cruise agrees to play on Tech's team in the next basketball game, then leaves and goes to Vanessa's house.

Cruise tells Vanessa that he lost his scholarship and that they won't be moving to Los Angeles. Vanessa is stunned when Cruise tells her that he is not going to the NBA either and will rather stay in Detroit and go to community college. Vanessa instantly says she's not interested in the relationship anymore, and openly admits that she has been playing Cruise the entire relationship. She reveals that she was actually pregnant by Jewelz and that the only reason she dated Cruise was because she thought he was about to move to California and become a big basketball star. Cruise drives home heartbroken and ends up getting into a motorcycle accident.

In his hospital bed, Cruise softly whispers to Tech how Vanessa lied to him. The next day, Tech deduces that it was Vanessa who told the media about Cruise playing in one of Vaughn's illegal basketball games and goes to confront her at the nail salon where she and Eboni work. Vanessa denies the accusation but Tech knows she is lying and leaves. Tech and Eboni then go to a wagering shop and Tech bets $10,000 that Enemy of the State will beat Platinum in the next game. During a meeting between Tech and his team,  Vaughn arrives and tells Tech that he heard about the $10,000 bet. If the Platinum team scores over 11 points, even if Platinum loses the game, Tech loses the bet and Vaughn wins the $10,000. Tech brings up how Vaughn was the mastermind behind Cruise losing his scholarship. Tech realizes that even though Vaughn didn't directly say anything to the media, he was aware of Vanessa's gold-digging lifestyle and that's why he talked to Cruise about the NBA in front of her. Vaughn silently admits that Tech is right and he accepts the bet.

At the basketball game, Tech's friend Up (Lil JJ) takes Cruise's spot on the team and Tech wears Cruise's jersey. The final possession comes down to Enemy of the State leading the game 19-11. Up makes the final 2-pointer and wins the game for Enemy of the State 21-11. Since Platinum didn't score more than 11 points, Tech wins the $10,000 bet as well. After the game, Vaughn offers Tech a spot as one of his players under his management and how they can make so much money together because "great minds think alike". Tech corrects him and says that "great minds think for themselves", then uses the analogy of how Cruise wanted to get an education and be a doctor but everybody else wanted him to join the NBA. Tech declines Vaughn's offer and then walks out of the basketball arena.

####The Crown of Lies####
As described in a film magazine review,  Olga Kriga, a New York boarding house maid, is loved by John Knight, an automobile salesman, asks her to wed him. One day in a delicatessen, she is seen by a foreigner, who immediately hails her as "Queen." He tells her the faithful cabinet is waiting nearby. The foreigner is a servant of the former prime minister and he insists that she is the long lost ruler of Sylvania, a small European country. Olga decides to pose as that lost queen of Sylvania, and travels to that Balkan country accompanied by Knight. Count Mirko, knowing her return will cause usurper troubles, plans to make it appear beneficial to be rid of Olga. However, the people of the country acclaim her as queen and, after a revolt, put her on the throne. Happiness has been restored to Sylvania, but Olga decides that she no longer to pose as a royal and returns to New York with Knight.

####The Crucible####
As described in a film magazine, Jean (Clark) is brought up as a boy by her father and, after Mr. Fenshaw dies, her boyish manner offends her mother and sisters. Jean is nagged and punished until one day she picks up a sickle and, without really intending to, cuts her sister's hand. She is sent to a reformatory. She later meets Craig Atwood (Lockwood), an artist in the woods, and goes through a series of trials to prove she is worthy of the love of her friend, the painter.

Please Note: The film production does not relate to Arthur Miller's play, "The Crucible".

####Cruel Intentions####
In an upscale New York City mansion, wealthy, popular and intelligent teenager Kathryn Merteuil discusses her private school with Mrs. Caldwell and her daughter, Cecile, who will be starting as a Freshman at the school soon. Kathryn promises Mrs. Caldwell that she will look out for the sheltered, naïve Cecile. When Kathryn's stepbrother Sebastian Valmont enters the room, Mrs. Caldwell reacts to him coldly and leaves with Cecile.

Kathryn tells Sebastian that she intends to use Cecile to take revenge on her ex-boyfriend Court Reynolds, who dumped her for Cecile. Kathryn enlists Sebastian, a notorious womanizer, to seduce Cecile, thereby ruining her in Court's eyes. Sebastian refuses because he is planning to seduce Annette Hargrove, the virgin daughter of the new Headmaster at their school, who has written an essay which was published by a magazine in support of chastity until marriage. After some negotiation, they agree on a wager: if Sebastian fails to seduce Annette, Kathryn gets Sebastian's vintage Jaguar XK140; if he succeeds, Kathryn will have sex with him.

Sebastian's first attempt to seduce Annette fails, as she is apparently already aware of his reputation. Sebastian initially suspects Greg, Annette's friend from Kansas who is a popular football player and closeted homosexual. Sebastian convinces Greg to put in a good word about him to Annette, blackmailing him with a photo of him and Sebastian's openly gay friend in bed. Sebastian also finds out that Mrs. Caldwell was the one who warned Annette about Sebastian. Sebastian finally agrees to corrupt Cecile as revenge. Meanwhile, Cecile confides in Kathryn about her romance with her music teacher, Ronald Clifford. Kathryn reveals this to Mrs. Caldwell, who orders Cecile to end the relationship, but only because Ronald is black. Sebastian lures Cecile to his house by claiming he has a letter to her from Ronald. He then gets Cecile drunk and blackmails her into allowing him to perform oral sex on her. The next day, Cecile confides in Kathryn, who advises her to be as promiscuous as possible to learn how to please Ronald.

Sebastian begins to truly fall in love with Annette, who returns his feelings but is still hesitant. Sebastian calls her a hypocrite for resisting the chance for true love despite claiming that she was waiting for it. Annette finally relents, but Sebastian, confused about his own feelings, now refuses her. Annette flees to the estate of her friend's parents. Sebastian finds her and professes his feelings, and they make love.

Kathryn offers herself to Sebastian after he wins the 'bet', but he rejects her, now only wanting Annette. Sebastian informs Kathryn that he was planning to tell Annette the truth, but a jealous and enraged Kathryn warns him that doing so will destroy both his and Annette's reputations. Sebastian lies to Annette, claiming that she was just a conquest and that he has no real feelings for her. Devastated, Annette tells him to leave. Sebastian informs Kathryn that he has broken up with Annette and now wants his reward for winning the bet. Kathryn reveals that he, not Annette, was the true target of her scheme and that she manipulated him into abandoning Annette for her own amusement. She then dismisses him, telling him that she doesn't sleep with "losers".

Sebastian tries to contact Annette to confess the truth and beg for a second chance, but she refuses to see him. He gives her his journal, in which he has detailed Kathryn's manipulative schemes, their bet, and his true feelings for Annette. Seeking revenge, Kathryn calls Ronald, claiming that Sebastian hurt her and slept with Cecile. Ronald violently confronts Sebastian, and the ensuing fight migrates to the middle of the street. Annette tries to intervene but is thrown into traffic. Sebastian pushes her to safety but ends up getting hit by a taxi. Sebastian and Annette confess their love for each other before he dies. Ronald witnesses this and leaves angry once he finds out from Annette that Kathryn used him.

At Sebastian's funeral, Kathryn delivers a eulogy, which people start leaving midway through. Kathryn rushes outside to find Cecile handing out copies of Sebastian's journal. As the details of her manipulations and drug abuse are made public, Kathryn's reputation is finally destroyed. Feeling guilt over his role in causing Sebastian's death, Ronald writes a detailed confession of how she lied to him about Cecile not being a virgin and her claims about Sebastian hitting her in order to have him killed. It is implied that the disapproving headmaster will expel her from the school, especially after finding cocaine hidden in the cross of her rosary. In the final scene, Annette drives away in Sebastian's car with his journal at her side, recalling their fondest moments together.

####Cupid's Fireman####
As described in a film magazine review, fireman Andy McGee adopts a little orphan girl after the death of his mother. He falls in love with chorus girl Agnes Evans who has a brutal husband. The house where Agnes lives catches fire, and the fire department responds by dispatching Andy's fire brigade. Andy saves Agnes and then attempts to save her drunken husband, but the floor collapses beneath him and he dies. Agnes and Andy are then united.

####The Curious Case of Benjamin Button####
In August 2005, Daisy Fuller is on her deathbed in a New Orleans hospital as Hurricane Katrina approaches. She tells her daughter Caroline, about blind clockmaker Mr. Gateau, hired to make a clock for a train station in 1918. When it was unveiled, the public was surprised to see it running backwards. She reveals that Mr. Gateau made it as a memorial for those who lost their sons in World War I, including his own son. Daisy then asks Caroline to read aloud from Benjamin Button's diary.

On the evening of November 11, 1918, a boy is born with the appearance and maladies of an elderly man. His mother, Caroline, dies soon after childbirth and his father, wealthy manufacturer Thomas Button, abandons the infant on the porch of a nursing home. Caretaker Queenie and cook Mr. Tizzy Weathers find the baby, and she raises him as her own, naming him Benjamin. As the years pass, Benjamin physically blends in with the elderly residents but has the mind and curiosities of a child. Physically aging in reverse, he eventually transitions from a wheelchair to crutches and learns to walk. He befriends a visiting African Pygmy named Oti, who teaches him to look beyond the physical, and resident Mrs. Maple, who teaches him to play the piano.

On Thanksgiving 1930, Benjamin meets seven-year-old Daisy, whose grandmother lives in the nursing home and they connect instantly. Later, he accepts work on the tugboat "Chelsea" captained by Mike Clark. Thomas Button introduces himself to Benjamin, but does not reveal his true identity. In autumn 1936, Benjamin leaves for a long-term work engagement with the tugboat crew and travels around the world. He sends Daisy hundreds of postcards, and learns that she was accepted into a ballet company in New York City.

In Murmansk in 1941, Benjamin becomes smitten with Elizabeth Abbott, wife of a British trade minister. Their affair eventually ends, leaving Benjamin heartbroken. That December, the United States enters World War II. Mike volunteers the "Chelsea" for U.S. Navy service, and they are assigned to salvage duties. They find a near sunken U.S. transport and thousands of dead American troops. The culprit, a German U-boat, surfaces and fires on the tugboat. Captain Mike rams the submarine and the resulting explosion sinks both. Most of the crew perishes except for Benjamin and Rick Brody, who are rescued the following day.

In May 1945, Benjamin returns to New Orleans, reuniting with Queenie and learns that Mr. Weathers died. He reconnects with Daisy and she attempts to seduce him but Benjamin refuses and she departs. Benjamin visits terminally-ill Thomas and learns the details of his birth and family. Thomas gives his button manufacturing company and estate to Benjamin before dying.

In 1947, Benjamin visits Daisy in New York unannounced, but departs upon seeing she is romantically involved with someone else. In 1954, Daisy's dancing career ends when her leg is crushed in an automobile accident in Paris. When Benjamin visits her, Daisy is amazed by his appearance, but, frustrated by her injuries, she tells him to stay out of her life.

In 1962, Daisy returns to New Orleans and reunites with Benjamin. Now of comparable physical age, they fall in love. Queenie dies, and Benjamin and Daisy move in together. In 1967, Daisy, who has opened a ballet studio, tells Benjamin that she is pregnant. Their daughter, Caroline, is born in the spring of 1968. Believing he cannot be a proper father due to his reverse aging, Benjamin sells his assets, leaves the money for Daisy and Caroline, and leaves to travel alone during the 1970s.

Benjamin, physically a young man, returns to Daisy in 1980. Now married, Daisy introduces him as a family friend to her husband Robert and Caroline. She admits he was right to leave; she could not have coped otherwise. She later visits him at his hotel, where they have sex and part once more. In 1990, recently widowed Daisy is contacted by social workers who found Benjamin, who is now physically a pre-teen. When she arrives, they explain that he was living in a condemned building, was taken to the hospital in poor physical condition, and that his diary had her name on it. Benjamin displays early signs of dementia, so Daisy eventually moves into the nursing home in 1997 and cares for Benjamin for the rest of his life as he regresses into infancy.

In 2002, Mr. Gateau's clock was replaced with a properly working modern digital clock and in the spring of 2003, Benjamin dies in Daisy's arms, physically an infant but chronologically over 84 years old. Back in 2005, having finally revealed that Benjamin is Caroline's father, Daisy dies. Hurricane Katrina floods a storage room holding Mr. Gateau's clock, which continues to tick backwards.

####Curlytop####
As described in a review in a film magazine, big Bill Branigan (MacDonald) leaves his sweetheart Bessie (Miller) for Curlytop (Mason), whose unconscious beauty naiveté enthrall him. Shanghai Dan (Oland), who dominates a gang of Chinese crooks in the Chinatown centered on Limehouse in the East End of London, also desires her. Determined to reform, Bill sets out in search of a job, so Bessie revenges herself by getting Curlytop drunk and cutting off her golden curls. Bill returns but cannot find Curlytop, and is persuaded to rekindle his relationship with Bessie. After he finds the golden curls among her belongings, Bill forces Bessie to reveal the whereabouts of Curlytop. Curlytop has been working for Shanghai Dan as a waitress on a floating barge. As Dan is hypnotizing her, another vessel crashes into the barge. Dan is drowned while Curlytop is rescued by Bill.

####Cyrano####
Beautiful, but penniless, orphan Roxanne attends the theater with the vain and showy Duke De Guiche, who is in love with her. He is determined to marry her, but Roxanne wishes to marry for love. While taking her seat, she and newly-recruited soldier, Christian de Neuvillette, see each other and  are instantly infatuated. As the play begins, Roxanne's childhood friend, the dwarven Cyrano de Bergerac, objects to the lead actor and chases him off the stage with rhyming insults, then duels a man who mocks Cyrano's physical condition.

Roxanne fails to realize that Cyrano is desperately in love with her. She tells Cyrano she has fallen for Christian and asks him to arrange a meeting. Though heartbroken, Cyrano meets Christian and discovers he is inarticulate and incapable of expressing his feelings. Not wanting to disappoint Roxanne, he writes countless letters expressing his own deep feelings for her, which Christian delivers as his own writing.

When Christian and Roxanne meet in person, he is unable to match Cyrano's powerful words that caused her to fall in love with Christian; instead he inadvertently insults her. Roxanne declares she needs more than simple platitudes and storms off. Later, Cyrano helps Christian make amends by hiding in the shadows and whispering what to say to Roxanne. She forgives Christian as a priest delivers a letter from De Guiche, declaring that he will either marry her or have his way with her. Roxanne and Christian hastily marry, infuriating De Guiche, who arranges for Christian and Cyrano's unit to be sent to the war front.

While at war, Cyrano sends Roxanne a letter from Christian every day and risks his own life to keep Christian alive for Roxanne. De Guiche eventually sends their unit on a suicide mission, and Cyrano reveals he has already written a final letter to Roxanne. Christian sees the letter is stained with tears and realizes Cyrano loves Roxanne, and that the man Roxanne really loves is Cyrano. He asks Cyrano to tell Roxanne everything. He then runs out to meet the enemy's guns and is killed.

Three years later, Cyrano is impoverished and in ill-health from war wounds that never fully healed. Roxanne remains his close friend. Sensing he is about to die, Cyrano meets with Roxanne and asks for Christian's final letter. He recites it from memory, revealing he wrote all of Christian's letters; Roxanne declares her love for Cyrano before he dies peacefully.

####Cytherea####
As described in a film magazine review, Lee Randon, forty years old and bored, sees his nephew Morris becoming infatuated with Mina Raff and reproaches him. Later, when Morris leaves his wife to go with Mina, contented housewife Fanny Randon, who has no patience with modern ideas like dancing or jazz entertainment, asks her husband to plead with the young woman to release his nephew so he can return to his wife. In carrying out the mission, Randon in turn becomes infatuated with Savina Grove, a married woman of deep passion which has been untouched until she meets Randon. Randon and Savina elope and go to Cuba. Ostracized by his infraction of society's laws, Randon is denied admittance to the home of his brother. Savina is taken ill and dies. Randon returns to his home, where he is welcomed back by his wife.

####Daddy Issues####
Nineteen year old Maya lives at home with her mother and step-father.  She is a very unhappy artist who wants to go to art school in Florence, Italy.  Simon is a drug addict doctor who has fantasy sex with Jasmine who dresses up as a little girl.  Simon has a dinner with his father each year on his dead mother's birthday.  She died 11 years ago.

Maya and Jasmine meet on-line and have a same-sex relationship.  Maya moves in with Jasmine.  Jasmine continues her heterosexual affair with Dr. Simon.  The doctor has set up a child's bedroom in his garage and pays Jasmine $5,000 a month.  Maya is almost hit by a driver who is Simon.  It turns out that Simon is Maya's father that she has not seen in six years.  Maya's mother has lied to her about her father not wanting contact with her and has been spending the child support.  Simon and Maya rekindle a relationship.

One day Simon sees his daughter and Jasmine in a sexual embrace.  He realizes that his lover is in an affair with his daughter.  He ends his relationship with Jasmine and Jasmine in turn breaks up with Maya.  When Simon offers to pay Maya to go to school in Italy, she figures out Jasmine was her father's lover.  The triangle love affair is exposed.

Maya goes to art school in Florence and is successful in selling her art clothing.  One day she sees a woman in Florence wearing her clothing line and the film ends with them being friends.

####Daisy Kenyon####
Daisy Kenyon is a Manhattan commercial artist having an affair with an arrogant, overbearing and successful lawyer named Dan O'Mara, who is married and has two children. He breaks a date with Daisy one night, and she goes out with a widowed war veteran named Peter Lapham.

O'Mara and his wife, Lucille, fight constantly, about his job, the upbringing of their two daughters, and his cheating. That same night, Dan takes his wife and 13-year-old daughter to New York's Stork Club, where Daisy and Peter are waiting to be seated. Daisy and Peter leave immediately. At the end of the date, Peter announces that he loves Daisy and leaves. Peter stands her up for their next date, but he comes by later, unannounced, and proposes. Daisy realizes that he is still in love with his late wife.

Although she is still in love with Dan, Daisy marries Peter after a brief and hesitant courtship. She supports Peter's postwar career. He is moody, sometimes quiet and withholding, sometimes wildly exuberant; he knows that Dan used to be in Daisy's life. Eventually, Daisy feels as if she has gotten over Dan. Finally fed up with Dan's cheating, Lucille wants a divorce, and she uses full custody of the children as leverage to hurt Dan.

Dan asks Peter and Daisy to allow him to reveal the full details of his former relationship with Daisy during the divorce proceedings. Peter says that he will not stand in Daisy's way:  When they first met, he needed her, but he no longer does: He leaves. The trial begins, but Dan can see how much it is hurting Daisy, so he stops the proceedings and asks Peter to sign divorce papers, though Daisy did not request them.

Daisy goes to her house on Cape Cod to work. Dan calls from the train station to say he his bringing Peter to settle things. Panicking, Daisy flees. Her car skids on the icy road and rolls over. She walks 2 miles through the snow to the cottage, where Dan and Peter are playing cards. She wants both of them to leave. After a few words, Peter goes out to the waiting cab.

Daisy is appalled to learn that Dan gave up the children to obtain his divorce and admits that she  stopped loving him a long time ago. Dan goes out to the cab. Peter steps out, saying that he is going home, to his wife, and returns to the house, where he and Daisy toast their future and embrace.

####Dance with Me####
After burying his mother, Rafael Infante comes from Santiago, Cuba to Houston, Texas to work for a man named John Burnett as a handyman in Burnett's dance studio. It soon becomes clear to the audience that Burnett is the father Rafael never knew. While there he finds himself falling for a dancer and instructor Ruby Sinclair, who incidentally brought him to the studio.

It turns out that the dancers in the studio are preparing for a dance competition in Las Vegas and that Ruby would be taking part as well. Rafael gets close to Ruby and their attraction to each other grows, but she is not willing to commit herself to a relationship as she seems more interested in her dancing.

Meanwhile, Rafael's arrival and persona wins him the friendship of an older dancer Bea Johnson as well as the studio receptionist Lovejoy, but it also causes some discomfort to Burnett, who suddenly begins to withdraw into himself and takes less interest in the preparations for the competition, much to the chagrin of his own partner Patricia Black.

While visiting Burnett at his home, Rafael notices and offers to repair his old and broken-down truck. He and Ruby go downtown to get the parts needed to repair the truck and are invited to an engagement party by a Cuban man whose daughter was getting engaged. While there, both of them discover more about each other as he tells her that his mother had died but that he never knew his father.

Later, Rafael invites Ruby to a dance party at a club in the city and they agree to go on the following Saturday night. Before leaving, Rafael helps Patricia learn a dance lift she had been practicing, explaining that his mother made him take a little ballet. The following Saturday, he and Ruby go to the party in which they perform, along with other dancers, the Latin Salsa dancing to a song by Albita Rodriguez.

After the party, he takes Ruby home where he discovers that she has a 7-year-old son Peter who is "looked after" by Bea in Ruby's absence and who happens to be fathered by Ruby's former dance partner, Julian Marshall. While there, he comes up to Ruby and they share a passionate kiss, but she eventually breaks it up.

Later on Rafael comes to Burnett's home to show him the refurbished truck, to the latter's delight. While there, Patricia comes to the house and has a discussion with John asking him to explain why he suddenly lost interest in their choreography preparations. John then tells her that she can dance with Rafael if she wants and both she and Rafael start their practice to the amazement of the other dancers at the studio.

After the rehearsal, Rafael overhears John telling Lovejoy that Ruby would be in Las Vegas without them and also asking her to switch his name with Rafael's when Patricia's dance comes up.

Sensing that she wants to reunite with Julian, Rafael goes to see Ruby who explains that she wanted Peter to see his father often and that she did not want to be in love. While at a fishing trip with Burnett, Rafael is shocked when Burnett tells him to go back to Cuba after the competition and that he did not have a son. Devastated by the double rejection, he decides to return to Cuba after his dance with Patricia.

At Las Vegas, Rafael meets Ruby and tells her that he was returning to Cuba after the competition. Burnett (who did not go) reflects on his cruel rejection of Rafael and decides to come to the dance to apologize to Rafael and persuade him not to go back to Cuba. Rafael dances with Patricia and while watching them, Ruby realized that she was in love with Rafael and felt a stab of jealousy seeing them together.

Just as Rafael and Patricia leave the stage, Bea comes in, saying, "I wanna do that too" and she and Rafael perform a very humorous dance to the amusement and delight of the crowd. After the dance, Burnett meets and apologizes to Rafael, eventually convinces him to stay back and also commending his dancing.

The main dances begin and Ruby and her partner Julian are involved. Despite the slight tension between them, they win the competition although Ruby almost all the time seems to keep her eyes on Rafael, who is in the audience and who is watching her, however he leaves and when Ruby looked around without seeing him, she breaks down in tears.

Later at a dance party for all the contestants, Ruby is met by a man who wishes to promote her. However, to her relief, Rafael appears again and leads her to the dance floor for a final dance scene that has the rest of the dancers watching with admiration.

The movie ends at the studio with the entire studio members and some new dancers dancing to the theme song "You Are My Home" by Chayanne and Williams themselves.

####Dancin': It's On!####
The movie is about Jennifer (Carson), a girl from Beverly Hills, California, who is sent on a summer holiday in to meet her estranged father Jerry (Daniels) who owns a famous hotel in Panama City, Florida. While there she falls in love with Ken (Wespi-Tschopp), a boy who works there. The two compete in a dancing competition after becoming romantically involved even with disapproval from her father.

####Dancing at the Harvest Moon####
Maggie, a professor of English literature, is fast approaching her silver wedding anniversary. But her world is shattered upon discovering that her husband, Tom, has been repeatedly adulterous during their marriage and now intends to marry his younger mistress. Facing divorce, she retreats to the tranquility of her hometown, where she met her first love, Patrick, decades earlier. Patrick has long since died, and the club where they danced together—the Harvest Moon—is closed and in disrepair.  She seizes upon the idea of buying and restoring the club again—with the help of a young carpenter/woodworker, John, who turns out to be Patrick's son.  Soon the attraction between John and Maggie is hard to deny.  However, Maggie can't stop thinking of the obstacles between them, including his young age, his current girlfriend and, most critically, whether her feelings for John are sincere or only a projection of her long-ago love for his father.  All is finally revealed once the Harvest Moon is open again.

####Danger Patrol####
Dan Loring (John Beal) wants to be a medical student, but does not have the money for it. He takes a job as an apprentice with the Goliath Explosives Corp. transporting nitroglycerin—or as they like to call it, "soup"—to oil fields. He is trained by Sam "Easy" Street (Harry Carey), a veteran nitro handler, and soon promoted to a full-time nitro truck driver.  Meanwhile, Dan begins to develop a romantic relationship with Sam's daughter, Cathy (Sally Eilers).

Because the explosive is so easily set off, the families of all the "soup handlers" live in fear that they will suddenly die. For years Cathy has been asking her father to leave the job, and he has been replying that he just needs to get some money saved up first, but he spends it too freely for this to ever happen. When Dan asks Cathy to marry him, she refuses to take that step, even though he too promises to quit as soon as he can afford medical school.

One day another driver, John "Gabby" Donovan (Edward Gargan), tells his long-suffering wife Nancy (Lee Patrick) that he has been given $1,000, and a month off, to take a delayed honeymoon with her. But he has one more delivery to make first, and dies in an explosion. Sam has previously favored Cathy and Dan's romance, but reconsiders in view of Nancy's grief and tries to break them up. Cathy then accepts the proposal of a rich suitor, Eric Trumble. As the wedding date approaches, though, she is distressed: her heart still belongs to Dan.

When an oil-well emergency near Tampico, Mexico, requires a shipment of nitro by airplane, Goliath boss "Rocky" Sanders (Frank M. Thomas) offers $1,000 to any employee who will travel with the nitro. Dan quickly volunteers, much to Sam's dismay. When Dan will not be dissuaded, Sam knocks him out with a sucker punch and takes over the job.

As the small plane approaches Tampico, fog closes in on the airport and the pilot cannot see where to land safely. He finally declares the intention to climb so they can parachute out, but Sam will not risk it crashing into the city. He demands the nitro be dropped safely into the sea or else he will set it off then and there. It does not matter anyway: just then the plane runs out of fuel. Sam grabs the radio microphone to leave a final message for Cathy, telling her to reunite with Dan "for me". They hear this themselves, as the transmissions are being monitored in Texas. The plane crashes and explodes, killing Sam and the pilot.

As Dan turns to Cathy to console her, she begs him, "Please don't let anything happen to us"; and he replies, "I won't."

####Dangerous Beauty####
Veronica Franco is an adventurous, curious, slightly tomboyish young woman in Venice. Her love Marco, who will be a Senator like his father, cannot marry her because her family is too poor; he marries a foreign noblewoman instead.

Veronica's mother Paola plans for her family's financial security, as she still requires dowries for her younger daughters and money for her son's commission. Rather than go to a convent, Paola suggests she become a courtesan, a highly paid, cultured prostitute like her mother and grandmother before her.

At first Veronica is repelled by the idea, but once she discovers that courtesans are allowed access to libraries and education, she tentatively embraces the idea. She goes through a training her mother gives her. Veronica is shown how to seduce men subtly, even from afar.

Veronica quickly gains a reputation as a top courtesan, impressing the powerful men of Venice with her beauty, wit, and compassion. Marco finds it difficult to adjust to his new wife, who is nothing like Veronica, and becomes jealous as Veronica takes his friends and relatives as lovers.

Marco's cousin Maffio, a poor bard who was once publicly upstaged and later rejected by her, attacks Veronica due to envy. They have a duel of words as well of swords, after which Marco rushes to her aid. They rekindle their romance, but she refuses to stop seeing clients and accept his support. Nevertheless, Veronica spends a great deal of time with Marco, neglecting her business and ignoring her mother's warnings that such a relationship is dangerous for her.

The Fourth Ottoman–Venetian War (1570–73) breaks out, and the city appeals to France for aid. Veronica is encouraged to seduce the King of France and secure a military alliance, which she does.

Marco accuses her of enjoying being a courtesan, implying she ought to have rejected the King despite the risk to Venice. Veronica points out that she sacrificed their love for the good of the city, while he only did it to protect his family's political standing, so Marco leaves for war angry.

Veronica, being better connected and educated than the nobelwomen left behind, is called to inform them of the war's progress. Soon ejected from the gathering, she and her nobelwoman friend have a private conference, where she is asked to one day train her daughter to be a courtesan. Veronica points out she is not much freer in the end.

While the Venetians are fighting at sea, a plague hits the city. Religious zealots take the war and plague as punishment for the city's moral degradation, and Veronica's home is quarantined and almost ransacked by a mob. Marco returns before Veronica is charged and just before Paola dies of the plague.

Veronica is summoned to appear before the Inquisition on charges of witchcraft. Maffio has been made a monsignor is at the head of those against her. Marco accuses him of having a vendetta against her. He declares that if she is guilty, then he as many is her accomplice. Veronica refuses to name her clients so, when it appears that she will be executed, Marco publicly shames the Venetian ministers and senators into admitting their own adulteries and sins by standing up in the assembly. Bewildered by the extent of sin in the city, the Inquisitor drops the charges of witchcraft.

Marco and Veronica were lovers the rest of their days.

####The Dangerous Flirt####
As described in a review in a film magazine, Sheila Fairfax (Brent), reared by a puritanical aunt, is stupidly old-fashioned. Captain Ramon Jose (Gendron) inveigles her into becoming engaged to him but she breaks it. Dick Morris (Earle), a mining engineer, gallantly whisks her away and they are married. Sheila’s puritanical training makes her an easy prey to fears on her wedding night. Dick misunderstands her timidity for disgust and leaves her. She follows him to South America and they become the guests of Don Alfonso, uncle of Ramon Jose. The Don and Jose vie for her regard and in a fight Jose is killed by his uncle. Dick faces a firing squad under the Don’s orders but Sheila saves him by a ruse and they escape, happily reunited.

####Dangerous Liaisons####
In pre-Revolution Paris, the Marquise de Merteuil plots revenge against her ex-lover, the Comte de Bastide, who recently ended their relationship. To soothe her wounded pride and embarrass Bastide, she seeks to arrange the seduction and disgrace of his young virgin fiancée, Cécile de Volanges, who has only recently been presented to society after spending her formative years in the shelter of a convent.

Merteuil calls on the similarly unprincipled Vicomte de Valmont, another ex-lover of hers, to do the deed. Valmont declines, as he is plotting to seduce Madame de Tourvel, the wife of a member of Parliament away in Burgundy and a current houseguest of Valmont's aunt, Madame de Rosemonde. Amused and incredulous at Valmont's hubris in pursuing the chaste, devoutly religious Tourvel, Merteuil ups the ante: if Valmont somehow succeeds in seducing Tourvel and can furnish written proof, Merteuil will sleep with him as well. Never one to refuse a challenge, Valmont accepts.

Tourvel rebuffs all of Valmont's advances. Searching for leverage, he instructs his page Azolan to seduce Tourvel's maid Julie and gain access to Tourvel's private correspondence. One of the letters intercepted is from Cécile's mother and Merteuil's cousin, Madame de Volanges, warning Tourvel that Valmont is nefarious and untrustworthy. Valmont resolves to seduce Cécile as revenge for her mother's accurate denunciation of him.

At the opera, Cécile meets the charming and handsome Chevalier Raphael Danceny, who becomes her music teacher. They fall in love with coaxing from Merteuil, who knows that Danceny, a poor commoner, can never qualify as a bona fide suitor.

Valmont gains access to Cécile's bedchamber on a pretext, and sexually assaults her. As she pleads with him to leave, he blackmails her into giving up physical resistance, and the scene ends. On the pretext of illness, Cécile remains locked in her chambers, refusing all visitors. A concerned Madame de Volanges asks Merteuil to speak to Cécile; Cécile confides in Merteuil, naively assuming that she has Cécile's best interests at heart. Merteuil advises Cécile to welcome Valmont's advances; she says young women should take advantage of all the lovers they can acquire in a society so repressive and contemptuous of women. The result is a "student-teacher" relationship; by day, Cécile is courted by Danceny, and each night she receives a sexual "lesson" from Valmont. Merteuil begins an affair with Danceny.

After a night in Valmont's bed, Cécile miscarries his child. Meanwhile, Valmont has won Tourvel's heart, but at a cost: the lifelong bachelor playboy falls in love. In a fit of jealousy, Merteuil mocks Valmont and refuses to honor her end of their agreement unless Valmont breaks up with Tourvel. Valmont abruptly dismisses the latter with a terse excuse: "It's beyond my control." Overwhelmed with grief and shame, Tourvel retreats to a monastery where her health deteriorates rapidly.

Despite the breakup, Merteuil still refuses to honor the agreement and even declares "war". She informs Danceny that Valmont has been sleeping with Cécile. Danceny challenges Valmont to a duel, ending with the latter voluntarily running into Danceny's sword. With his dying breath, Valmont asks Danceny to communicate to Tourvel his true feelings for her; he also warns Danceny about Meurteuil and gives him his collection of intimate letters from her as proof of the veracity of his warnings.Valmont tells Danceny to circulate them after he has read them.

After hearing Valmont's message from Danceny, Tourvel dies. Merteuil goes to the opera but she is booed by her former friends and sycophants, implying that all of Paris have learned the full range of Merteuil's schemes and depredations due to Danceny’s circulation of the letters. She flees in disgrace. In the last shot we see her removing her makeup, alone.

####A Dangerous Woman####
Martha Horgan struggles to have a normal life in spite of being mentally challenged. She is fired from a job at the local dry-cleaner after accusations of stealing from the cash register. She believes the theft was done by Getso, the boyfriend of her colleague Birdie.

Depressed, Martha returns to Aunt Frances' home and discovers that a handyman, Mackey, has been hired to fix the porch of the main house. Aunt Frances plans to host a gala event for a local politician. Irate over her husband's affair with Frances, the politician's wife had driven into the porch and damaged it.

Mackey is kind to Martha. He defends her from Getso, who bullies and insults her, and smashes the windshield on Getso's van. She becomes increasingly fond of Mackey as time goes on. He recognizes Martha's feelings but does not take advantage of her.

One night Mackey returns drunk to Martha's home, lets himself in and proceeds to have sex with the eager Martha on her sofa. He later sleeps with Frances, who is also drunk, despondent following the gala. Her lover politician had reconciled with his wife and left with her at the end of the evening.

Mackey plans to leave as soon as he finishes the porch job, feeling guilty about being unfaithful to Martha, but she urges him stay and tries to seduce him. He resists at first, then succumbs, then finally rejects her and throws her out. Despondent, Martha seeks her only friend, Birdie, for comfort; she goes alone to Birdie's home. There she finds Getso, who taunts and threatens her. Feeling cornered, Martha stabs him repeatedly with a sandwich knife. She stays and tries to comfort Getso as he dies from his wounds.

Frances and Mackey seek Martha at the police station where they are informed that she is pregnant and will likely be charged with murder and spend the rest of her life in jail. They find her overwhelmed with guilt over what she has done and resigned to her fate.

Frances, already suspicious of Getso, informs Martha that she is pregnant and that all she has to do is tell the police he raped her and she will be released. She  refuses because it would be a lie but doesn't reveal that Mackey is the father of her child. Later, he again urges her to lie to save her life, but Martha instead insists that Mackey must take care of their child.

A final scene set in the near future reveals that Martha was remanded to a care facility where she is allowed to have day visits. Frances, Mackey, and her child are shown taking her away for just such a visit.

####Danielle Steel's A Perfect Stranger####
A lawyer falls in love with a woman who's married to a dying millionaire and results in a love triangle.

####Danielle Steel's Star####
Jennie Garth plays Crystal Wyatt, a sweet country girl who dreams of becoming a singer. When her father dies, Crystal's life soon becomes dramatic. After her brother-in-law rapes her in the barn, Crystal immediately tells her mother (who has never really loved her) asking for support, but her mother refuses to believe her.  Crystal confronts her brother-in-law with a shotgun, but in the fight her brother is shot dead. Crystal runs away to San Francisco, where she becomes a waitress and singer. She falls for a charitable lawyer and kind army man, Spencer. They, though he is years older, have had chemistry from the beginning and later begin a passionate relationship in her tumultuous life. Crystal rises up to stardom with her looks and voice and competes with life's circumstances to be with the man she adores. However, Spencer is to be engaged with a woman named Elizabeth, a socialite who wants her life to be perfect and ordered. As Crystal's life winds down, Spencer's marriage and patience dwindles. Eventually, Crystal becomes pregnant and moves in with her childhood friend (played by Bryan Smith) with Spencer's child, but wants to let him get his life in order before they can be together. Eventually, he quits his associations with the higher-ups, quits his marriage, and goes back to Crystal, where he discovers her with his 5-year-old son, Zeb. The movie ends on a happy note, even with much history been had, and it is assumed that they live the rest of their lives out in a storybook romance.

####The Danish Girl####
In mid-1920s Copenhagen, portrait artist Gerda Wegener asks her husband, Einar, to stand in for a female model, who is late arriving at their flat to pose for a painting on which Gerda is working.

The act of posing as a female figure unmasks Einar's life-long gender identity as a woman, who then names herself Lili Elbe. This sets off a progression, first tentative and then irreversible, of leaving behind the male identity which she has struggled to maintain all her life. This takes place as both Lili and Gerda relocate to Paris; Gerda's portraits of Lili in her feminine state attract serious attention from art dealers in a way that her previous portraiture had not. It is there that Gerda tracks down art dealer Hans Axgil, a childhood friend of Lili (whom Lili had kissed when they were young). Hans and Gerda's mutual attraction is a challenge, as Gerda is navigating her changing relationship with Lili; but Hans' long-time friendship with and affection for Lili cause him to be supportive of both Lili and Gerda.

As Lili's continued existence presenting as a male becomes too much to bear, she starts to seek help from psychologists, but none yields any result, and, in one instance, almost leads her to being committed to an asylum. Eventually, at Ulla's recommendation, Lili and Gerda meet Dr. Kurt Warnekros. Dr. Warnekros explains that he has met people like her, who are physically male but identify as female. He proposes a new, innovative and controversial solution: male-to-female sex reassignment surgery. He also mentions that this is the second time he's offered this surgery, but the first patient got too nervous and left before the surgeries began. This would entail a two-part procedure that involves first removing Lili's external genitalia and then, after a period of recovery, fashioning a vagina. He warns Lili and Gerda that it is a very dangerous operation that has never been attempted before, and Lili would be one of the first to undergo it. Lili immediately agrees and, soon after, travels to Germany without Gerda to begin the surgery.

Gerda stays behind for a little while, but ultimately decides she should be by Lili's side. She arrives to Lili having completed the first surgery, but very much in pain with a serious infection and negative prognosis. Gerda helps Lili heal and Lili begins working in a department store selling woman's perfume. She befriends a man who was originally interested in her as Einar and she emphasizes that Gerda's relationship with Einar is over because Einar is gone. She stays a while, but decides it is time to go back for the second surgery, much to Gerda's distress. Lili again leaves alone.

Gerda again shows up after the surgery is complete, but Lili is pale and weak. She feels complete and insists she be taken out to the garden again. Lili dies of complications from the second surgery while talking with Gerda. Gerda and Hans travel to a hilltop back in Denmark where Hans and Lili grew up, in front of the five trees Lili often painted. The scarf that Lili had originally given Gerda, and that had subsequently been given back and forth several times, is carried away on the wind, dancing.

####The Dark Angel####
During the First World War, Captain Alan Trent, while on leave in England with his fiancée Kitty Vane, is suddenly recalled to the front before being able to get a marriage license. Alan and Kitty spend a night of love at a country inn "without benefit of clergy" and he sets off.

At the front things go badly for Alan, who is blinded and becomes a Prisoner of War after being captured by the Germans. He is reported dead, and his friend, Captain Gerald Shannon, discreetly woos Kitty, seeking to soothe her grief with his gentle love.

After the war, however, Gerald discovers that Alan is still alive, in a remote corner of England, writing children's stories for a living. Loyal to his former comrade in arms, Gerald informs Kitty of Alan's reappearance. She goes to him, and Alan conceals his blindness and tells Kitty that he no longer cares for her. She sees through his deception, however, and they are reunited.

####The Dark Side of the Sun####
Rick is a young American who has a rare skin disease that prevents him from exposing himself to any kind of light, especially sunlight, and is mostly seen as an expert motorcyclist, entirely clad in leather. After having tried several cures without success, his father takes him to a village in Croatia where they meet a healer, who is supposed to save him. But the treatment does not work and when a young American actress falls for him Rick decides to forget about his illness and enjoy life, feeling the sun on his skin for the first time. The disease takes its course but his father understands the choice he made.

####Dark Victory####
Judith "Judy" Traherne (Bette Davis), is a young, carefree, hedonistic Long Island socialite and heiress with a passion for horses, fast cars, and too much smoking and drinking. She initially ignores severe headaches and brief episodes of dizziness and double vision, but when she uncharacteristically takes a spill while riding and then tumbles down a flight of stairs, her secretary and best friend Ann King insists she see the family doctor, who refers her to a specialist.

Dr. Frederick Steele, (George Brent), is closing his New York City office in preparation for a move to Brattleboro, Vermont, where he plans to devote his time to brain cell research and scientific study on their growth. He reluctantly agrees to see Judy, who acts coldly and is openly antagonistic towards him. She shows signs of short-term memory loss but dismisses her symptoms. Steele convinces her the ailments she is experiencing are severe and potentially life-threatening and puts his career plans on hold to tend to her.

When diagnostic tests confirm his suspicions, Judy agrees to surgery to remove a malignant glioma brain tumor. Steele discovers the tumor cannot be removed entirely and realizes she has less than a year to live. The end will be painless but swift; shortly after experiencing total blindness, Judy will die.

To allow her a few more months of happiness, Steele opts to lie to Judy and Ann and assures them the surgery was a success. As he is a poor liar, Ann is suspicious and confronts Steele, who admits the truth. Steele tells Ann, "she must never know" she will die soon. She agrees to remain silent and continue the lie.


Judy and Steele become involved romantically and eventually engaged. While helping his assistant pack the office before their departure for Vermont, Judy discovers her case history file containing letters from several doctors, all of them confirming Steele's prognosis. Assuming Steele was marrying her out of pity, Judy breaks off the engagement and reverts to her former lifestyle. One day, her stable master Michael O'Leary, who for years has loved her from afar, confronts her about her unruly behavior, and she confesses she is dying. Their conversation convinces her she should spend her final months happy, dignified, and with the man she loves. She apologizes to Steele, and they marry and move to Vermont.

Three months later, Ann comes to visit. Judy and she are in the garden planting bulbs when Judy comments on how odd it is she still feels the sun's heat under the rapidly darkening skies. They both immediately realize she is losing her vision and approaching the end. Judy makes Ann stay mum, as Steele leaves that day to present his most recent medical findings—which hold out the long-term prospect of a cure for her type of cancer—in New York. Judy makes an excuse to remain home, helps him pack, and sends him off, telling him, "What we have now can't be destroyed. That's our victory, our victory over the dark. It's a victory because we're not afraid."

Then, after bidding Ann, her housekeeper Martha (who has silently deduced the situation), and her dogs farewell, she goes to her bedroom.  Martha follows Judy and, upon entering the room, pauses as she sees Judy kneeling briefly, apparently praying.  Judy then lies down on the bed; Martha drapes a blanket over her, withdrawing quietly when Judy asks to be left alone.

####The Darling of Paris####
The wealthy girl Esmeralda (Theda Bara) is kidnapped by gypsies at birth and becomes, as one might assume, the darling of Paris. She is loved by the bell ringer and former hunchback Quasimodo (Glen White), Frollo (Walter Law), the wicked surgeon who cares for him, and an equally wicked Captain Phoebus (Herbert Heyes).

However, the titular hunchback is downplayed in favor of gypsy dancing girl Esmerelda. The surgeon kills the Captain and frames Esmeralda, but after many merry mix-ups, she winds back with her wealthy family, happily wed to Quasimodo.

####Daughters Courageous####
Freewheeling Jim Masters returns home after a 20-year absence, during which he was declared dead, to find that his wife, Nancy, is about to marry Sam Sloane, a stable local man in Carmel, California. She must now choose between her ex-husband and her new fiancé. The Masters daughters are also upset that their irresponsible father has re-entered their lives after so long an absence. Meanwhile, the youngest daughter, Buff, is drawn to tough-guy Gabriel Lopez, a man that reminds Jim Masters of himself.

####Day of Reckoning####
John Day is arrested for a shortage in his accounts at work. His wife Dorothy asks for help from lusting friend George Hollins, who orders John's lawyer to assure that John receives a two-year jail sentence.

####Days of Glory####
In the snowy Russian countryside of the early 1940s, Vladimir (Gregory Peck) leads a squad of nearly a dozen partisan fighters operating behind German lines. The group's routines are disrupted when Nina (Tamara Toumanova), a ballerina, is brought to their hideout after becoming separated from her troupe. She confesses she has neither handled a gun nor learned to fight, cook, mend, or clean. Vladimir favors sending her away. Later, a German soldier stumbles upon the group's lair but is captured. That night, he nearly escapes, but Nina shoots him, winning the approval of her new comrades. The next night, when the guerrillas carry out the sabotage of a German munitions train, Vladimir takes Nina along. The operation is a success. Yet although she and Vladimir are falling in love, Nina does not understand his ruthlessness. He explains that before the war he, as an engineer, had to destroy the very electric power plant he had helped build in order to keep the enemy from using it.

The couple's budding romance threatens the stability of the squad. At one point, when Vladimir must enlist someone to hand-deliver a coded message on Nazi troop strength to Soviet headquarters, he decides a woman courier would less likely be caught. He chooses the veteran Yelena (Maria Palmer), the only woman in the group besides Nina. So when Yelena's horse returns to their hideout with blood on the saddle, Nina then volunteers to take her place. Vladimir reluctantly accedes, sending the teen-aged boy Mitya (Glen Vernon) along with her. After Nina and Mitya reach headquarters and deliver Vladimir's information, she is given a coded reply to Vladimir: "The snow will fall tomorrow." This indicates that a massive Russian counterattack will begin the next day. Vladimir's superiors put him in charge of a merged partisan operation. Before the fighting begins, however, he orders Nina to take Mitya's younger sister, Olga (Dena Penn), to safety. Fighting bravely, the group's members are killed one by one, but Nina returns to Vladimir. As they fight on, he administers her the partisan oath of allegiance just before a German tank rolls atop their machine-gun nest and explodes.

####Days of Heaven####
In 1916, Chicago manual laborer Bill knocks down and kills a boss in the steel mill where he works, then flees to the Texas Panhandle with his girlfriend Abby and young sister Linda. Bill and Abby pretend to be siblings to prevent gossip. The three are hired as part of a large group of seasonal workers by a rich, shy farmer. Bill overhears a doctor telling the farmer he has only a year to live, although the nature of the illness is not specified.

When the farmer falls in love with Abby, Bill encourages her to marry him so they can inherit his money. They thus marry and Bill stays as her "brother". The farmer's foreman suspects the scheme. The farmer's health unexpectedly remains stable, foiling Bill's plans. Eventually, the farmer discovers Bill's true relationship with Abby; meanwhile, Abby has begun to fall in love with her husband. When a locust swarm and fires destroy his wheat fields, the incensed farmer chases Bill with a gun, but Bill kills him with a screwdriver, then flees with Abby and Linda.

The foreman and police pursue and eventually find them; Bill is shot and killed while running. Abby inherits the farmer's estate and leaves Linda at a boarding school. Abby leaves town on a train with soldiers departing for World War I. Linda runs away from school with a friend from the farm.

####De-Lovely####
As he is about to die, Porter's life flashes before him in the form of a musical production staged by the archangel Gabriel in the Indiana theater where the composer first performed on stage.

He recalls the night he met his wife, Linda Lee Thomas, a recent divorcee and stunning beauty. From the start, they click and become a devoted couple. Linda is well aware that Cole is gay. Her first husband was abusive to her, but, as she confesses to him on their wedding day, Cole is completely different. Because he loves her and is publicly affectionate, Linda tolerates his extramarital dalliances. During their marriage, Cole's career flourishes. Linda begins the tradition of presenting Cole with a custom designed and engraved Cartier cigarette case at the opening of each new show.

To cheer Linda after she experiences a miscarriage, the couple move to Hollywood. After an initial period of excitement, Cole's flings become too overt and indiscreet and they create tension. Cole is photographed in an amorous embrace with another man in the restroom of a gay nightclub. Both he and Linda are blackmailed into paying a large sum to suppress publication of the pictures. When he shrugs off the blackmail, she goes to Paris, leaving him bereft.

It is not until Cole is seriously injured in a horseback riding accident that Linda returns to his side, willing to forgive, but still finding difficulty in coping with his extramarital affairs. She is eventually diagnosed with emphysema, and in an attempt to provide Cole with a new partner once she is gone, she introduces him to her decorator and estate advisor. The match is successful.

When Linda dies in 1954, Cole is devastated. He continues working until 1958 when degeneration of his right leg finally requires amputation, affecting his creative output. He never writes again, but does participate in productions of his earlier works. Cole dies in 1964 at age 73.

####Dear John####
In 2003, while serving in the United States Army Special Forces, Staff Sergeant John Tyree is shot in Afghanistan. In a voice-over, he recalls a childhood trip to the U.S. Mint and compares himself to a coin in the United States military, before stating that the last thing he thought of before he blacked out was "you."

Two years earlier in Spring 2001, John is on leave in Charleston, South Carolina. He meets Savannah Curtis, a college student building homes with a group of co-eds for Habitat for Humanity while on spring break. Savannah invites John to a bonfire party where he meets her neighbor, Tim, and his autistic son, Alan. Over the course of two weeks, they go on several dates and eventually fall in love. Savannah also meets John's father who is obsessed with his growing coin collection.

Savannah mentions to John that his father may have Asperger's syndrome like Tim's son, Alan. An upset John storms off and becomes involved in a fight, and he accidentally strikes Tim, breaking his nose. Savannah sees the commotion and stops speaking to John. John later apologizes to Tim, who offers to give Savannah a message. Savannah later visits John to spend one last day together. Before John leaves, they make a promise to continue their relationship via letters, and vow to tell each other everything.

John and Savannah make plans to start a life together after John gets his discharge from the Army. However, when the September 11 attacks occur, John along with his team request to extend their deployments. As a result, their time apart from each other turn into months and then ultimately years. Back in Charleston, Savannah begins to spend more time with Tim, and decides that she wants to work with autistic children; she plans to build a farm and horse stables where they can enjoy the outdoors and animals. Over the next two years, John and Savannah's romance continues through their letters. Eventually one turns out to be a literal "Dear John" letter, in which Savannah breaks up with John; she explains that while she still loves him, she has developed feelings for someone else and is engaged.

In 2003 after being shot in Afghanistan, John is encouraged to return home but he re-enlists for a second time. Four more years pass, and John is informed that his father has had a stroke, and is sent home to be with him. In the hospital, John reads a letter to his father that he wrote for him; John's voice-over at the beginning of the film was from this letter, in which he told his father that the first thing to cross his mind after he was shot was coins, and the last thing to cross his mind before he lost consciousness was his dad. Soon afterward, his father dies.

After the funeral, John visits Savannah and learns that the man she married was Tim, abandoning her dream of a riding camp for autistic kids because of Tim's fight against lymphoma. Savannah takes John to the hospital to see him; Tim tells John that Savannah still loves John. Back at the house, John and Savannah enjoy a quiet evening together, and are tempted to pick up where they left off years earlier, but do not go through with their feelings. John says goodbye to Savannah and leaves, but is distraught.

John sells his father's coin collection (except the valuable mule coin that he found with his father years ago) in order to raise money to help with Tim's cancer treatment, then he returns to the military, carrying the mule coin with him as a good luck charm. He receives a final letter from Savannah telling him that they received an anonymous donation but Tim died from his illness after only two months of treatment.

Months later, John, now a civilian, eventually returns home; while in town one day while parking his bike, he sees Savannah at a coffee shop. They reunite and share a hug.

####Déjà Vu####
Dana, a young American woman, is engaged to her business partner Alex, and they are renovating an old building into a boutique hotel. While on a trip to Israel she orders goods from the Arab market in Jerusalem. At a restaurant she is approached by an older woman who strikes up a conversation, saying that she is a French Jewess who returns regularly to Jerusalem, but prefers to stay at a hotel in Tel Aviv.
Dana admires a beautiful butterfly pin she is wearing. So the lady asks Dana to pin it on herself, and tells her the sad story of how she fell in love with an American GI during World War 2, and they have two identical pins made to reflect their love relationship, even though he had a fiancée in the States. He leaves, promising to break off the engagement and return to her. But he doesn't, and eventually sends her a letter explaining that he is married, with a photo of their child. She says that she accepted the situation and managed to go on with her life and also marry someone. She then makes an excuse to go to the powder-room, and disappears, leaving Dana with the pin.

Dana then goes to Tel Aviv to find the stranger and return the pin. However she finds that the stranger's hotel had been demolished many years previously, making way for a new modern one.

Dana then goes to look for her in Paris, by asking jewellery shops in the area if they recognize the pin. She finds the manufacturer, but he has no records of the purchaser. He offers to make her engagement ring smaller, but while he is busy she sees a man lurking outside, and tries to follow him, thinking that somehow he is connected with the lady. He disappears and she continues to London on the channel train, forgetting her ring.
At Dover acting on an impulse she gets off the train and goes walking on the cliffs (with the song “White cliffs of Dover” in background). She sees a man painting there, Sean, and strike up a conversation. They both feel a very strong attraction, and he offers to drive her to London. There he takes her to his studio. She likes a painting he has done of two lovers looking at the Eiffel tower and he gives it to her. They kiss but she is unwilling to go further and leaves.
She goes to stay with an older couple, John and Fern, where Alex has already arrived and is waiting for her. Her friends are planning extensions to their house, and their architect and his wife (Claire) have also come to stay to work out the design. Dana is amazed to find that the architect is none other than Sean. Both Claire and Alex appear to be rather superficial and do not share their spouse's emotional and artistic passions.

John's sister Skelly also comes with a boy-friend. She is a flighty soul who never really settles anywhere or with anyone for long. She talks a lot about love and other free living.

Meanwhile, John and Skelly have to find accommodation for their elderly mother, and Skelly suggests she moves in with John and Fern as she her lifestyle would make caring for her mother inconvenient.
Sean and Dana don't know how to deal with the sudden arrival of their soul-mates into their otherwise OK lives. Skelly advises them to go with her hearts.
One thing leads to another and eventually Sean and Dana get a chance to be intimate together at Sean's studio. They decide to tell their partners and initiate his divorce and her broken engagement. There are huge scenes of distress, but Dana's mother phones from LA to tell her that her father has been admitted to hospital. Dana is devastated and flies home urgently with Alex. The hospital finds nothing wrong with her father.

Dana and Alex make wedding preparations, but while Dana is dressing on the big day her father speaks to her to see if she is certain that she really wants to marry Alex. Then her father gives her a special wedding gift he has kept for her. It is the other butterfly pin. Dana realizes he was the American GI, and asks whether he really loved the French stranger, and whether he regretted not marrying her. He says that he has thought of her every week, and that she was the love of his life.

So Dana calls off the wedding and flies to Sean in London, and they embrace passionately. Then Dana notices a painting of Sean's and realises that it is of the strange lady she met in Jerusalem, wearing the two pins. Sean says that it his mother. Dana tells him that she was the woman she met in Jerusalem who gave her the brooch, but he says that would not have been possible, as his mother has been dead for years. And so the children of the American soldier and the French shop-lady are united in love - Déjà vu!  They go together to Paris to the scene of Sean's painting Dana admired on their first meeting, and we see that the painting is of them – Déjà vu again!

####Desert Fury####
Fritzi Haller (Mary Astor) is the powerful owner of Purple Sage, a saloon and casino in the small fictional mining town of Chuckawalla, Nevada. Her daughter, Paula Haller (Lizabeth Scott), has just quit school and returned home at the same time that gangster Eddie Bendix (John Hodiak) has returned. He was once involved with Fritzi, but left town under suspicion of murdering his wife.

Paula does not have a good relationship with her mother Fritzi and when she sees how unpleasant Eddie is for her, she begins a relationship with the crook. Paula's old boyfriend, and local lawman, Tom Hanson (Burt Lancaster), along with Bendix's sidekick, Johnny Ryan (Wendell Corey), try to break up the relationship. When Fritzi finds out, she angrily tries to protect Paula and put a stop to her seeing Bendix. But the resolute Paula does not give up easily until she knows the past of her beloved Eddie.

Bendix's past catches up with him in an unexpected way when the car he is in, running from Hanson (who wants to rid the town of the likes of Bendix and Ryan), crashes through the railing as it is going onto the bridge and plunges down the embankment, killing him.

####Desert Hearts####
In 1959, Vivian Bell, a 35-year-old English professor at Columbia University in New York City, travels to Reno to establish residency in Nevada (a process that takes six weeks), in order to obtain a quick divorce. She stays at a guest house ranch for women who are waiting for their divorces to be finalized. The ranch is owned by Frances Parker.

Soon after her arrival in Reno, Vivian meets Cay Rivers, a young, free-spirited sculptor. Frances was the longtime mistress of Cay's late father, Glenn, and raised Cay after her biological mother (Glenn's wife) abandoned her. Cay is employed as a change operator at a casino in Reno, and is ending a relationship with Darrell, her controlling boss, saying that she was "attracted to his attraction" to her. When Vivian arrives, Cay takes an immediate interest in her; the proper, elegant Vivian is taken aback by Cay's lack of concern for what others think of her, as Cay has had relationships with women in the past. Frances, dismayed by Cay's lesbianism but frightened by the possibility of Cay leaving her alone, becomes resentful as Cay and Vivian grow closer.

After they attend an engagement party for Silver, Cay's best friend and co-worker, Cay takes a mildly inebriated Vivian to see Pyramid Lake at twilight and kisses her. Vivian returns the kiss passionately, but then becomes apprehensive and asks Cay to take her home. When they return to the ranch early the next morning, Frances angrily kicks Vivian out and accuses her of seducing Cay. Deeply hurt, Cay leaves the ranch immediately as Vivian transfers to a hotel near the casino for the rest of her stay.

Later, Cay arrives at Vivian's hotel room, where they initially clash but ultimately consummate their love after Cay removes her clothes and invites Vivian to bed. With the impending finalization of Vivian's divorce, the two struggle with the future of their relationship. At Silver's wedding, Cay attempts to reconcile with Frances, stating that Vivian "just reached in and put a string of lights around my heart," directly quoting Frances's own description of how she fell in love with Glenn.

After Vivian's divorce has become finalized, she packs up and boards a train to return to New York City. Cay still refuses to commit to leaving Nevada, but boards the train at the last minute as it begins to move away, agreeing to accompany Vivian until they reach the next station.

####Desert Nights####
A gang of thieves rob an African diamond company of diamonds worth $500,000, with two of its members posing as Lord and Lady Stonehill (who are expected to pay a visit). They kidnap its manager, Hugh Rand, and head into the "Calahari" Desert. After a few days in the sweltering heat, three of the crooks decide to take their chances in Cape Town instead and demand their share of the loot. Steve ("Lord Stonehill") gives them worthless glass.

He and Diana ("Lady Stonehill") keep going, taking Hugh with them. When their native porters desert, however, the thieves are forced to rely on Hugh to guide them. He gains the upper hand as they trek through the hostile desert with very little water. Later, one of the other crooks returns and tells them that the other two died from drinking from a poisoned waterhole, before succumbing himself. Steve reveals he poisoned the water to deter pursuit. Hugh keeps tensions high by romancing Diana, infuriating Steve. As they get thirstier and thirstier, a parched Diana offers Hugh first the diamonds, then herself, in exchange for some of the water. When he rejects both, she even offers to be his slave, but with the same result. Eventually, they reach a safe waterhole.

However, Hugh has been leading them in a circle, and they finally end up back at the diamond company office. Steve is first introduced to the real Lord and Lady Stonehill, before being taken away. Diana's fate is left in Hugh's hands. He tells her she is free, except that she will have to report to him every day for the rest of her life. Then he embraces her.

####Desert Saints####
Arthur Banks (Kiefer Sutherland) is an Ivy League-educated hitman for Latin American drug cartels who picks up solitary women, uses them as cover for a hit, then kills them. His trademark is a bullet with a tungsten core.  Over the years, he has become wary of the FBI's attempts to catch him, including by use of satellite and security cameras, which leads him to mostly stay in rural desert areas when not working.  The FBI team is spearheaded by Agent George Scanlon (Jamey Sheridan), who lost five years of his career when Banks killed a witness he was guarding 15 years ago while leaving no evidence behind. In a desperation sting, Scanlon plants Agent Bennie Harper (Melora Walters), portraying a drifter, in Banks' path, and Banks picks her up for what he says will be his last job, a hit on a Mexican presidential candidate. Scanlon and Agent Donna Marbury (Leslie Stefanson), along with several support agents, follow Banks and Harper through the Southwest, but the scheme goes wrong when one of the tailing agents is spotted and caught by Banks.

Thinking quickly, the agent pretends to be Harper's jealous and abusive ex-husband, but this plan goes awry when Banks, who seems more interested in Harper than normal, kills the agent out of Harper's sight and then disposes of the body in a manner not witnessed by Harper (incineration), leaving the FBI once again with no evidence to arrest him.  That night, Banks and Harper become lovers at a remote motel. Scanlon decides to cancel the sting after the agent's death and to withdraw Harper, but Harper talks him out of it, pointing out that Banks is their only lead to his employers in the drug cartels. On the road, Banks confides to Harper that he hates his job but hasn't had a chance to get out of it for years until now.

In Mexico, Harper double-crosses both Banks and the FBI, first shooting Banks to stop him from committing the assassination and handcuffing him to the balcony, but then killing the thugs who hired him and taking their key for the payoff from the hit. She tells Banks that she expects the FBI will be so happy to catch and question him that she'll depart with the payoff without much problem, which is why she leaves him alive. However, by the time Scanlon responds to her call on Banks' location, he has escaped. Meanwhile, the FBI agents follow Agent Marbury's sighting of a fleeing Harper to the local airport, only to lose her there, because the "sighting" was actually Marbury herself in a disguise, which she sheds in a washroom, permitting Harper's undetected escape.

In the last scene, Harper and Marbury meet in the desert and kiss, while discussing their new wealth. In the distant brush, we see Banks' boots and bloody hand, unnoticed by the two women. After the screen goes black, we hear a single shot.

####Desirable####
Helen Walbridge (Verree Teasdale) is a famous actress who does not want her true age to be known. She, therefore, keeps her 19-year-old daughter (Jean Muir) secreted away in a boarding school.

####Desperate Cargo####
On the Caribbean island of Puerto Nueva, a disparate group of individuals await a Boeing 314 Clipper, the Caribbean Clipper that will take them to Miami. Tony Bronson is the new purser for the flight who disrupts the robbery of New York journalist Jim Halsey at their hotel.

Halsey is a passenger on the same flight, flying to the U.S. to begin an assignment for his newspaper that will ultimately have him stationed in the Orient. Having some money left, Halsey arranges a double date for Tony with two entertainers in a sister act, Ann Howard and Peggy Morton. The women have learned that their show in New York has been canceled and are stranded in Puerto Nueva without the fare to leave. Ann tries to manipulate Tony into arranging free passage for them on the Clipper. Tony falls in love with Ann and Jim proposes to Peggy.

Among the other passengers are Madden, Ryan, Desser and Professor Carter, their ringleader and a former pilot who flew Clippers for the airline. Their plan is to hijack the aircraft in mid-air, rob the passengers and steal a shipment of $500,000 from the plane's safe. Carter will then land in a remote area of the Caribbean Sea, where the gang and their loot will be collected.

When they take over the aircraft by killing the navigator and copilot, Carter locks the passengers in their quarters and the crew in the cargo compartment. After landing, although the gang has the money stolen from their captives, the safe is locked and only Tony can open it. Ryan is ordered to force the purser to open the safe, but in a struggle for Ryan's gun, Tony shoots him and escapes, jumping from the aircraft. Swimming over to the cargo hold, he frees pilot Hank MacFarland and the rest of the crew, then returns to the cockpit where Carter threatens to burn the Clipper. Tony overpowers him, and holding the rest of the gang at gunpoint, he allows MacFarland to regain control of the aircraft. Jim and Tony are finally reunited with their sweethearts as the Clipper heads to Miami, where the police are waiting to apprehend the gang.

####Devil and the Deep####
Charles Sturm (Laughton) is a naval commander whose jealousy and abuse makes life miserable for his wife Diana (Bankhead). His suspicions fall on his own subordinate, Lieutenant Jaeckel (Grant). Although his suspicions are baseless, Sturm has Jaeckel transferred.  After Charles falls into another fit of paranoid rage and strikes Diana, she wanders off into the streets during a festival and soon encounters another officer, who turns out to be Jaeckel's replacement, Lieutenant Sempter (Cooper). Learning of their affair, which this time is real not imagined, Charles plots a terrible revenge.

On the night Commander Sturm's submarine is to sail, Diana goes aboard to warn Sempter of Sturm's dangerous frame of mind. But when Sturm arrives, he immediately orders the sub out to sea before Diana can return to shore. In the busy channel outside the harbor, Sturm deliberately maneuvers into the path of an oncoming ship, which rams and sinks the sub. Several compartments are flooded, but the crews are able to get out in time.

Trapped on the bottom, the survivors gather in the control room; Sempter and Sturm square off, asserting command, while Diana exposes Sturm's madness. Sempter takes control and organizes the crew's escape. In a detailed and substantially accurate technical sequence, Diana and the crew exit through the sub's escape trunk using Momsen lungs, and are rescued at the surface. Refusing to leave the ship, Sturm stays behind and lapses into raving insanity; he opens a watertight door to let in the sea, laughing maniacally as the water rises.

Afterwards, cleared of most charges by a court martial, Sempter encounters Diana again in a shop on the street. Soon it begins to rain, and they depart in a cab together.

####The Devil-Stone####
As described in a film magazine, Silas Martin (Marshall), a miser, marries Marcia Manot (Farrar) in order to gain possession of a valuable emerald she owns that once belonged to a Norse queen and is now cursed. After the wedding Marcia learns the true side of her husband and realizes that the marriage was a mistake. Silas steals the stone and places Marcia and Guy Sterling (Reid), his business partner, in a false light in order to get a divorce. Marcia sneaks in one night and discovers that Silas has the stone. She gains possession of it, but Silas attempts to regain it. They struggle, and Marcia kills him in self-defense. Sterling is accused of the murder, but the evidence clears him and the crime remains a mystery. Sterling marries Marcia and has an expert criminologist investigate the murder. He traces the crime to Marcia and, when confronted, she confesses. He gives her one month's leave of absence, after which she is to turn herself into the law. Marcia returns to her old home and gives the priest the emerald so he can make provision for homeless orphans. She returns and gives herself up to the criminologist. However, finding that her good deed has redeemed her, the criminologist does not turn her over to the law, and she and Sterling are happily reunited.

####The Devil to Pay!####
After selling his house and belongings in East Africa, upper-class black sheep Willie Hale (Colman) returns home to England, where he buys a dog with most of his remaining money. Lord Leeland (Kerr), his wealthy father, is furious and insists to Susan and Arthur, his other adult offspring, that he will kick his wayward son out if he dares show his face, seeing as he has given Willie ten starts in life already. However, when Willie does show up, the old man gives him £100 spending money instead.

After seeing his old girlfriend, theatre star Mary Crayle (Loy), Willie meets family friend and heiress Dorothy Hope (Young). He takes Dorothy and Susan to the Derby, where he and Dorothy have a wonderful time (and he wins a great deal of money betting on a 50-1 longshot). Dorothy then breaks her engagement to Grand Duke Paul (Cavanagh) because she finds bankrupt Willie far more charming.

Willie is reluctant to get involved with her, but when her father insists he will disinherit her if she marries Willie, he promptly proposes to her. She accepts, on condition that he promise to never see Mary ever again. Willie is unable to break the news to Mary by letter or telephone call, so he waits for her outside the theatre. She insists he come home with her, where he is finally able to tell her about his engagement. However, Mr. Hope gets Dorothy to agree to break up with Willie if he breaks his promise. He then hires a detective agency to watch the young man. He has Dorothy call Mary on the telephone. When Willie answers, she is heartbroken.

When Willie goes to try to explain himself, Dorothy pays him £5000 for the bitter "experience", assuming that he was merely after her inheritance. She is astonished when he walks off with the check, whistling. Willie has no intention of keeping the money. After he hears that Paul is actually destitute, he sends the full sum to the man under Dorothy's name. Paul gladly accepts it. Paul sends a note to Dorothy thanking her, delighting Dorothy and disillusioning her father. Dorothy and Willie make up before he sets sail for New Zealand to start a sheep farm. Much to Lord Leeland's delight, Dorothy's father offers to buy him a farm in England; if Willie fails this time, Dorothy's father will be footing the bill, not him.

####Devil's Playground####
Submarine chief petty officers Dorgan and Mason battle on land for the affections of dancehall girl Carmen. She marries Dorgan but makes a play for Mason when her husband is away on sea duty. The romantic rivalry is forgotten when Dorgan must rescue Mason and his crew from a sunken sub.

####The Devil's Holiday####
A golddigger marries a young man for his money, but finds that she really loves him and wants to keep him despite his family's disapproval.

####Devotion####
Shirley Mortimer is the second daughter of a wealthy London family, who view her as plain and treat her as little more than a servant. When her father's friend David Trent visits, she becomes smitten. Upon hearing that he and his son are in need of a new domestic, she disguises herself as an elderly matron, Mrs. Halifax, and begins to work for him. He is a defense attorney, currently defending a man, painter Norman Harrington, on the charge of murdering his wife.

As Mrs. Halifax, Shirley wins the friendship of David's son and dotes on David, making sure he takes care of himself. David, for his part, begins to suspect that "Mrs. Halifax" is not who she claims. Harrington is acquitted, and upon meeting Mrs. Halifax asks to paint her portrait; while doing so, he realizes she is actually a young woman, but agrees to keep her secret.

After spending an evening with Shirley (out of disguise) and her father, David realizes who "Mrs. Halifax" is, and reveals to Shirley that he has fallen in love with her. Before they can begin their romance, however, David's estranged wife returns; assuming the worst, Shirley angrily leaves. She becomes a model for Harrington, who soon professes his own feelings, but rather than ask her to marry him, merely proposes that they travel the world together with Shirley as his mistress. Twice hurt, Shirley returns to her family home and her servant-like life there.

Both Harrington and David turn up at the Mortimer home; Harrington makes his plea, but upon hearing from David that he had not seen his wife for four years, and intends to swiftly divorce her, Shirley happily reunites with him.

####Dirty Dancing####
In the summer of 1963, 17-year-old Frances "Baby" Houseman is vacationing with her family - cardiologist father Jake, mother Marge and older sister Lisa -  at Kellerman's, an upscale Catskills resort in the Borscht Belt owned by Jake's sarcastic best friend Max. Exploring one night, Baby secretly observes Max instructing the waiters, all Ivy League students, to romance the guests' daughters, no matter how unattractive. Max also demeans the working class entertainment staff, including Johnny Castle, one of the dance instructors. Baby is attracted to Johnny and dances briefly with him after his kindhearted cousin, Billy, introduces them at a secret "dirty dancing" party for resort staff. Max's grandson Neil flirts with Baby in the meantime.

Baby learns Johnny's dance partner Penny is pregnant by Robbie, a waiter and womanizer who attends Yale School of Medicine and now has his eye on Lisa. When Robbie refuses to help Penny, Baby, without explaining why, borrows money from her father to pay for Penny's abortion. At first, Penny declines as it would cause her and Johnny to miss a performance at a nearby resort, costing them the season's salary, but Baby volunteers to stand in for Penny. During her dance sessions with Johnny, they develop a mutual attraction, and despite their failure to execute a climactic lift, Johnny and Baby's performance is successful.

Back at Kellerman's, Penny is gravely injured by the botched abortion, and Baby enlists her father's help to stabilize Penny. Angered by Baby's deception, and assuming Johnny got Penny pregnant, Dr. Houseman orders Baby to stay away from them. Baby sneaks off to apologize to Johnny for her father's treatment, but Johnny feels he deserves it due to his lower status; Baby reassures him of his worth, declaring her love. They begin secretly seeing each other, and her father refuses to talk to her.



Johnny rejects an indecent proposal by Vivian Pressman, an adulterous wife, who instead sleeps with Robbie, inadvertently foiling Lisa's plan to lose her virginity to him. When Vivian spots Baby leaving Johnny's cabin, she feels spurned and attempts revenge on Johnny by claiming he stole her husband's wallet. Max is ready to fire Johnny, but Baby backs up his alibi, revealing she was with Johnny the night of the theft. The real thieves, Sydney and Sylvia Schumacher, are caught, but Johnny is still fired for mixing with Baby. Before leaving, Johnny tries to talk to Dr. Houseman but is accused of only trying to get at Baby. Baby later apologizes to her father for lying, but not for her romance with Johnny, and then accuses him of classism.

At the end-of-season talent show, Dr. Houseman gives Robbie a recommendation letter for medical school, but when Robbie admits that he got Penny pregnant, and then insults her and Baby, Dr. Houseman angrily grabs the letter back. Johnny arrives and disrupts the final song by bringing Baby up on stage and declaring that she has made him a better person, and then they perform the dance they practiced all summer, ending with a successful climactic lift. Dr. Houseman admits he was wrong about Johnny and reconciles with Baby, and all the staff and guests join Baby and Johnny dancing to "(I've Had) The Time of My Life".

####Dirty Dancing####
The opening scene takes place in New York City 1975, with a grown-up Frances saying how she never forgot her relationship with Johnny. In late summer 1963, affluent, college-bound Frances visits Kellerman's resort with her family and falls in love with working-class dance instructor Johnny Castle. The film closely follows the plot of the original film; although there are notable changes:
* Baby plans to study medicine, rather than economics.
* The role of Marjorie Houseman is significantly expanded. Feeling alienated by Jake's lack of attention and affection, despite her active efforts to engage him, Marjorie contacts a divorce lawyer and suggests she and Jake live apart. As Kellerman's is where Marjorie and Jake met and fell in love, Jake romances Marjorie and they have sex, reconciling.
* The role of Vivian Pressman is also expanded; now a divorcee who visits Kellerman's alone, she tells Marjorie of her intense loneliness at night. When Johnny is accused of theft, the stolen property is no longer Vivian's former husband's wallet, but instead his watch, which Johnny earlier rejected as a gift and which Vivian apparently planted among his belongings.
* Lisa rejects Robbie much earlier in the film. She befriends a new character, Marco, the resort's African-American pianist. Over his boss Tito's objections, Marco teaches Lisa to play the ukulele and performs with her in the talent show. Tito and Max acknowledge that the world is changing for the better.

A frame story is added. In 1975, Frances attends "Dirty Dancing", a Broadway show choreographed by Johnny and inspired by a book Frances wrote. Frances' faith in Johnny gave him the confidence to pursue a career. Frances is married and has a daughter. Frances takes a weekly dance lesson; she and Johnny encourage each other to continue dancing.

####Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights####
In 1958, Katey Miller (Romola Garai), her parents (Sela Ward and John Slattery), and her younger sister Susie (Mika Boorem) arrive in Cuba during the Cuban revolution. A self-described bookworm, Katey is not very happy about having to move to a different country during her senior year of high school, as she had been planning to attend Radcliffe College, although the rest of her family seem extremely pleased to be in Cuba.

Meeting several other rich American teenagers down by the pool - including James Phelps (Jonathan Jackson), the son of her father's boss - Katey becomes disgusted when one of the teenagers insults a local waiter when he drops their drinks because Katey accidentally bumped into him. Katey attempts to talk to the waiter—Javier (Diego Luna), who works at the hotel to support his family—because she feels awful about what had occurred, but he is not interested.

Katey watches a film of her mother and father dancing and wishes she could dance as well as they did. She and her father dance a bit. The next day in class, Katey is asked to read aloud from the Odyssey - a passage about love and passion. After class, James invites her to a party at the country club the next day and she accepts.

While walking home from school, she sees Javier dancing to street music, and he offers to walk her home. They stop to listen to a street band and police show up, stopping Javier while Katey runs away.

The next day, Katey tries some of the dance moves she saw. Javier sees her and asks her to come see the real dancers Saturday night, but she says she is already going to the country club. Javier gets upset and leaves. Katey wears one of her maid's dresses to the country club party and impresses James. Katey convinces him to take her to the Cuban nightclub "La Rosa Negra" (The Black Rose) where Javier is dancing with the ladies.

Javier dances with Katey while James sits at the bar. Soon he is accosted by Javier's brother, Carlos, who tells him that they will eventually kick the Americans out of Cuba. Javier comes over and argues with his brother. James takes Katey back to the car and assaults her after she refuses to kiss him. She slaps him and runs into the club, and Javier agrees to walk her home.

The next day, Katey walks by a dance class. The teacher (Patrick Swayze) asks if anyone wants to enter the big dance contest and then dances with Katey for a bit. She grabs a flyer for the competition.

While walking to the pool, James apologizes to Katey and then tells her that Susie saw Javier with her and got him fired. Katey argues with Susie and goes to find Javier. He is now working at a chop shop with Carlos. She asks him to enter the dance contest with her, but he refuses. Meanwhile, it is becoming apparent that Carlos is helping the revolutionaries.

The next day, Javier shows up at Katey's school and agrees to enter the dance contest with her. They start teaching each other dance moves and Javier convinces her to "feel the music." They practice all the time, and Katey dances some more with the dance teacher, until it is the night of the dance. Katey and Javier dance with the other couples on the floor and are chosen to go on to the next round.

Katey's parents disapprove of her relationship with Javier, but Katey reconciles with them. On the night of the contest's final round, while Katey and Javier are on the dance floor, Javier sees his brother and some revolutionaries disguised as waiters, and the police soon try to arrest them. The contest stops as everyone flees the club, and Javier has to save Carlos from the police. Javier and Carlos talk about how they miss their dad, then they hear that Batista has fled the country and join the celebration.

Later, Javier comes to the hotel and finds Katey. He takes her to the beach and they have sex. The next day, Katey's parents tell her they are leaving Cuba and she has one last night with Javier. They go to the Cuban club where they first danced, and the floor is theirs as they are dubbed King and Queen. Katey's family is there to see her, and Katey narrates that she doesn't know when she will see Javier again, but this will not be their last time to dance together.

####Discord and Harmony####
Joy reigns in a colony of struggling artists because Old Felix, a composer, has at last sold one of his symphonies. The night of its initial hearing at the Grand Opera House, the members of the colony turn out en masse. Too poor for orchestra seats, they gather in the gallery around the old composer. The old composer is happy almost to tears, and when the last note has died away there is a cry for the composer. Felix attempts to utter a few words of thanks, but is smothered with flowers. At his studio his friends have prepared for his welcome, and it is upon his arrival there that be feels the happiness which comes of success.

However, at the other end of the hall a different drama is being enacted. A girl sits beside her stricken mother, and as the merriment in the studio reaches its height, her mother dies. After all of his friends have left, the disconsolate girl seeks Felix's Felix. The old musician is touched and he carries all of his flowers into the death room and agrees to lend the girl financial assistance. The following day, Felix legally adopts the girl as his ward.

Lon, a sculptor, is impressed by her simplicity and beauty, and falls in love with her. Forrest, an artist, comes onto the girl and is rejected by her. Felix puts up the money for Lon to travel to Europe and study, and Lon secretly marries the girl before leaving, with Felix's consent. Forrest overhears when Lon and the girl are discussing their intimate plans, and unaware that they are now legally married, he spreads vicious gossip to discredit the girl's reputation, and finally on the eve of Lon's departure, he convinces Felix's friends that he is right. The old musician is utterly oblivious to what is going on; he scarcely notices that all of his friends are deserting him one by one. They decide to tell Felix exactly what kind of woman he has adopted. Old Felix drives them from his studio in anger. However, he is rendered feeble by the thought of losing all his old friends. He labors with feverish haste to complete his last symphony, but Life has taken too great a toll on him and he staggers into his bedroom and dies.

The girl finds him there, and tells his old friends he is dead. They congregate around Felix's bedside, and play his last symphony one more time, hoping his soul will forgive them. Lon, the sculptor, returns from Europe, famous, and while the party of friends are still standing around the death-bed, Lon enters the room and greets the girl as his wife. Now the culprits understand the grave injustice of their treatment of Old Felix, and again gather around his bed in mourning.

####Dishonored####
The story opens in 1915 on the streets of Vienna, Austria, in war-torn Europe. The corpse of a prostitute is removed by the authorities from a tenement building in the red-light district – a case of suicide. When Marie Kolverer, a fellow streetwalker, offers a word of sympathy, the concierge warns that she is destined to suffer the same fate. She responds: "No I am not. I am not afraid of life... Although I am not afraid of death, either."

The Chief of Austrian Secret Service overhears Marie's remark. He approaches her, and she invites him up to her flat, assuming the elderly man is engaging her for sex. The Chief discovers Marie is a war widow, as well as an accomplished pianist, and is very attached to her pet black cat. He poses as a foreign agent to test her loyalty and, to his satisfaction, she quietly alerts a constable. The gentleman establishes his credentials and invites Marie to see him at central intelligence headquarters.

In the Chief's office, he explains to Marie that Austrian military forces have been suffering terrible losses due to a security leak, and he has been on the lookout for an attractive female to serve as a secret agent to help expose the man he thinks is the traitor: Colonel von Hindau, who is attached to the chief of staff of the Austrian army. The Chief says he thinks Marie may be right for the job. She accepts the offer, remarking that, rather than the generous compensation the Chief promises, what primarily appeals to her is the opportunity to serve "the cause of Austria." Marie is enlisted in the Secret Service as Agent X-27.

Marie/X-27 attracts Hindau's attention at a masquerade ball and gets invited back to his private apartment. During her faux seduction, the Chief places a telephone call to Hindau, requiring that he briefly absent himself and leaving X-27 free to search his personal belongings. When his butler mentions that Hindau does not smoke, she remembers that the man who Hindau dropped off on the way home from the ball had given Hindau a cigarette, which she finds and from which she removes a secret message. Hindau returns from his phone call and, discovering his cover is blown, offers his compliments to X-27, retrieves his service revolver, and kills himself.

The secret message leads X-27 to a casino, where she finds the man who had given Hindau the cigarette, who turns out to be Colonel Kranau, a Russian spy. They flirt for a bit before, sensing danger, he escapes. When X-27 reports her failure, the Chief orders her to disengage, saying that Kranau "is too clever to be trapped by a woman."

Later than night, Kranau breaks into X-27's apartment while she is loudly playing the piano and discovers the orders for her next assignment: to fly over the Polish border, infiltrate the Russian military headquarters there, and acquire the timetable for an imminent military offensive. He then empties her pistol and disables the telephone before confronting her. They flirt a bit more before X-27 calls Kranau a clown, to which he responds that he is a soldier who sometimes crosses enemy lines and engages in subterfuge, whereas she uses her sexuality to "trick men into death". She attempts to delay him with a kiss, but he flees rather than risk falling in love with a "devil".

Behind enemy lines and accompanied by her black cat, X-27 disguises herself as a dimwitted peasant girl and gains employment as a chambermaid in the Russian officers' quarters. She quickly seduces a Russian senior officer, Colonel Kovrin, with liquor and sex play, and obtains the top secret plans for the attack, which she copies in a code that looks like it is sheet music for a musical composition. Kranau, who is stationed at the quarters, observes X-27's black cat stalking the hallway, alerting him to her presence. After a brief chase, he captures her and discovers the sheet music. When he performs the atonal piece on the piano, he realizes it is a code and promptly burns the score, confident he has thwarted X-27's mission.

Kranau informs X-27 that she will be put to death the next morning, but discovers he has fallen in love with her. After they spend the night together, X-27 manages to drug Kranau and make her escape back to Austria. She had committed the coded musical notation to memory when Kranau played it, so she is able to reconstruct the plans. Armed with this information, the Austrians crush the Russian offensive.

Thousands of Russian troops are captured, Kranau among them. When Austrian secret service agents, with X-27 in attendance, examine the prisoners, Kranau is identified as Agent H-14 and taken into custody. X-27 pretends not to know him, but requests that she be allowed to interrogate him privately, ostensibly to extract valuable information before he is summarily executed. Loath to see her lover lose his life, she "accidentally" drops her gun, permitting him to escape. She is arrested, convicted of treason, and sentenced to death.

Marie makes two requests of a monk that visits her while she is awaiting execution: that she be furnished with a piano in her cell, and that she be permitted to wear the clothing in which she "served, not my country, but my countrymen" (that is, what she wore as a streetwalker). Both requests are granted.

Standing before the firing squad, Marie declines a blindfold and coolly applies lipstick. After a short delay caused by a futile protest from a youthful officer, she is shot.

####Disobedience####
Long plot|date=July 2021


The old Rav Krushka succumbs to illness while delivering a sermon on free will to his Orthodox Jewish congregation in North London. Ronit, the Rav's estranged daughter who lives and works in New York City as a photographer, returns to London.

Ronit arrives at the home of her childhood friend, Dovid Kuperman, a chosen disciple of her father, as members of her father's congregation pay their respects to the deceased. Ronit fails to fit in, behaving in a manner not conforming to Orthodox culture. Despite his surprise at Ronit's visit, Dovid insists she stay with him. Ronit is surprised to discover that Esti, a childhood friend to both of them, is now Dovid's wife.

Ronit and her two friends attend Shabbat dinner at Ronit's uncle's house. Ronit tries to ask her uncle about selling the house, but he says they cannot discuss business on the Sabbath. Ronit is questioned by the other party guests about changing her name and is told to take her mother's candlesticks so she may one day give them to her children. One of the guests tells Ronit that she should get married because it is what should be done. Ronit says that if she had stayed, she probably would have been married off, but she would have been suicidal. She leaves to walk home, joined by Dovid and Esti, and talk about her father.

Ronit visits her uncle Moshe at his office to discuss the disposition of her father's house but discovers her father has left all of his possessions to the synagogue and is only allowed inside to retrieve personal items. Esti accompanies her, and after they reminisce about their memories of the Rav's house, Esti tenderly kisses Ronit, who initially resists before reciprocating. Esti confesses to having asked Ronit to be notified of her father's death out of a desire to see her again.

Esti reveals her unhappiness with her life choices, taken based on the Rav's advice and her strong belief in HaShem. After being caught in a romantic tryst resulting in Ronit's departure from the community, neither Ronit nor Esti have been with other women. While Ronit is bisexual, Esti admits that she is a lesbian. On the way home, they stop at a nearby park and kiss in an empty tennis court, but are spotted by a couple from the congregation. Esti walks away unseen, but the couple identify Ronit and suspect that the other woman was Esti, despite Ronit's unconvincing denial.

The next day, Esti, who works as a teacher at the local Jewish school, is called into the headmistress' office after the couple deliver a complaint about Esti and Ronit's behaviour. At the synagogue, Dovid is asked to take over the Rav's duties. He is warned about Ronit but insists that he keeps his house in order. Meanwhile, Ronit tells a shaken Esti that she is leaving the next day, without attending her father's hesped. The two of them sneak away to a hotel room in central London for passionate sex. After, Esti tells Ronit that she thought of her often, imagining her New York apartment and keeping track of the time difference. Esti brings up the memory of the Rav walking in on them when they were young girls. Ronit says she regrets never taking his portrait. Ronit then tells Esti that she wants to take her picture. Esti is initially shy but poses with Ronit's cigarette.

Esti arrives home late and turns down Dovid when he tries to initiate intimacy. The next morning Esti feels sick. Later that morning Dovid informs Esti that Mrs Shapiro had made a formal complaint, and he asks her to tell him the truth. Esti confesses that she kissed Ronit and expresses her feelings, but Dovid tells her that Ronit is taking advantage of her. Esti denies this and says that she wanted this to happen, causing Dovid to leave. Ronit, who overhears the argument, suggests that Esti should leave Dovid.

Dovid attends to his duties at the synagogue, clearly preoccupied. At dinner that night, Ronit announces that she has booked a flight and is leaving that night without attending the hesped, to Esti's dismay. That night, after Dovid falls asleep, Esti goes to a drugstore and purchases a pregnancy test. Later in a hotel room, she begins Shuckling against a cabinet and crying.

The next morning, Ronit is about to board her flight when Dovid calls her and reports that Esti is missing. Ronit and Dovid spend the day looking for Esti. They return to his home at night to find Esti already there. She reveals that she is pregnant but asks for her freedom from Dovid by stating she wants to give her unborn child a chance to decide whether or not to be part of their community. Dovid leaves, upset.

Ronit and Esti attend the Rav's hesped, which is to be given by Dovid in front of the entire congregation. After the opening Zemirot, Ronit invites Esti to come live with her in New York. Dovid begins to speak but is unable to follow his prepared text. Instead, he reminds the congregation of the sermon that the Rav was delivering right before he died on the freedom to choose. Under the guise of addressing the congregation, he releases Esti from their marriage and then publicly turns down the offer of becoming the congregation's new spiritual guide. Esti finds him outside and they embrace. Dovid motions for Ronit to join in their embrace, finally reconciling their old friendship.

The next morning, Ronit departs for New York, cordially bidding Dovid and Esti goodbye. As Ronit's cab is driving away, Esti chases after Ronit and gives her a final kiss, and they confess their love for each other. Ronit tells Esti that she will be a brilliant mother, and they promise to keep in touch. Ronit makes a detour to her father's grave to bid him a final goodbye and take a picture of his grave.

####The Divine Woman####
Marianne (Greta Garbo) is a poor French country girl who goes to Paris in the 1860s to seek her fortune as an actress. As she rises to success in the theatre, she must choose between the romantic attentions of two men. The first is Lucien (Lars Hanson), a poor but passionate young soldier who deserts the army to be with Marianne and goes to jail after stealing a dress to give her. Her other suitor is Henry Legrand (Lowell Sherman), a wealthy middle-aged Paris producer who offers her fame and fortune.

####Dr. Monica####
Mary Hathaway gives birth to a baby girl delivered by Dr. Monica Braden. Monica discovers her husband, John, is the child's father. John is unaware his affair with Mary resulted in her pregnancy. Monica prepares to leave John by telling him she is going abroad. Mary learns that Monica knows the truth and decides to leave the child in Monica's care. Mary, a pilot, flies her plane over the ocean, which is later reported to have vanished. When John asks Monica about the baby, Monica lies making John believe the baby was abandoned by both parents. In contemplating their new role, Monica looks at John and says "She's yours," while John unknowingly smiles.

####The Dolly Sisters####
In 1904, Uncle Latsie comes to New York from Hungary with two little nieces, Jenny and Rosie who immediately take to cafe dancing. In 1912, they're still at it, but to pay Uncle's card debts they decide to go into vaudeville. They meet another up-and-coming act, singer Harry Fox. Jenny falls in love with him.

Harry struggles while the sisters' fame rises. Rosie is distrustful but Jenny dates him anyway. Harry sings to Jenny the latest song he has composed. A producer hears it and gives him the break he's been waiting for. Jenny and Harry get married but, just as success comes to Harry, war in Europe breaks out and he enlists.

Rosie persuades Jenny to take an engagement with the Folies Bergere in Paris. As they tour Europe and achieve more success and admirers, the war ends. Harry asks her to come home but Rosie asks her to stay with the show. Harry insinuates there should be a divorce. The Dolly sisters continue their tour of Europe, where Jenny takes to gambling and dates one of her wealthy suitors.

Rosie is secretly engaged to her American boyfriend Irving Netcher, who owns department stores. Now she plans to leave the act but Jenny overhears this and decides to accept a marriage proposal. As they drive away from a party, Jenny is overwhelmed by memories of Harry and ends up crashing the car. Harry, who just got engaged to Leonora Baldwin, shows his concern. After several months of recovering in a French hospital, Jenny returns to New York. During a benefit show, she and Rosie reunite as Dolly Sisters. Harry, who also performs, introduces Leonora, who realizes that Harry still loves Jenny and leaves the theater during Harry's act. On stage, Jenny and Rosie both join Harry to finish his number.

####Don Juan####
In the prologue, Don José, warned of his wife's infidelity, seals his wife's lover alive in his hiding place and drives her from the castle; abandoned to his lust, he is stabbed by his last mistress, and with his dying words he implores his son, Don Juan, to take all from women but yield nothing. Ten years later, young Don Juan, a graduate of the University of Pisa, is famous as a lover and pursued by many women, including the powerful Lucrezia Borgia, who invites him to her ball. His contempt for her incites her hatred of Adriana, the daughter of the Duke Della Varnese, with whom he is enraptured; and Lucrezia plots to marry her to Count Giano Donati, one of the Borgia henchmen, and poison the duke. Don Juan intervenes and thwarts the scheme, winning the love of Adriana, but the Borgia declare war on the duke's kinsmen, offering them safety if Adriana marries Donati; Don Juan is summoned to the wedding, but he prefers death to marriage with Lucrezia. He escapes and kills Donati in a duel. The lovers are led to the death-tower, but while Adriana pretends suicide, he escapes; and following a series of battles, he defeats his pursuers and is united with Adriana.

####Doomsday####
In Sussex, England after the Great War, former aristocrat Mary Viner (Florence Vidor) and her father, retired sea captain Hesketh Viner (Charles A. Stevenson), live in a small humble cottage on Doomsday, a large and valuable farm property owned by a wealthy landlord named Percival Fream (Lawrence Grant). Mary is attracted to another tenant at Doomsday, Arnold Furze (Gary Cooper), a young ex-officer and farmer who works the land with pride as if it were his own. Soon she and Arnold fall in love, but she longs to escape her oppressive poverty.

Meanwhile, the self-made wealthy landlord Percival develops an attraction to Mary and hopes to marry the former aristocrat as evidence of his rising social status. One day middle-aged Percival makes his intentions known to Mary, who cannot resist his palatial home and the lifestyle he offers her. Despite her love for Arnold, she selfishly agrees to marry Percival. After the wedding, they leave Mary's infirm father in the care of a nurse and sail to the Continent and spend the next year living abroad. During that time, Percival gives her jewelry and expensive dresses, but does not give her the love she desires. He treats her as just another one of his belongings to display in front of his friends.

Eventually, Mary discovers that the lifestyle she chose has not brought her happiness and that her loveless marriage to Percival was a mistake. After she learns of her father's death, she asks Percival for an annulment. Left with no money and no place to live, Mary ends up at Arnold's cottage and humbly offers to work for him as a housekeeper. Still feeling betrayed by Mary's earlier rejection of their love, Arnold cautiously accepts her offer, but for the next six months, he treats her in an insensitive and overbearing manner. Gradually, their love is rekindled, Arnold atones for his harsh behavior, and the two once again find happiness in each other.

####Double Harness####
When spoiled younger sister Valerie Colby (Lucile Browne) becomes engaged to be married to Dennis Moore (George Meeker), a more level-headed Joan (Ann Harding) decides to do the same, not because she is in love, but in order to make something of herself. She chooses unambitious, wealthy playboy John Fletcher (William Powell), who owns a struggling shipping line.

She eventually spends the night in his apartment. To Joan's annoyance, she finds herself falling in love with him. When he shows no interest in marrying her, she forces the issue. She arranges for her father, Colonel Sam Colby (Henry Stephenson), to find them in a compromising position. John graciously agrees to do the honorable thing and marry her. However, on their honeymoon cruise, he lets her know that he expects her to grant him a divorce after a decent interval. They settle on six months.

Joan prods her husband into taking an interest in his family business. To his surprise, he finds that he enjoys it. As the new Postmaster General (Wallis Clark) is a good friend of her father's, Joan invites him to dinner, hoping to land a government contract for John's company.

Meanwhile, Valerie goes into debt due to her extravagant spending habits and borrows from her big sister over and over again. Joan gives Valerie all she can afford without touching John's money. Finally, she pawns a ring for half the $500 Valerie needs, but tells her that it is the last time.

That same day, John finally realizes that he loves his wife. However, when he goes home, Valerie goes to John behind Joan's back and cons him into giving her a check. Joan finds out and tears up the check. In her anger, Valerie blurts out how Joan trapped John into marriage.

Disillusioned, he turns to his former paramour, Mrs. Monica Page (Lilian Bond). Joan goes to Monica's apartment and confesses all, including the fact that she has fallen in love with him, to no avail. She then tries to salvage her dinner party. To her delight, John shows up and makes it clear that he believes and forgives her.

####The Dove####
A despot falls for a dancing girl. After she rejects him, she has her other beau framed for murder.

####Down to the Sea in Ships####
Captain Charles W. Morgan (William Walcott) is a well-respected businessman who owns a fleet of whaling ships in the Quaker town of New Bedford, Massachusetts. He is very close to his shy, obedient daughter, Patience (Marguerite Courtot), and tells her that she must marry a man who is a whaler and a Quaker, like him. His son and daughter-in-law were lost ten years before while on a whaling expedition; eventually, their baby, his granddaughter Dot (Clara Bow), was found "in a chest on a raft bundled in sail cloth." He has raised her ever since. Dot is a mischievous, rebellious child, who wants to be a whaler when she grows up, an ambition that is not acceptable for a female among her people.

One day, a childhood friend of Patience's, Allan Dexter (Raymond McKee) arrives in town, recently back from college. He and Patience renew their acquaintance and fall in love. He goes to ask Captain Morgan for permission to marry Patience, but Captain Morgan turns him out of the house, informing him that he is not a suitable husband for her because he is neither a Quaker nor a whaler.

Meanwhile, Samuel Siggs (J. Thornton Baston), an effeminate Chinese man masquerading as a white man, connives to steal Captain Morgan's ships to transport African gold. He dresses up as a Quaker and acquires a position of authority in Morgan's business by pretending to be an experienced whaler. After spying Morgan's pretty daughter Patience, he also plans to finagle his way into marrying her. Learning of Dexter's love for her, he has his fellow con artist Jake Finner (Patrick Hartigan), "fearless, lawless and godless", drug the young man's drink and has him kidnapped, tied up, and placed on the next outgoing whaling vessel, hoping never to see him again. Also on the ship is Dot, who has dressed as a boy and stowed away below deck. Because of their disappearance, it is rumored that Dexter and Dot joined the Oregon Wagon Train and have gone west together.

Miles out to sea, Dexter is untied and immediately put to work. Wanting to prove himself to Morgan, he decides to put all his effort into working long hard hours to win his chance to harpoon a whale, which would make him an accomplished whalesman. Meanwhile, Jake Finner, who has killed the captain and taken over the ship, finds Dot, discovers she is a girl, and attacks her. Because he has been treating the men on board like slaves, they mutiny against Finner, appointing Dexter as captain, while Dot's friend Jimmie, the cabin boy, rescues her from Finner's clutches.

After harpooning a whale and learning why he was Shanghaied, Dexter arranges to have the vessel return to port. Meanwhile, Captain Morgan has fallen ill, fears that he is dying, and commands Patience to marry Siggs as his last wish. She reluctantly agrees. Dexter arrives just in time to save Patience, and the lovers are reunited at the end.

####Dramatic School####
Modest, kind-hearted aspiring actress Louise Mauban (Luise Rainer) attends the Paris School of Drama while working nights at a dreary factory job, where she has made friends with another worker. She often comes to class late but rather than admit she has to work nights, she tells her fellow students stories of a luxurious life and her wealthy, handsome boyfriend, Marquis Andre D'Abbencourt (Alan Marshal). The other girls begin to suspect that her stories are just fantasies that she weaves to relieve her humdrum life. One of them, Nana (Paulette Goddard), maliciously invites Louise to her "birthday party", having arranged for Andre to attend. However, the plan backfires. Andre is enchanted by Louise and the lie turns into the truth. He showers her with gifts and takes her out every night.

Andre eventually becomes enamored of another woman and breaks up with Louise by letter. When Louise's friends show up, she tells them to take their pick of the fabulous clothes Andre has given her. However, to a late-arriving Nana, she shows the letter, as her "gift". Nana's heart is softened to her rival and they become friends.

One of the teachers is impressed by Louise's sincerity and talent, but another teacher and aging star,  Madame Therese Charlot (Gale Sondergaard), is jealous of Louise. Madame Therese is upset to learn from the school's director, Monsieur Pasquel, Sr. (Henry Stephenson) that she will not get the leading role in a new play about Joan of Arc because she is no longer young enough. In her bitterness, she lashes out when Louise is late to class once again; she informs Louise that she will demand her expulsion. Louise follows her and, to Charlot's surprise, thanks her. Louise explains that she believes that to be a great star, she must suffer, as Madame Charlot herself had suffered early in her own career.

The next day, Louise defiantly returns to class. Madame Charlot announces that she has accepted another, more mature role in the play and recommended Louise for the lead. Louise gets the part and is a great success on opening night, receiving a standing ovation. On the night of her triumph, she turns down party invitations, including one from Andre, to celebrate with her friend from the factory.

####Dream Boy####
Fifteen-year-old Nathan Davies (Stephan Bender) moves to St. Francisville, Louisiana, a small Southern town with his parents (Thomas Jay Ryan and Diana Scarwid) and starts to befriend the older boy next door, Roy (Maximillian Roeg), fellow high school student and bus driver, who is in a relationship with Evelyn (Rooney Mara). Nathan and Roy start to develop their relationship by helping each other with school work at Nathan's house. While Roy is teaching Nathan how to solve an algebra problem, Nathan touches his hand. Roy pulls away at first, but then takes hold of Nathan's hand.

After they finish their work, the boys go for a walk in the woods, finding an old cemetery, where they stop and start kissing. They undress down to everything but socks and underwear, and lie in an embrace together. The relationship between Nathan and his father is revealed to be a little strange and full of tension. One morning Roy pulls the bus into a part in the woods and they kiss and Nathan touches Roy. Roy asks if Nathan has ever done this with anyone before, and he promises he never has. Roy takes Nathan swimming with Burke and Randy, but Nathan admits he can't swim. While watching Roy, Burke threatens to throw him in the water, but Roy stops him. While Roy is driving them home, he pulls onto the side of the road and they start kissing. When Nathan starts to have sex with Roy, Roy angrily stops him, asking "who taught [him] to screw like that". Nathan swears "no one".

When Nathan gets home that night, his father wants to know if he had a good time. Nathan is on the brink of tears as he answers his father. He ties a string up to his dresser drawer and bedpost, tucks his pillows under his sheets, and moves to the floor to sleep. In the night he hears a thud and runs from his room, because it's his father sneaking in. It is later revealed that his father had touched him in the past inappropriately. Nathan sleeps outside and comes home only for meals, but returns to his tree outside after eating.

Roy finds him and offers him a place to sleep in his family's barn. The next morning, Nathan goes home for breakfast and his father catches him, yelling at him to not run from him, but Nathan's mother interrupts and he runs to the school bus. Later, Roy tells Nathan they're going camping with Burke and Randy that weekend. That night, Roy tells ghost stories around the campfire, and in their tent, Nathan gives Roy a blowjob, and Roy asks him if he minds when Roy doesn't do those things back to him, and Nathan says he doesn't mind. Hiking through the woods, the boys find an old plantation house. They go inside to investigate, and Nathan hears a voice call his name, resembling his father's. They then find cloth with what looks like to be blood on it, and they smell sulfur (which Nathan says is the smell of the Devil), and the boys see a shadow move up the stairs.

Burke takes the flashlight from Roy and goes to investigate with Randy. Roy and Nathan go into a bedroom and talk, and Nathan says he feels as if he'll never leave that house. He hears the voice again and Roy goes to see if the guys are back. Nathan sees his father and closes his eyes tight, when Roy enters the room again. He tells Nathan not to look at whatever he's seeing anymore and kisses him. Roy gets down on his knees and proceeds to fellate Nathan, when Burke and Randy find them. Roy storms out of the room, and Nathan hears the voice again, and is suddenly knocked unconscious. A shadow of a person carries him up the stairs.

In the attic, Burke rapes Nathan, and realizing what he's done, disgusted with himself, he breaks an arm off a rocking chair and knocks Nathan over the head with it. Blood starts pooling on the floor beneath Nathan's head, and Burke leaves him in the attic. When Roy and Randy find Nathan early the next morning, he appears to be dead. Roy tells Randy to go on and find Burke, whom he says he doesn't believe at this point about what happened. Roy cries once Randy leaves, then Roy leaves too. The police arrive, bringing Nathan's father who tearfully covers Nathan's face with a blanket.

Nathan awakens as if he's resurrected from the dead, gets up and leaves the plantation house. He wanders for a long time still dazed from the blow to his head. Finally he sees Roy coming out of Sunday evening church, but Roy is with his family, so Nathan wanders around some more waiting for Roy to get home. Nathan's mother leaves his father, and Nathan, his head now clear, finds Roy crying in the barn where Nathan slept while hiding from his father. As Roy looks up, he sees Nathan and hugs him.

At the end of the story, Roy is driving the bus and looks in the mirror to an empty seat, but when he looks a second time, Nathan is there smiling at him.

####Dream Street####
As described in a film magazine review, Gypsy Fair, a young dancer, is forced through circumstances to live in the London Limehouse district and associate with the other residents there. Through her courage and loyalty, she is forced into numerous hazardous situations from all of which she emerges unharmed. Finally, she marries the man she has reformed and finds true happiness with him.

####Dreamgirls####
In 1962 Detroit, Michigan, young car salesman Curtis Taylor Jr. meets a Black girl group known as "The Dreamettes", consisting of lead singer Effie White and backup singers Deena Jones and Lorrell Robinson, at an R&B amateur talent show at the Detroit Theatre. Presenting himself as their new manager, he recruits them as backup singers for Chitlin' Circuit R&B star Jimmy "Thunder" Early.

Curtis soon starts his own record label, Rainbow Records, out of his Detroit car dealership, appointing Effie's brother C.C. head songwriter. When their first single "Cadillac Car" fails after white pop group "Dave and the Sweethearts" releases a cover version, Curtis, C.C., and their producer Wayne turn to payola to make "Jimmy Early & The Dreamettes" mainstream pop stars. Offstage, Effie falls in love with Curtis while the married Jimmy does likewise with Lorrell.

Jimmy's manager, Marty Madison, grows weary of Curtis' plans to make his client more pop-friendly and walks out. When Jimmy bombs in front of an all-white Miami Beach supper club audience, Curtis sends him out on the road alone, keeping The Dreamettes behind to headline in his place. He appoints the slimmer, more conventionally attractive Deena as the new lead singer, renaming them "The Dreams". He feels Effie's plus size figure and distinctive, soulful voice will not attract white audiences, (as Deena's voice, although more basic and generic, is more marketable).

Aided by new songs and a new image, Curtis and C.C. transform The Dreams into a top-selling mainstream pop group. By 1965, however, Effie begins acting out, particularly when Curtis' affections also turn towards Deena. He eventually drops Effie, hiring his secretary Michelle Morris to replace her beginning with their 1966 New Year's Eve debut in Las Vegas as "Deena Jones & the Dreams." Though Effie defiantly and desperately appeals to Curtis, he, C.C., and The Dreams abandon her, forging ahead to stardom. Unbeknownst to them Effie is pregnant with Curtis's child, but she doesn't say anything.

By 1973, Effie has become an impoverished welfare mother living in Detroit with her daughter Magic. To restart her music career, she hires Marty as her manager and after a pep talk by him begins performing at a local club. Meanwhile, The Dreams have become superstars and Rainbow Records, having moved to Los Angeles is now the biggest pop business in the country. Curtis pitches a film about Cleopatra to star Deena, whom he has also married. However, Deena clandestinely hopes the film will never come to be, pursuing other acting gigs.

The following year, Jimmy has descended into drug addiction due to Curtis' focus on Deena, along with the rejection of the charity single he recorded. During a televised special of Rainbow's tenth anniversary, Jimmy strays off from his soulful act to do an impromptu rap. This is a hit with the audience until Jimmy goes too far and drops his pants. Curtis promptly drops him from the label and Lorrell ends their affair. Sometime later, C.C., who feels Curtis is undermining his songs' artistic merit by making them into disco music, quits the label. Then everyone learns of Jimmy's unexpected death from a heroin overdose, which greatly upsets Lorrell.

Disillusioned by Jimmy's death and Curtis' cold reaction to the news, C.C. leaves Los Angeles and reconciles with Effie in Detroit. He writes and produces a comeback single for her, "One Night Only". Just as it's gaining local radio play, Curtis uses payola to force radio stations to play The Dreams' disco cover of the song. The plan falls apart, however, as Deena, increasingly angry over how Curtis controls her career, discovers his schemes and contacts Effie, who arrives in Los Angeles with C.C., Marty, and a lawyer.

Deena and Effie reconcile, with Effie telling her that Curtis is Magic's father. They force Curtis to nationally distribute Effie's record to avoid being reported to the FBI. Inspired by Effie's victory and realizing Curtis' true character, Deena leaves him.

By 1975, The Dreams give a farewell performance at the Detroit Theater, inviting Effie for the final song. Towards the end, Curtis notices Magic in the front row, realizing she is his daughter.

####Drums of Love####
After finding out her father and his estate is in danger, Princess Emanuella saves his life by marrying Duke Cathos de Alvia, a grotesque hunchback. She actually is in love with Leonardo, his attractive younger brother. They already had an affair before the marriage, but continue secretly meeting each other. In the end, Cathos finds out about his wife's unfaithfulness and stabs both his wife and brother to death.

####Dying Young####
Hilary O'Neil is a beautiful, outgoing yet cautious young woman who has had little luck in work or love. After recently parting ways with her boyfriend when she caught him cheating, Hilary finds herself living with her eccentric mother. One day, Hilary answers an ad in a newspaper for a nurse only to find herself being escorted out before the interview starts.

Victor Geddes is a well-educated, rich, and shy 28-year-old. As the film progresses, Victor's health worsens progressively, due to leukemia. Despite his father's protests, Victor hires Hilary to be his live-in caretaker while he undergoes a traumatic course of chemotherapy. Hilary becomes insecure of her ability to care for Victor after her first exposure to the side effects of his chemotherapy treatment. She researches leukemia and stocks healthier food in the kitchen.

Victor is "finished" with his chemotherapy and suggests they take a vacation to the coast. They rent a house and Hilary begins to feel that she is no longer needed to care for him. They fall in love and continue living at the coast. Victor hides his use of morphine to kill the pain. During dinner with one of the friends they made at the coast, Victor starts acting aggressively and irrationally. He collapses and is helped to bed. Hilary searches the garbage and discovers his used syringes. She confronts him and he admits he was not finished with his chemotherapy. Victor explains that he wants quality in his life and Hilary says that he has been lying to her. She calls his father, who comes to take him home, but Victor wants to stay for one last Christmas party. Hilary and Victor reconnect at the party and he tells her that he is leaving with his father to go back to the hospital in the morning.

After speaking with Victor's father, who says Victor wants to spend one night alone before leaving, Hilary goes back to the house they rented only to find Victor packing clothes, ready to run away and not go with his father to the hospital. Hilary confronts him about running away and Victor admits that he is afraid of hoping. At this confession, Hilary finally tells Victor she loves him and they then decide to go back to the hospital, where he will fight for his life with Hilary. The last scene of the film shows Victor and Hilary leaving the house, which has a small picture of Gustav Klimt's "Adam and Eve" (the first painting Victor shows Hilary) in the window.

####Dynamite####
Coal miner Hagon Derk is sentenced to hang for murder. His only concern is for his young sister Katie, who will be left all alone. Frivolous socialite Cynthia Crothers has her own troubles. By the terms of her grandfather's will, if she is not married by her twenty-third birthday (only a month away), she will not inherit his millions and will be left penniless. She is "engaged" to Roger Towne, but he is married to Marcia. Marcia has her own lover, Marco, and is willing to grant Roger a divorce ... for the right price. The two women haggle behind Roger's back and settle on $100,000.

Hagon, desperate to provide for Katie, offers his body for $10,000 in a newspaper ad. Cynthia offers him the money in exchange for him marrying her. He accepts. Just minutes before Hagon's execution though, the real killer is goaded into attacking a man with a gun and is fatally shot. He confesses before dying, and Hagon is released.

Hagon goes to see his stunned wife. When her friends show up to party the night away, he sees Cynthia writing a $25,000 check as a down payment to Marcia and discussing the terms of their agreement. Hagon grabs the check stashed in Marcia's garter and shows it to Roger as proof that he has been made a pawn. Roger tells Cynthia that he will settle with Marcia himself, but if Cynthia gives her the check, they are through. Cynthia rips up the check as Marcia threatens to expose the plot. The pair go downstairs where Cynthia reveals that she married another man. When Hagon reveals he is her husband, Cynthia is made a laughingstock. Hagon throws out the partygoers, which frightens the men and arouses the women. Cynthia shows little appreciation for his saving her from the mockery and locks herself in her room. Hagon breaks down her door. After a brief confrontation, Hagon flings $10,000 at her and leaves.

When Cynthia is informed that she must actually be living with her husband on her birthday, she drives to his mining town. He refuses to go back to her apartment, so she persuades him to let her stay with him. He agrees on condition that she cook and clean, just like a real wife, and locks up her fancy car in his tool shed. Her first attempt at preparing a meal is a dismal failure. Katie kindly helps out and keeps it a secret from Hagon, but Cynthia confesses. Hagon tells her it is the first honest thing he has seen her do.

The next day, while shopping at the local store, Cynthia buys a gift for a young boy. His mother objects, but the child runs away with his present and is hurt in a traffic accident. The doctor says that only a brain specialist in the city can save him, but the boy only has hours to live. Cynthia breaks into the tool shed, speeds away in her car and returns with the specialist. The child is saved.

Hagon returns from work to find the door of his tool shed demolished and learns that Cynthia withdrew $2,000 from the bank (to pay the specialist). He assumes that she got tired of his way of life and went to see Roger. When Hagon demands an explanation, Cynthia is too disheartened to reply. She telephones Roger to come for her. However, the child's mother tells Hagon what Cynthia has done.

When Roger shows up, he insists on seeing Hagon before leaving. They go down into the mine to find him. A cave-in traps the trio with only fifteen minutes worth of air. Hagon finally confesses he loves Cynthia. Then he realizes there is a way out. He quickly packs a stick of dynamite into a wall; there is another chamber on the other side with enough air to sustain them until they can be rescued. However, without a fuse cap, someone will have to strike the dynamite with a sledgehammer to set it off. After arguing, the two men toss a coin for the privilege. Roger "wins", but Hagon wrestles the sledgehammer away from him. After Cynthia whispers something to Roger, he tells Hagon that Cynthia wants to say goodbye to him. When Hagon goes to Cynthia, he asks her to get on with saying what she needs to say. Confused, she reveals that she said she loves Hagon. With the two safely out of the way, Roger sets off the dynamite and is blown to pieces. As Hagon carries Cynthia into the opened chamber, he tells her that he was wrong about Roger - that he was a brave man after all.

####Earthly Possessions####
An adaptation of Anne Tyler's novel of the same name about a middle aged housewife who feels her life is going nowhere, Charlotte Emory, plans to withdraw all the money from her bank account and leave her husband, a minister who has been taking her for granted for years. Then a young bank robber, Jake Sims, grabs her at gunpoint, takes her hostage and they make their getaway on a bus.

####Easy Living####
Star professional quarterback Pete Wilson thinks nothing of his future after football, not even after longtime teammate Bill "Holly" Holloran is released by the team. Pete gets advance after advance on his salary from Anne, the secretary of team owner and coach Lenahan.

One day, however, he goes secretly to see a doctor about various symptoms he has been experiencing and learns that he has a heart condition due to a childhood bout of rheumatic fever, one that could kill him if he continues playing football. He starts to tell his wife Liza, but changes his mind when she is cool to Holly, whom she refers to as a has-been after he is gone.

Liza is struggling to make her own interior design business a success, and drags Pete to a fancy party to try to land Gilbert Vollmer as a client. Gilbert knows she has no talent, but is interested in her for other reasons. So is his father, Howard. The older man is looking to replace his young girlfriend, Billy Duane, and dangles before Liza the prospect of redecorating his apartment. Knowing what he is after, Liza is willing to do whatever it takes to further her ambitions.

Meanwhile, Pete is bitterly disappointed when his friend, retiring college head coach Virgil Ryan, informs him that he cannot recommend him as his replacement because Liza is unsuitable for the duties of a coach's wife. Instead, the job is given to Pete's teammate and friend, Tim "Pappy" McCarr. Tim offers Pete the position of his assistant, but Pete turns it down.

Afraid of physical contact, Pete turns in a very poor performance and loses the next game. Lenahan cannot afford another loss if he wants to make the playoffs (and earn $100,000), so he benches Pete in favor of Tim. Tim plays well, and they win their next game.

When Pete proposes taking the assistant coaching position, Liza breaks up with him. However, when she gets dumped by Howard, she tries unsuccessfully to get Pete back. Pete is given another chance at glory when Tim is injured, but ultimately tells his teammates about his condition and walks away from the game. Though Anne has made it clear that she loves him, Pete decides to take Liza back, making it clear, however, that it will be on his terms.

####Eat Pray Love####
Elizabeth 'Liz' Gilbert had everything a modern woman is supposed to dream of having – a husband, a house, a successful career – yet like so many others, she found herself lost, confused, and searching for what she really wanted in life.

Inexplicably unhappy and restless after eight years, Liz doesn't want to be married anymore. Stephen doesn't understand why and doesn't accept the divorce easily. In the meantime she has a brief affair with David, a young actor. Newly divorced and at a crossroads, Liz steps out of her comfort zone, risking everything to change her life, embarking on a three point trip: Italy, India and Bali, a journey around the world that becomes a quest for self-discovery.

In her travels, she discovers the true pleasure of nourishment by eating in Italy, enjoying pastas and gelato for four months. A new Swedish friend introduces her to a private Italian tutor, and they celebrate Thanksgiving together right before she departs for her next stop. Liz heads to an ashram where she experiences the power of prayer in India. In addition to mass prayer sessions, honoring their guru, she is assigned the chore of scrubbing floors. 'Texas Richard' keeps her on her toes as well as supporting her. When he's ready to move on, she's reassigned to greeting and orienting new arrivals.

Feeling more centered, Liz moves on to Bali, Indonesia. A year after first meeting him, she reintroduces herself to Ketut there. He gives her various tasks. While Liz is cycling she is run off the road by Felipe, a Brazilian. She is sent to Wayan in the village to help cure a bad gash in her leg. There she meets Brazilian Armenia. She convinces her to come back to the village that night to the Beach Shack for dancing.

There, Felipe approaches Liz, apologizing for almost killing her with his jeep. Armenia then tries to set her up with young Ian, but she doesn't want another idle fling. Felipe offers to give her a lift. Hours later he returns with a hangover cure and his number. They hook up, and two weeks later Liz makes an appeal to her friends to donate to Wayan's future house, coming up with over $18,000. When Felipe proposes they spend a few days together in a remote spot, Liz panics, breaking up with him.

Deciding her time there is over, Liz gets prepared to leave and stops to say farewell to Ketut. He encourages her to embrace and, not run from love. She acknowledges his advice and runs to the dock after Felipe where she confesses her feelings to him. Finally and unexpectedly, the inner peace and balance of true love comes to her.

####Eddie and the Cruisers II: Eddie Lives!####
Long plot|date=September 2016
Satin Records rejected rock and roll band Eddie and the Cruisers' last album "A Season in Hell" twenty years earlier. Now Satin launches an "Eddie Lives!" campaign to make more money off Eddie's image as a publicity stunt, despite their belief that Eddie is dead. The record label re-releases the band's first album, which becomes an even bigger hit than its first release. The "lost recordings" from "Season in Hell" that were discovered in the previous film are released and become a major hit album.

A mystery demo tape—proved by a voice expert to feature Eddie Wilson playing on it and that may or may not have been recorded "after" Eddie “died”—is discovered by the record company—which then adds this discovery to the “Eddie Lives!” campaign in order to find anyone to resolve the matter.

Meanwhile, Eddie Wilson is actually alive. He slipped away from the car crash which supposedly caused his death and began a new life under an assumed name. He was disgusted by the music industry and decided to leave it behind. The newly generated spotlight on his supposed death angers the reclusive rocker, who now resides in Canada as construction worker Joe West.

Eddie gets involved with a struggling bar band, and his passion for music—along with his desperate anger—resurface. He decides to confront Eddie's talents once and for all. Eddie ("Joe West") challenges the bar band's talent, accepts an invitation to play and quickly dazzles the audience and the band's members. One of the band, saxophone player Hilton Overstreet's eyes widen when he first hears Eddie on guitar, but he says nothing. Eddie abruptly leaves the stage, disturbed by memories of Wendall Newton while Hilton plays a brief sax solo. Guitarist Rick Diesel pursues Eddie and badgers him about joining the band. Eddie finally begins to play again and the two circulate through Montreal's music scene, hand-picking musicians for a new band, Rock Solid.

Eddie fights against his personal demons amidst the band's rising success as Rock Solid begins to tour and win fans. Their popularity closely mirrors Eddie's former success with Eddie and the Cruisers, and he is disturbed by the similarities.

During the tour Eddie, still known to his band as Joe, begins to have more frequent flashbacks to his former life. His anger and pride peak when lead guitarist Rick Diesel calls a woman they met at gig who wants the band to audition for an upcoming music festival. Eddie's angry tirade is soothed by sax player Hilton Overstreet's cool demeanor and Rick's fast talking. Eddie caves into the band's desire to do the large public performance he so fears. He agrees under the condition that they lock themselves away in a cabin, where there are "no distractions" so they can get back to the music. The band begins to lose its momentum and Eddie's wrath finally explodes. He smashes his guitar into pieces and storms off. Hilton confronts him and says, "First you destroy your guitar, now your songs. You gonna be next"? To which Eddie replies, "They're lousy songs. They don't even burn good". Hilton then says, "It's a good thing you know 'em by heart. Be a shame to lose that many songs by Eddie Wilson." In one of the movie's defining moments, Hilton says, "I knew who you were from the moment I heard you play. The way a man plays—he's born with it; like fingerprints." He suggests that Eddie has no destiny but musician Eddie Wilson, and not Joe West, construction worker.

Satin Records has been upping the ante for anyone who can provide proof that Eddie lives. A few scenes before, an expert proved that legendary Bo Diddley had played on the mystery tapes before the death of Cruisers sax player Wendell Newton and Eddie's presumed demise in the river. In seclusion for over a month, Rick is unaware of the mounting tension around the mystery of Eddie's whereabouts. He decides to send a tape to Satin Records with a note that contains the line, "I have a band and my lead singer sure sounds a lot like Eddie Wilson."

The band auditions for the Music Festival and wins a spot in it. Eddie's doubts return. His life and true identity are about to go public. In desperation, he turns to his longtime friend and confidant Sal Amato. Sal and Eddie meet on a New Jersey beach and hash out twenty years of anger and grief. Sal demands to know where these "so-called-mystery tapes were recorded". Eddie takes Sal back to the old abandoned church where in 1963, he and former sax player Wendell Newton had a jam session with a large group of black musicians, including Bo Diddley. Eddie confesses that the whole affair, combined with what seemed to be a lukewarm reaction from the industry he had admired and aspired to join, made him feel inadequate. In one of his deeper moments, Sal tells Eddie a simple truth: it's not about setting the world on fire, it's about playing the music. Armed and primed with that sentiment in mind, Eddie returns to Montreal, ready to play the festival.

Meanwhile, someone tells the “Eddie Lives!” campaign of Wendell’s presence on the mystery tape—publicly establishing that it was record prior to Eddie’s apparent death and that the idea that Eddie Wilson is alive is still unproven. However, in Canada Eddie’s new band is about to take the stage when Rick's earlier ploy pays off. Satin Records' two executives appear and recognize Eddie. Confronted by one of the two men who once told him his music was unsuitable for release, Eddie flies into a frenzy and runs out to his car. His girlfriend, Diane Armani, runs after him and shouts that maybe they can find a bridge and do it right this time. She convinces him that although the world will discover who Joe West really is tomorrow, Eddie can still claim today for himself. Eddie takes the stage and is caught up by the thrill of performing live again and the audience's acclaim for their first song, "Running Through the Fire". Eddie introduces his bandmates one by one, then pauses. Diane nods to him and Eddie joyfully proclaims, "and me. I'm Eddie Wilson." A breathless silence greets his announcement, then the audience begins to chant "Eddie! Eddie!" Eddie grins, shouts, "Okay, let's rock 'n' roll!" The band launches into their next song as the ending credits roll.

####Edward Scissorhands####
One evening, an elderly woman tells her granddaughter the bedtime story of a young man named Edward who has scissor blades for hands.

Many years earlier, Peg Boggs, a local door-to-door Avon saleswoman, tries to sell at the decrepit Gothic mansion where Edward lives. The creation of an old inventor, Edward is an ageless humanoid. The inventor homeschooled Edward but died from a heart attack before giving Edward hands, leaving him unfinished. Peg finds Edward alone and offers to take him to her home after discovering he is virtually harmless. Peg introduces Edward to her husband Bill, their young son Kevin, and their teenage daughter Kim. Edward falls in love with Kim, despite her initial fear of him. As their neighbors are curious about the new houseguest, the Boggs throw a neighborhood barbecue welcoming him. Most of the neighbors are fascinated by Edward and befriend him, except for the eccentric religious fanatic Esmeralda and Kim's boyfriend Jim.

Edward repays the neighborhood for their kindness by trimming their hedges into topiaries, progressing to grooming dogs and later styling the hair of the neighborhood women. One of the neighbors, Joyce, offers to help Edward open a hair salon. While scouting a location, Joyce attempts to seduce him, but scares him away. Joyce lies to the neighborhood women about it, reducing their trust in him. The bank denies Edward a loan as he does not have a background or financial history.

Jealous of Kim's attraction to Edward, Jim suggests Edward pick the lock on his parents' home to obtain a van for Jim and Kim. Edward agrees, but when he picks the lock, a burglar alarm is triggered. Jim flees and Edward is arrested. The police determine that a lifetime of isolation has left Edward without any sense of reality or common sense. Edward takes responsibility for the robbery, telling Kim he did it because she asked him to. Consequently, he is shunned by the entire neighborhood except for the Boggs family.

At Christmas, Edward carves an angelic ice sculpture modeled after Kim; the ice shavings are thrown into the air and fall like snow, something that never happened before. Kim dances in the snowfall. Jim arrives suddenly, calling out to Edward, surprising him and causing him to accidentally cut Kim's hand. Jim accuses Edward of intentionally harming her, but Kim, disgusted and fed up with Jim's jealous behavior towards Edward, breaks up with him. Meanwhile, Edward flees in a rage, destroying his works and scaring Esmeralda until he is calmed by a wandering dog.

Kim's parents go out to find Edward while she stays behind in case he returns. Edward returns, finding Kim there. She asks him to hold her, but Edward hesitates, afraid of hurting her. Jim's drunken friend drives him to Kim's house and nearly runs over Kevin, but Edward pushes Kevin to safety while inadvertently cutting him. Witnesses accuse Edward of attacking Kevin; when Jim assaults him, Edward defends himself, cutting Jim's arm before fleeing to his mansion.

Kim races after Edward while Jim obtains a handgun and follows Kim. In the mansion, Jim ambushes Edward and fights with him. Edward refuses to fight back until he sees Jim slap Kim as she attempts to intervene. Enraged, Edward stabs Jim in the chest and pushes him from a window of the mansion, killing him. Kim confesses her love to Edward and kisses him before she departs, leaving Edward alone. As the neighbors gather, Kim convinces them that Jim and Edward killed each other.

The elderly woman, revealed to be Kim, finishes telling her granddaughter the story and says that she never saw Edward again, so that Edward would remember her as she was in her youth. She believes he is still alive because it would not be snowing without him. Edward is then seen carving ice sculptures of his experiences with Kim, with the bits of ice floating as snow in the wind.

####The Electric Horseman####
Norman "Sonny" Steele is a former championship rodeo rider who has sold out to a business conglomerate and is now reduced to making public appearances to sell a brand of breakfast cereal. Prior to making a Las Vegas promotional appearance to ride the $12 million champion thoroughbred race horse who responds to the name of Rising Star, Sonny discovers to his horror that the horse has been drugged and is injured.

Identifying with the plight of the horse and disillusioned with the present state of his life, Sonny decides to abscond with Rising Star and travel cross-country in order to release him in a remote canyon where herds of wild horses roam. Hallie Martin, a television reporter eager to be the first to break the Rising Star story, locates Sonny and follows him on his unusual quest through the countryside. While en route, the unlikely pair have a romance as they avoid the pursuing authorities.

####Elegy####
David Kepesh is a cultural critic and professor, in a state of 'emancipated manhood': His relationships with women are usually casual, brief and sexual in nature. Previously married, he has a son who has never forgiven him for leaving his mother. His friend, Pulitzer Prize-winning poet George O'Hearn, suggests that he "bifurcate" his life: have conversations and enjoy art with a wife, and "keep the sex just for sex". David is also in a casual 20-year relationship with Caroline, another former student.

He encounters Consuela Castillo, a beautiful and confident student who attends one of his lectures. She captures his attention like no other woman, and they begin a serious relationship. George advises him to leave her before she leaves him, but David cannot bring himself to give her up. They are a couple for a year and a half, during which he continues to sleep with Caroline; neither woman knows of the other's existence.

Over dinner, Consuela invites David to her graduation party. After some hesitation, he agrees to attend. On the day of the event, David phones Consuela and claims he is stuck in traffic and will be unavoidably delayed. In reality, he is sitting in his car, anxious about meeting Consuela's family. Heartbroken, Consuela hangs up, and they end their relationship. Shortly afterward, George suffers a stroke during a poetry conference after David introduces him, and later dies. David realizes too late that he genuinely loved Consuela, and ends his relationship with Caroline. He somewhat mends his relationship with his son, Kenny, who reveals that he is having an affair and indirectly asks David for advice.

Two years pass before Consuela and David come into contact again. On New Year's Eve, David arrives home to find a message from Consuela. She mentions that she needs to tell him something before he finds out from someone else. At his apartment, Consuela announces that she has found a lump in her breast and will need surgery. Grief-stricken, David cries and asks her why she didn't tell him sooner. Consuela then asks David to take photos of her breasts, before the doctors "ruin" them. David agrees.

In the final scene, David visits Consuela at the hospital where she is recovering from a mastectomy. Consuela says, "I will miss you". David responds, "I am here" as he climbs into the hospital bed and gently kisses her face. In a fantasy scene, the film flashes back to David and Consuela on the beach where Consuela told David she loves him.

####Elvis and Anabelle####
Teen Elvis Moreau cares for his father Charlie and runs their funeral home. Charlie has been mentally handicapped for years, so Elvis took over operating the home. However, he doesn't have his embalming license, so Charlie officially performs the services. Elvis keeps photos of the finished corpses in a scrapbook.

Nearby, Anabelle Leigh is a pageant girl, living with her mother Geneva and alcoholic stepfather Jimmy. She has bulimia and Jimmy likely sexually abuses her. Geneva put her into beauty pageants very young, hoping they could have financial independence from men.

Moments after qualifying for the nationals, Anabelle's heart stops on stage. Sent to the Moreaus' Funeral Home, Elvis begins working on her. Entranced, he kisses her and he accidentally captures it on camera. A gust of wind bursts open the window, as he shuts it, Anabelle suddenly gasps awake. Shocked, he calls the police and wakes Charlie, reminding him he was working on Anabelle.

Anabelle is returned to Geneva and Jimmy very changed. She neither has an eating disorder nor is she interested in pageants, but Geneva still pressures her to continue.

Due to having constant flashbacks to when she woke up, Anabelle goes to at the Moreaus' to learn more about that night. Elvis turns her away, fearing she will find out he does the embalming. That night, she sneaks back by bike, to lay on the table to relive that night. Elvis confronts her, thinking somebody broke in, then Charlie comes in. Elvis reminds him to say he was the one working with Anabelle. Walking her out, she asks to stay until the dawn to bike home. She obviously does not want to go, so he lets her stay.

Anabelle and Elvis slowly become friends. She begins painting the house and he joins her. One morning, Elvis shows her the headline stating she's missing. Annoyed, she claims Geneva knows she ran away. Elvis fears the police may find her there, but she doesn't.

When Anabelle notices the field next to the house is empty, Elvis says nothing can grow there. She insists he help her buy seeds, keeping it a secret, saying it's "a miracle". While Anabelle's in the field, the police come by, looking for her. She's indifferent, as she's there willingly.

Anabelle and Elvis continue to bond. One night, on a walk they end up on the bridge where his mother committed suicide. After her death, Charlie started going on very long walks. On one of them he was disabled by a hit in the head with a beer bottle. Elvis doesn't believe in miracles as a result. Anabelle kissing him triggers another flashback and she pulls away.

Police return to the house, so when Anabelle and Elvis arrive Charlie is distraught. They know she was staying there, but he said she left. Anabelle decides to visit a far off friend, and Charlie tells Elvis to go with her. Initially not wanting to leave him alone, he is convinced, and they leave.

When Elvis and Anabelle finally reach their destination, she confesses she doesn't really have a friend here. Instead, they live on the beach for a few weeks, and they become intimate.

Police report to Geneva and Jimmy, when she asks them to search the house they can't as Anabelle ran away and wasn't kidnapped. So she goes to the Moreaus' herself to snoop around. Finding Anabelle's clothes and the photo of Elvis kissing her in the mortuary trash, she calls the police.

On the drive home, Elvis and Anabelle stop at a gas station, and both see newspapers with the photo and headlines accusing Elvis of necrophilia. Recognizing them, the cashier calls the police. Before Elvis can explain it to her, he is arrested.

Anabelle is returned to Geneva and Jimmy. In jail, Elvis tells the police the truth. A few days later, she visits him in jail. They argue and Elvis tells her what really happened. Shocked, not understanding how after that Elvis doesn't believe in miracles, she leaves.

Returning home, Elvis finds Charlie dead outside. With no will to live, he decides to hang himself. Just before, a gust of wind blows the house doors open, showing him Anabelle's miracle: a sunflower field. He barely saves himself, then runs outside to many reporters.

Meanwhile, Anabelle is also setting up her own suicide. Nudging a running TV towards her bath, right before she can electrocute herself, she sees Elvis painting "I love you Anabelle" on his house on TV.

Elvis walks into the sunflower field, laying down to look up at the flowers and the sky. Anabelle comes, and they look up at the sky together.

####Embraceable You####
A getaway car, leaving the scene of a murder, strikes and injures a woman. Afterward, the driver visits her in the hospital. In New York City, after gambler Sig Kelch shoots a crooked poker player, the getaway car driven by Eddie Novoc strikes Marie Willens. Although Eddie is shaken by the big accident, Kelch insists that he keep driving. Later, a concerned Eddie visits Marie at the hospital, pretending to be a friend of her brother.

Police detective Ferris becomes interested in Marie's visitor after she tells him that she has no brother. Then Dr. Wirth discovers that Marie has an inoperable, fatal aneurism caused by the accident. Because nothing can be done for Marie, Wirth decides not to tell her that she is going to die. When she learns she is to be released from the hospital, a distraught Marie tells Ferris that she has lost her job and is locked out of her apartment. The next time Eddie visits Marie, Wirth tells him about her condition. Outside the hospital, Ferris informs him that, although he cannot prove it, he knows that Eddie was driving the car that hit Marie and orders him to take care of her until she dies. After failing to get the necessary money from Kelch, Eddie sells his car in order to rent Marie an apartment. Marie is delighted with her new home and calls her friend Libby to ask for help finding a job. Libby's agent, Matt Hethron, agrees to see Marie, but while demonstrating her specialty, a tap dance, she collapses.

Eddie pawns his watch and then blackmails Kelch for enough money to support Marie, but soon realizes that Kelch's men are after him. With Ferris' help, Eddie plots to leave town with Marie. Having evaded Kelch and his men, Marie and Eddie live an idyllic life in the country until Marie's worsening attacks leave her unable to walk. Eddie summons Wirth, who finally tells Marie the truth about her condition. Now that Marie knows she is going to die, she asks Eddie to marry her. When he refuses, even though he loves her, Marie realizes that he was the person who caused the accident. She forgives him, however, and they agree to marry. In the city, Kelch's men have been watching Eddie's friend Sammy, and when one notices Eddie and Marie's names written on a wedding cake that Sammy has made, they follow him to the couple's hideout in the country. Unknown to Kelch, however, Ferris' men have also been watching Sammy's shop, and when Kelch tries to shoot Eddie, Ferris kills him first. Now that Ferris has resolved the gambler's murder, he wants to take Eddie to jail for the hit-and-run accident. Eddie begs to be allowed to marry Marie and to make her happy for the short time she has left to live. At first Ferris is unwilling, but persuaded by Eddie's love for Marie, finally agrees. After the wedding Marie asks Eddie to make believe that the marriage "is forever." Eddie kisses her and vows, "It is forever."

####The Emperor's Candlesticks####
While visiting Vienna incognito, Russian Grand Duke Peter (Robert Young) is lured away from a masquerade ball by the beautiful Maria (Maureen O'Sullivan), only to find himself the prisoner of Polish nationalists. Peter is made to write a letter to his father, the Tsar of Russia, offering to exchange him for Maria's father, who has been sentenced to be executed.

Because their previous petitions for clemency were intercepted and never reached the Tsar, the Poles task secret agent Baron Stephan Wolensky (William Powell) to deliver the letter. Meanwhile, Colonel Pavloff (Frank Reicher), head of the Russian secret police, assigns his own agent, Countess Olga Mironova (Luise Rainer), to take to Russia documents incriminating Wolensky as an enemy agent, along with an order for his arrest.

Since he is already going to Saint Petersburg, Wolensky's friend, Prince Johann (Henry Stephenson), asks him to deliver a pair of ornate candlesticks to a princess. Each of the candlesticks has a secret compartment, so the baron secretly places the letter in one. Later, when Prince Johann amuses Countess Mironova by showing her the candlesticks' unusual feature, she puts her documents inside the other, and persuades the prince to entrust the pair to her. When Wolensky is given the news, he sets off in pursuit.

A complication arises when Mironova's maid, Mitzi Reisenbach (Bernadene Hayes), and Mitzi's lover Anton (Donald Kirke) steal her jewelry and the candlesticks. As they trace the candlesticks, first to Paris and then to London, Wolensky and Mironova admit to each other that they are on opposite sides, but this does not prevent them from falling in love.

Finally, the candlesticks are put up for auction. The countess places the winning bid, but since only cash is acceptable as payment, she does not have enough to pay for them. The baron solves the problem by offering to pool their resources, each getting one candlestick. Wolensky chooses what he believes is the one with his letter, but he picks the wrong one. He finds and reads his own death warrant. When Mironova tries to exchange candlesticks, Wolensky declines. She then offers to deliver both sets of documents, while Wolensky remains safely outside Russia. He does not trust her, but knowing the price of her failure, offers to give her back her papers once he has safely delivered Peter's letter.

Meanwhile, the Polish patriots become restless at the long, unexplained delay. Korum (Douglas Dumbrille) favors killing Peter, but Maria persuades the others to wait until they hear from Wolensky. Peter eavesdrops and is pleased. The Tsar pardons and releases Maria's father in exchange for his son.

In St. Petersburg, Pavloff arrests Miranova at her mansion. When Wolensky shows up there with her documents, she tosses them into the fireplace. Pavloff takes them both before the Tsar. The ruler of Russia graciously frees the loving couple, who decide to marry.

####The Enchanted Cottage####
The film is set during World War II. When pilot Oliver Bradford (Robert Young) is disfigured by war wounds, he hides from his family, including his mother, after his fiancée is too jarred by his disfigurement to accept it readily. He lives in bitter seclusion in the seaside New England cottage he had rented from its current owner, Mrs. Minnett, for his originally planned honeymoon, while blind concert pianist John Hillgrove who lives nearby gradually befriends him.

Laura Pennington is a shy, homely maid who has hired on as the cottage's caretaker and befriends an initially reluctant Oliver after he admires her wood-carving talents. Oliver and Laura gradually fall in love and marry, but after Oliver and Laura fear their marriage is one of mutual pity, the couple discovers that their feelings for each other have mysteriously transformed them. He appears handsome to her and she seems beautiful to him. This "transformation" is perceived only by the two lovers (and the audience). Laura believes that the cottage is "enchanted" because it was rented to honeymoon couples, and in time, the widowed Mrs. Minnett reveals the true story behind the cottage's legend.

####Enchantment####
In World War II London, a bold American servicewoman named Grizel Dane (Evelyn Keyes) pays a visit to her granduncle, aged General Sir Roland 'Rollo' Dane (David Niven), looking for a place to stay. At first reluctant to disturb his routine, Rollo soon gives in.

Interspersed flashbacks reveal the history of the Dane family. The first takes place when Rollo (Peter Miles) is a child. He and his older siblings, Selina (), are introduced to Lark Ingoldsby (Gigi Perreau) by their father (Colin Keith-Johnston). He explains that her parents have been killed in the Tay Bridge disaster and that she will be living with them as a member of the family. Selina immediately resents the newcomer.

The second flashback occurs when the children have grown up. Roland's father has died, leaving Selina (played as an adult by Jayne Meadows) in charge of Lark (Teresa Wright), whom she treats more like a servant than a member of the family. Rollo (David Niven) returns on leave from the army. When Lark asks Pelham (Philip Friend) for a dress, the first that would not be a hand-me-down from Selina, he realizes that she is growing up and invites her to a dance. She becomes acquainted with the Marchese Guido Del Laudi (Shepperd Strudwick), a business associate of Pelham's.

In the last flashback, Lark is being courted by the Marchese. Pelham unexpectedly reveals his love for her with a kiss, but her reaction makes it clear that she does not love him. Rollo surprises everyone by returning early from his latest posting on Lark's birthday. Rollo and Lark finally acknowledge their love for each other, but Selina has other plans. She has arranged for General Fitzgerald (Henry Stephenson) to appoint Rollo to his staff for a five-year mission to Afghanistan. However, Lark refuses to wait that long, living uneasily with both Selina and Pelham. When Rollo is indecisive, she goes up to her room. Rollo makes his choice; he hastens to refuse the appointment, but Selina confronts Lark, telling her that Rollo has decided to take the job. When he does not return by the next morning, Lark is convinced and leaves to marry the Marchese. Rollo returns too late, finding only a letter Lark wrote in which she says, "Selina was right."  Furious at his sister's malicious meddling, Rollo vows never to enter the house again while she lives.

In the story set in World War II, ambulance driver Grizel transports injured Pilot Officer Pax Masterson (Farley Granger) to a hospital. Later, she is surprised to find him in the general's house. It turns out he is Lark's nephew. While he waits for the old man to return home, Pax and Grizel become acquainted. As time goes on, they start falling in love. When Pax receives his orders, he asks her to marry him, but she is daunted by the uncertainties of war. As Pax is leaving, Rollo hands him a telegram addressed to him; it announces that Lark died the month before. Rollo talks to Grizel and persuades her not to throw away the chance for love as he did. She runs after Pax in the middle of a bombing raid and embraces him. While she is away, a bomb demolishes the house and kills Rollo.

####End of Summer####
Christine (Bisset) is a wealthy aristocrat in 1890s New York City. She is a spinster that unexpectedly gets another shot at love, although the opportunity is threatened by her false pride and puritanical social views.

####The End of the Affair####
Novelist Maurice Bendrix narrates the film as he begins a book with the line, "This is a diary of hate".

On a rainy London night in 1946, Maurice Bendrix has a chance meeting with Henry Miles, husband of Maurice’s former mistress, Sarah, who abruptly ended their affair two years before. Bendrix's obsession with Sarah is rekindled; he succumbs to his own jealousy and works his way back into her life.

As the story unfolds in 1946, we also see flashbacks of Bendrix with Sarah as they began their affair in 1939. Henry tells Bendrix that he believes Sarah is having an affair, so Bendrix hires the bumbling but amiable Mr. Parkis, who uses his young birthmarked son Lance to investigate. Sarah asks Bendrix to meet to talk about Henry and the cold tentativeness of their interaction is contrasted with the passion of their earlier encounters.

Bendrix learns from Parkis that Sarah has been making regular visits to a priest named Father Richard Smythe under the guise of false dentist visits and he grows increasingly jealous. Flashbacks show Bendrix expressing jealousy of Henry and asking Sarah to leave him.

Though Sarah and Bendrix express love to each other, the affair ends abruptly when a V-1 flying bomb explodes near Bendrix's building as he is out in the hallway. Bendrix falls down a staircase and awakes later, bloodied but not seriously hurt. He walks upstairs, where Sarah is shocked that he is alive. Bendrix accuses Sarah of being disappointed that he survived and she leaves, telling him "Love doesn't end, just because we don't see each other".

In 1946, Parkis obtains Sarah's diary and passes it on to Bendrix; it shows the affair from her perspective. After Bendrix is hurt by the bomb, Sarah runs downstairs and finds him still and not breathing. After trying to revive him, she runs back upstairs and begins to pray for Bendrix's life. Just as she says to God that she will stop seeing Bendrix if he is brought back, Bendrix comes into the room.

Now knowing why Sarah ended the affair, Bendrix follows Sarah and begs her to reconsider. Sarah tells Bendrix that she has felt dead without him and can no longer keep her "promise" to God. Henry, who has figured out that it is Bendrix who was Sarah's lover, desperately asks Sarah not to leave him but, with more persuasion from Bendrix, Sarah agrees to go away with him for a weekend. Henry tracks the couple down to tell them that Sarah has a terminal illness.

Bendrix stays with Henry and Sarah over her final days. At her funeral, Parkis tells Bendrix that his son's birthmark went away after Sarah kissed it during a chance encounter.  At Henry and Sarah's house, Bendrix completes his book and it is revealed that his diary of hate is directed toward God. While Sarah doesn't need to see God to love Him, Bendrix prays God will leave him alone, thereby finally acknowledging His existence.

####Endless####
Riley (Alexandra Shipp) and Chris (Nicholas Hamilton) are two high school graduates madly in love, but a tragic car accident separates them. She blames herself for the untimely death of her boyfriend while he remains stuck in limbo. Miraculously, the two find a way to reconnect.

####Endless Love####
In suburban Chicago, Jade Butterfield and David Axelrod fall in love after being introduced by Jade's older brother Keith. The Butterfields' bohemian lifestyle, for which they're well known in their community, allows Jade and David to develop an all-consuming and passionate relationship, including allowing them to have sex in Jade's room. Where her family is open, David's home life is dull; his parents are wealthy liberal political activists who have little interest in his life.

One night, Jade's mother Ann sneaks downstairs, catching Jade and David making love by the fireplace. She starts living vicariously through them but her husband, Hugh, watches them with increasing unease. Jade's nightly trysts begin to negatively impact her grades and her ability to sleep. One night, she tries to steal a prescription sleeping pill from her father but he catches her. As a last straw, Hugh demands that David stop seeing Jade until the end of the school term. Although initially causing a scene, Ann gently coaxes David to agree, telling him not to let Hugh "do something he'll regret".

Back at school, one of David's friends, Billy, tells him that when he was eight, he tried to burn a pile of newspapers, got scared and put the fire out, and his parents thought he was a hero for saving the house from burning. Inspired by this grim story, David starts a fire on the Butterfields' front porch after their late-night party and walks away. Unfortunately, by the time he returns, the flame has spread too far under the high wind. David immediately evacuates the Butterfields from the burning house before he is subsequently apprehended.

Following the trial, David is convicted of second-degree arson, sentenced to five years' probation, committed into a mental hospital for evaluation and forbidden to go anywhere near Jade or her family again. He continues to write her daily, but the letters aren't sent because of the no-contact order. His parents pull strings to have him released early from the mental hospital, much to Hugh's chagrin. Meanwhile, David receives his many letters upon his exit, and after realizing why Jade never wrote back, he decides to pursue her although he knows it is a violation of his parole.

After the loss of their home, the Butterfields moved from Chicago to Manhattan where Ann and Hugh file for divorce. In Manhattan, Ann tries to seduce David but he refuses, leaving her confused. When she isn't looking, he thumbs through her address book, finding out where Jade is and discovers that she now attends the University of Vermont. Intent on catching a bus to Vermont, David sees Hugh on the street. He starts chasing him, and Hugh is hit by a car and killed. Hugh's fiancée Ingrid arrives to the scene just in time to see David leaving. He comes close to boarding the bus to Vermont, but is overcome with grief and returns to Ann's apartment and consoles her.

Later, Jade goes to David's room to say goodbye but he pulls her back as she tries to leave, throwing her on the bed and holding her down until she admits she loves him. Keith goes to David's to find them together again and tells Jade that David is at fault for their father's death. She refuses to believe it at first but when he confirms that David was actually at the scene, she becomes horrified and hides behind Keith. Trying to explain, David shoves Keith out of the way in a desperate bid to get to her. Keith holds him off until the police arrive and arrest David for brawling, disturbing the peace and violating his parole.

David is sentenced to five years in a state prison and despairs that he will never see Jade again. At a lakeside, Jade informs her mother that nobody will ever love her like David does, and Ann speaks her understanding and approval. From behind bars, David sees Jade approach him through his barred cell window to comfort him.

####Endless Love####
17-year-old Jade Butterfield graduates from high school with an impressive college scholarship but few friends, focusing on her studies rather than a social life. David, another senior, has had a crush on her for years but never acted on it.

Jade asks her parents, Hugh and Anne, for a graduation party as her gift, which is very unlike her. She invites the entire class, including David. At first, the party consists of only Mr. and Mrs. Butterfield's friends. However, David comes and gets everyone to go to Jade's by sabotaging another.

The night is full of music, laughter and dancing. Jade and David are caught kissing in a closet during a power outage when Jade's father, Hugh, toasts Jade. They exit the closet together, seen by all. Hugh disapproves of David, feeling he will adversely affect his daughter's medical-school internship.

David tries to please Hugh by fixing a car which belonged to Jade's late brother Chris; ironically, Hugh is the only one "not" delighted by this gesture. Late that night, Jade sneaks David into the study where - at her urging - they make love. They strive to make the most of the ten days she has left at home. Ultimately, Jade opts to decline the internship to spend the summer with David, infuriating Hugh. She later invites David to accompany the family to their lake house; he is welcomed warmly by everybody but Hugh, who his wife Anne begs to give him a chance. She points out that Jade seems truly happy for the first time in ages.

One night, David sees Hugh cheating on Anne with another woman; and Hugh intimidates him into keeping quiet about it. David and Jade, along with Jade's brother Keith and his girlfriend Sabine, sneak into a local zoo after-hours for a night of fun. Jenny, David's jealous ex, calls the police; when they arrive, David sacrifices himself so the others can escape. Hugh bails David out, on the condition he ends it with Jade and she takes the internship as planned.

Jade escapes to find David at a restaurant where he's eating with his friend Mace, who secretly invited Jenny. Jade suddenly turns up, assumes the worst and upset, drives off and gets into an accident. At the hospital, Hugh gives Harry a restraining order to keep David away from Jade...who has suffered only minor injuries. Upon leaving the hospital, she tries to contact David - having realized he was never unfaithful to her and never would be. But his dad won't allow it because of the restraining order. Over the next few months, David and Jade each try to see other people; but both are unhappy.

David runs into Anne at a bookstore, and she tells him she admires his and Jade's love. She arranges for David to meet Jade at the airport when she comes home for the holidays. They reaffirm their love and Jade plans to go off with David that night, while Anne confronts Hugh about his obsession with destroying David's life; including Hugh never sending her college recommendation letter for him.

At home, Hugh reams Keith and Sabine for listening to records from Chris's collection. Keith seconds his mother's sentiments regarding what losing Chris has done to Hugh. Then Keith announces he is moving in with Sabine, and Anne opts to join them. Hugh then finds Jade preparing to leave with David; who is waiting outside. He charges in a rage, knocking over a lit candle on the way and furiously attacking David. Jade rushes to his defense, proclaiming that it was Hugh, not David; who tore the family apart.

The defeated Hugh goes back inside, discovering the fire started in Chris's room. Jade and David see the house in flames, so he rushes back in to save Hugh, who is struggling to gather up Chris' possessions. When David falls unconscious, Hugh drops everything and helps him to safety instead. Outside, they put aside their differences while waiting for medical help.

Anne and Hugh amicably separate, but remain determined to rediscover their love, inspired by Jade and David; who are flying out to California, having been selected as maid of honor and best man at Sabine and Keith's wedding. Both couples celebrate on the beach, where they camp. Sharing David's bedroll, Jade fondly recalls how her first love - the relationship she shares with him - was everything all at once, the kind of undying love worth fighting to keep.

####Enemies of Women####
As described in a film magazine review, Alicia, an adventuress, has occasion to befriend a Russian prince with whom she flees to France. They are happily living together when the Prince sees her with her young son and, knowing nothing of his existence, mistakes him for a youthful lover and quits her. He and several friends form a club known as the "Enemies of Women" and plan to have nothing more to do with them. However, circumstances finally  reunite Alicia and the prince and they find happiness together.

####Enemies, A Love Story####
In 1949, guilt-ridden Holocaust survivor Herman Broder lives in New York with his wife, Yadwiga. During the war, Yadwiga—the Broders' gentile servant—saved Herman's life by hiding him in a hayloft. Believing his wife, Tamara, to have perished in a concentration camp, Herman took Yadwiga with him as his wife when he emigrated to the United States. He tells her that he works as a traveling book-salesman; however, in reality, he is a ghost writer for the avaricious Rabbi Lembeck. He also is having an affair with Masha, whose own experiences in a concentration camp have left her embittered about God and Judaism; she emigrated to New York with her mother and married Leon, an older man from whom she is estranged. Masha wants them to divorce their respective spouses and get married, but he continually puts her off.

After answering an ad in the newspaper, Herman is shocked to learn that Tamara not only survived the Holocaust, but has come to New York to be with him. Herman confesses to her both his current marriage and affair. Accepting that he has moved on from her emotionally, Tamara agrees not to pursue her claim as his wife and befriends him. In short order, both Masha and Yadwiga announce each is pregnant. Masha procures a divorce from Leon, who warns Herman that Masha is manipulative. After she swears on her own life that Leon is lying about her, Masha and Herman find a Rabbi to perform the ceremony without asking questions. Herman now has three wives.

Masha experiences internal bleeding, and the attending physician tells Herman that she was never pregnant. Rabbi Lembeck, having met Masha, invites the couple to a party. There, the wealthy Nathan Pescheles - who happened to meet all three wives by chance - reveals Herman's polygamy to the assembled crowd. Feeling angry and betrayed, Masha leaves Herman. He becomes more religious to help Yadwiga convert to Judaism. Tamara helps him by getting him a job with a rabbi.

A few weeks later, Masha calls Herman, hoping to convince him to bolt to Florida or California with her. Admitting to Tamara that Masha's pull on him is too great but promising to support his unborn child, Herman leaves Yadwiga for good. But before they can leave, Masha's mother dies. Unable to pay for the funeral but realizing she can't bear the thought of not being buried next to her mother, Masha asks Herman to commit suicide with her. Herman agrees, but when they realize neither has ever been completely truthful with the other, he leaves. Masha takes a lethal overdose of sleeping pills.

Rabbi Lembeck pays for Masha and her mother's funeral and takes care of the hospital fees for Yadwiga. Tamara and Yadwiga raise the child, named Masha, together. Letters occasionally arrive containing only money to help care for the child.

####The English Patient####
An interwar vintage British biplane, flying across a sea of desert, is shot down by German gunners. The badly burned pilot is pulled from the wreckage and rescued by a group of Bedouin.

Hana, a French-Canadian combat nurse of the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps during WWII, learns from a wounded soldier that her boyfriend has been killed in action.

In October 1944 Italy, Hana is caring for a dying, scarred-from-burns English-accented patient who says he cannot remember his name. His only possession is a copy of Herodotus' "Histories", with personal notes, pictures, and mementos stored inside. When a nurse friend is killed in front of her, Hana decides she is a curse to those who love her. She gains permission to settle in a bombed-out monastery with her patient, as he suffers extra during relocations of her hospital unit.

They are soon joined by Lt. Kip, a Sikh sapper in the British Indian Army posted with Sgt. Hardy to clear German mines and booby traps. David Caravaggio, a Canadian Intelligence Corps operative who was tortured during a German interrogation, also arrives at the monastery. Caravaggio questions the patient, who gradually reveals his past through a series of flashbacks. Over the days of the patient relating his story, Hana and Kip begin a shy love affair.

The patient reveals that in the late 1930s he was exploring a region of the Sahara. He is, in fact, Hungarian cartographer László Almásy, who was part of a Royal Geographical Society archeological and surveying expedition with a group including his good friend, Englishman Peter Madox, and British couple Geoffrey and Katharine Clifton, who own a plane and contribute with aerial surveys.

Almásy learns information from a Bedouin which helps the group discover the Cave of Swimmers, an ancient site of cave paintings. The group begins to document their find, during which time Almásy and Katharine fall in love. He writes about her in notes folded into his book, which Katharine discovers when Almásy awkwardly accepts her offer of two watercolours she has painted of the cave imagery and asks her to paste them into the book.

The two begin an affair on their return to Cairo, while the group arranges for more detailed archaeological surveys of the cave and the surrounding area. Almásy buys her a silver thimble as a gift. Some months later, Katharine abruptly ends their affair from fear Geoffrey will discover it. Shortly afterward the archaeological projects are halted due to the onset of the war. Madox leaves his Tiger Moth aeroplane at Kufra Oasis before his intended return to Britain.

Caravaggio reveals that he has been seeking revenge for his injuries, and has killed the German interrogator who cut off his thumbs and the spy who identified him, but has been searching for the man who provided maps to the Germans, allowing them to infiltrate Cairo. He suspects the patient is Almásy, asking "Did you kill the Cliftons?", to which Almásy concedes "Maybe... I did".

Reminiscing for Caravaggio, with Hana listening in from an adjoining room, Almásy recalls packing camp in 1941 when Geoffrey arrives overhead. He dives straight for Almásy, who jumps out of the way. Scrambling over to the wreckage, he finds Geoffrey dead at the controls and Katharine badly injured in the front seat. She tells him Geoffrey knew, and was attempting a double murder-suicide. Almásy carries her to the Cave of Swimmers. He notices she is wearing a chain bearing his gift, and she declares she has always loved him.

Leaving her in the cave with provisions and his book, Almásy walks three days cross-desert. Arriving at British-held El Tag, he explains the desperate situation and asks for help, but a young officer detains Almásy on suspicion of being a spy. Transported away by train, Almásy escapes and eventually comes into contact with a German army unit. They take him to the Kufra Oasis, where Madox has hidden his plane. Exchanging maps for fuel, Almásy takes to the air and finally reaches the cave, where he confirms that Katharine has died. He carries her body to the plane, and he is burned when shot down, connecting to the start of the film. After hearing the story, Caravaggio gives up his quest for revenge.

Kip is reposted once he has cleared the area of explosives; he and Hana agree they will meet again. Later, pushing several vials of morphine toward Hana, Almásy tells her he has had enough. Though visibly upset, she grants his wish and administers a lethal dose. As he drifts to sleep, she reads him Katharine's final letter, written to Almásy while she was alone in the cave. The next morning Caravaggio returns with a friend, and they get a lift to Florence. Hana holds Almásy's book tightly as they ride away.

####Esther and the King####
In Persia in the 5th century BC, a Jewish woman named Esther comes to the attention of the recently widowed King Ahasuerus. The king has been trying to defeat the campaign of hatred against the Jews by his evil minister Haman. Before the king pairs with Esther to defeat Haman, there are several intervening adventures and an attractive other woman who competes for attention.

####Eternal Love####
In 1806 in the village of Pontresina, Switzerland, a mountain man named Marcus (John Barrymore) is in love with Ciglia (Camilla Horn), a young village woman who has been rejecting the advances of Lorenz (Victor Varconi). The mischievous Pia (Mona Rico) throws herself at Marcus, but she is also rejected. Marcus and Ciglia profess their love, while the jealous and vindictive Pia looks on.

Following the end of the French Army occupation, the people of Pontresina celebrate their liberation with a boisterous masked dance. At the party Ciglia becomes frightened of a drunken Marcus and she asks to be taken home. Marcus goes home confused. When Pia boldly attempts to seduce Marcus, he accepts her advances. The next day Ciglia receives permission from her uncle Tass (Hobart Bosworth) to marry Marcus. Pia and her mother approach Tass, and then confront Marcus. With Ciglia overhearing, they demand that Marcus marry Pia, who plays the cowering innocent. Ciglia leaves Marcus, and Marcus and Pia get married. Lorenz soon takes advantage of Ciglia and eventually they also get married.

During a heavy snowstorm, Pia is worried about Marcus and tries to form a rescue party to find him. With no one willing to join, she turns to Lorenz and Ciglia. Ciglia overreacts to the news, making Lorenz suspicious about her affections. Ciglia soon discovers Marcus safely arriving in the village. Consumed in jealously and sorrow, Lorenz confronts Marcus, urging him to leave the village, even offering him money, but Marcus refuses.

Later in the mountains, Lorenz ambushes Marcus and the two exchange gunfire. Marcus returns to the village, followed by the accusing and dying Lorenz. The villagers turn against Marcus despite Ciglia's cries of his innocence. Pia falsely accuses Ciglia of putting Marcus up to the murder of Lorenz. Soon the villagers turn into a mob and pursue Marcus and Ciglia into the mountains. With no other recourse, Marcus and Ciglia walk hand in hand into the path of an avalanche.

####Ever After####
The Brothers Grimm meet with the Grand Dame, who expresses disappointment in their version of Cinderella. She produces a jeweled slipper and recounts Cinderella’s actual story.

In 16th century France, eight-year-old Danielle is the daughter of widowed merchant Auguste de Barbarac. Auguste returns home with his new wife, Baroness Rodmilla De Ghent, and her two daughters from her previous marriage, Marguerite and Jacqueline. A fortnight later, Auguste dies of a heart attack.

Ten years later, Auguste’s estate is in debt due to Rodmilla’s overspending, while Danielle has been forced to become a servant in her own home. One morning, Danielle encounters Prince Henry as he is attempting to flee in order to avoid an arranged marriage to Princess Gabriella of Spain. He gives Danielle some gold coins to keep their interlude secret and rides away. He is eventually caught by the Royal Guard after stopping Romani bandits from robbing Leonardo da Vinci, whom King Francis has invited to the French court.

Danielle, disguised as a noblewoman, takes the gold coins to the palace to buy back a family servant sold by Rodmilla. Henry witnesses Danielle arguing with the jailer and, impressed by her passion, orders the servant released. Captivated by her intelligence, Henry asks for her name. Danielle hastily lies and gives her mother’s name: Countess Nicole de Lancret. Later that night, King Francis strikes a deal with Henry: he will hold a masquerade ball at which Henry will announce his engagement to the woman of his choosing, or else marry Princess Gabriella. Hearing this news, Rodmilla accelerates her efforts at getting Henry to notice Marguerite, while being increasingly neglectful to Jacqueline. Meanwhile, Danielle begins secretly spending time with Henry.

Marguerite plans to wear an exquisite gown and jeweled slippers, which had been left to Danielle by her mother, for the ball; leading to Danielle attacking Marguerite for insulting her mother's memory. Marguerite retaliates by destroying the copy of "Utopia" that Auguste had given Danielle. After Rodmilla has Danielle whipped, Jacqueline treats her wounds, expressing sympathy for Danielle and criticizing Marguerite for her cruelty.

Danielle tries to tell Henry the truth, but cannot bring herself to do so when he tells her she has changed him as a man, inspiring him to build a university. Rodmilla deduces that Henry has been romancing Danielle and tells Queen Marie that she is engaged. She confronts Danielle about her deception and the whereabouts of her mother’s dress and slippers, which have vanished, then locks her in the pantry. Da Vinci helps Danielle escape and the other servants, who are loyal to Danielle, reveal they had hidden the dress and slippers. Danielle arrives at the ball determined to tell Henry the truth, but Rodmilla exposes her before she can. Furious at her dishonesty, Henry rejects her. Danielle tearfully runs away, leaving a jeweled slipper behind. Da Vinci reproaches Henry for his callousness towards Danielle and leaves him the slipper.

Henry agrees to marry Princess Gabriella, but calls it off when he realizes she too loves someone else. Jacqueline tells Henry that Rodmilla sold Danielle to the lecherous Pierre Le Pieu. Henry rides off to rescue her, only to find that she has freed herself. Henry apologizes, professes his love for her and proposes marriage by fitting the slipper onto her foot; Danielle happily accepts.

Rodmilla is summoned before the royal court and confronted for lying to the Queen about Danielle; she is stripped of her title and threatened with exile unless someone speaks for her. Danielle, now a princess, appears and instead asks that Rodmilla be shown the same “kindness” her stepmother had shown her. Rodmilla and Marguerite are reduced to servants in the palace laundry; Jacqueline, for her kindness to Danielle, is spared from punishment. Leonardo gifts the royal newlyweds with a portrait of Danielle.

The Grande Dame tells the Brothers Grimm that her great-great grandmother's portrait hung in Henry's university until the French Revolution. She concludes by telling them while Danielle and Henry did live happily ever after, the point is that they lived.

####Every Day####
"A" is a traveling spirit who experiences every day in the body of a different teenager.

A wakes up in the body of Justin, the neglectful boyfriend of Rhiannon. At school, Rhiannon approaches A as Justin, convincing A to skip school with her. As the day goes on, A falls in love with Rhiannon, as she confides her troubled home life following her father's mental breakdown, almost resulting in her family losing their home. At the end of their day together, A alludes to the fact that tomorrow will be different but Rhiannon responds that tomorrow is tomorrow and that today should end on "a nice note". Rhiannon feels a rekindled love for Justin, seemingly a more caring and different person.

The next day, Rhiannon finds Justin has reverted to his old, careless self and does not remember the previous day. Meanwhile, A wakes up in the body of Amy and masquerades as an exchange student to be close to Rhiannon.

Waking up as Nathan, A attends a party and finds Rhiannon. Dancing together, A and Rhiannon bond, and A tells Rhiannon she deserves better than Justin before Justin chases A off. A few days later, A texts Rhiannon to meet, and she does, assuming she is meeting Nathan. not a typo|A arrives as Megan, explaining that A was Justin, Amy, and Nathan, and has fallen in love with her. Initially disdainful, Rhiannon agrees to meet with A the next day.

Now in the body of James, A reveals that A has shifted bodies every day since infancy and shows her the private Instagram account with pictures taken in every body, through which Rhiannon can communicate with A. Meeting with Nathan, who believes he was possessed by the devil, Rhiannon realizes A is real. A, in the body of transgender teen Vic, convinces Rhiannon to give A a chance, suggesting that it is the soul that matters, not the body. After some thought, Rhiannon agrees to continue meeting A.

Surprised to awaken in the body of Rhiannon herself, A sees it as an opportunity to get to know Rhiannon better. A promises to be respectful of Rhiannon's privacy and her life, not breaking up with Justin or looking at Rhiannon's naked body. Over the course of the day, A bonds with Rhiannon's mother, as well as her sister and father.

The following day, having finally found the courage, Rhiannon breaks up with Justin. She immediately calls A for a weekend trip at her uncle's cabin. A, in the body of Xavier, talks about the day spent in Rhiannon's body. Rhiannon tells A that leaving a mark could be a good thing so people will know A exists, but A feels obligated to leave people's memories unchanged.

At the end of the day, A kisses Rhiannon goodbye and plans to return the next day but does not, forcing Rhiannon to call her mother to pick her up. A later explains that day's body was undergoing a lung transplant. Rhiannon and A gradually become intimate and promise they will figure out how to maintain their relationship.

A wakes in the body of the suicidal Kelsea, and Rhiannon convinces A to attempt to hold onto Kelsea's body for more than twenty-four hours, to keep her alive until Kelsea's father can be alerted to her struggles. A is successful, and Rhiannon convinces A to stay in the body of her classmate, Alexander, so they can remain together. Though this seems to work for a short time, A is unwilling to take over somebody else's life permanently.

Alone with Rhiannon at Alexander's house, A tells her that they cannot realistically be together forever, that Alexander himself is perfect for Rhiannon, and that A would be keeping her from that someone. Realizing that this is their last night together, Rhiannon and A dance and talk; as they wait for midnight, A tells her that "this is the nice note"Sndalluding to Rhiannon's comment to Justin about ending their day together on "a nice note".

The next day, A awakens in another body and drives to New York while Rhiannon meets Alexander at school.

####Everything Before Us####
In the near future, the Department of Emotional Integrity (D.E.I.) issues relationship scores that affect the standings of everyone in society.

Ben is denied a job at Origin, a design company, due to a low relationship score. His ex-girlfriend, Sara, meanwhile, secures a business loan for a new cafe due to her high relationship score. Ben's friend, Henry, convinces Ben to make an appointment at the D.E.I. with Sara to boost his score. At the D.E.I., Ben and Sara clash due to their conflicting recounts of their past relationship. However, they reconcile and each sign off on 50-50 responsibility. This boosts Ben's score to land the job as a designer at Origin. Meanwhile, Seth and Haley are heading to different colleges in California, with Haley going to San Francisco and Seth staying in Los Angeles. They register their long-distance relationship with the recurring D.E.I. agent, Randall.

At his new job, Ben begins a relationship with a co-worker, Anna. When Ben visits Sara's cafe's soft opening, Ben offers to paint a mural to fill an empty spot on the wall. While working on the mural late at night, Ben and Sara have a few drinks to take a break. Ben kisses Sara, who seems receptive at first, but quickly realizes the mistake and runs out. When Anna discovers the kiss, she threatens to terminate her relationship with Ben.

Though Seth constantly visits Haley at her college, their relationship begins to fall apart starting when she ditches Seth to go out with her friends. Seth also applies to transfer to the same college as Haley without consulting her, which makes her unhappy as she feels he is not allowing her to be independent and that he is holding her back from a true college experience. Later on, Seth catches her at a party thrown by a fraternity known for inappropriate sexual relationships. Their relationship worsens even further when Seth finds that Haley has been keeping potential plans to study abroad in London from him.

Two men from the D.E.I. visit Sara's cafe to investigate a fraudulent relationship with her friend Jeremy, which she used to boost her relationship score after her breakup with Ben. Sara loses her cafe as the investigation reveals the fraud and drastically lowers her relationship score. Ben also loses his job at Origin due to a bad score after breaking up with Anna.

As Seth is on his way to the airport to visit Haley, Haley breaks up with him over the phone due to his pushiness and not involving her in his decisions. Seth and Ben both visit the D.E.I. Ben urges Seth to end his relationship in a way to make his love forever. Seth terminates his relationship with Haley, unexpectedly taking 100% of the fault for the relationship termination.

Ben is audited and recorded to aid the investigation into Sara's fraudulent relationship. Randall then goes against policy and gives Sara a recording of Ben's testimony that prevented further damage to her relationship score. She listens to his honest testimony of love for her and rebuttal of the D.E.I., arguing that love and relationships are not supposed to be easy, despite the D.E.I.'s mission to make the process smooth and simple. When Sara visits what was her cafe, she finds Ben finishing the mural. Ben and Sara start over on the mural, painting a pair of sails. Seth and Haley are shown starting their new lives independent from each other, with Haley starting school in London and Seth moving to San Francisco.

In a mid-credits scene, Henry and his wife, Sandy, take out a loan for a bakery, presumably on behalf of Sara.

####The Exception####
During World War II, Wehrmacht Captain Stefan Brandt is assigned to take command of the personal bodyguard of deposed German Emperor Wilhelm II at his estate of Huis Doorn, near Utrecht, Netherlands. The Nazi authorities are concerned that an Allied spy may be planning to assassinate the former Kaiser. While Wilhelm is an elderly man with no power, the SS are aware that he still has great symbolic importance to the German people.

Despite the Kaiser's adjutant, Colonel Sigurd von Ilsemann, giving Brandt strict orders not to interfere with the female servants, Brandt is quickly drawn into a lustful act but this soon develops into a passionate affair with Mieke de Jong (one of the maids) who reciprocates his advances, she reveals to Brandt that she is Jewish and after a pause, he replies, "I'm not," telling her not to share her secret with anyone else, the clear implication is that he is infatuated with her and she him.

Gestapo Inspector Dietrich informs Brandt that the British Secret Service has an agent with a radio hidden somewhere in a nearby village and orders Brandt to identify the second agent known to be inside the ex-Kaiser's household.

Prior to a visit from SS Commander Heinrich Himmler, Brandt notices a smell of gun oil from Mieke's room. He follows Mieke when she visits the village pastor andsndwatching outside a windowsndhears her tell the pastor that she is prepared to assassinate Himmler as revenge for the SS having murdered her father and husband. The pastor responds that assassinating Himmler is not their mission.

The SS pinpoints the pastor’s radio transmissions. They arrest and savagely torture him, demanding the name of the other spy. Shortly afterward, Wilhelm's ambitious wife Hermine, jealous of Wilhelm's fondness for Mieke, tells him of Brandt and Mieke's affair. She expects her husband to dismiss Mieke and have Brandt court-martialed, but the ex-Kaiser angrily responds that even though he no longer rules Germany, he will rule his own house. In private, he reveals to the lovers that he fathered illegitimate children before and after marrying his first wife, Empress Augusta Victoria. Saying he will not be a hypocrite, the Kaiser orders the lovers to go about their duties, but to be more discreet.

During a planned house search before Himmler's arrival, Brandt himself searches Mieke's room to protect her cover. Brandt learns as Himmler is arriving that the tortured pastor will soon reveal Mieke's identity and he urges her to flee. She refuses, insisting that she has a mission.

Himmler extends to Wilhelm an invitation from Adolf Hitler to return to his former throne in Berlin. He then meets with Brandt and Dietrich, informing them that the invitation is a bluff, intended to draw out and execute anti-Nazi monarchists in the German resistance. Hermine is overjoyed at the thought of finally becoming Empress of Germany once again but Wilhelm, troubled by Himmler's boasts about the euthanasia of disabled children, remains unsuresndeven when Colonel von Ilsemann speaks to him of how Wilhelm can become "a restraining influence."

When Brandt asks von Ilsemann whether an officer can serve something other than his country, the Colonel replies, "First you must decide what is your country and if it even still exists." Brandt pauses, then tells von Ilsemann of Himmler's plans for the Kaiser's supporters.

Mieke completes her mission by delivering to Wilhelm a message from Winston Churchill, offering the Kaiser political asylum in the United Kingdom and the throne of a defeated Germany after the war. Wilhelm refuses, having decided that he is finally at peace with the loss of his throne.

As the Gestapo closes in on Mieke, Brandt devises an escape plan. Wilhelm, Mieke, and Brandt escape in a van as the Kaiser pretends to have a heart attack. In the process, Mieke almost takes a suicide pill, Brandt saves her life and capture by killing Dietrich and another SS officer. Mieke asks Brandt to flee with her, fearing he will be executed for the murders. Brandt insists that he has a duty to Germany and has a good alibi. As Mieke departs, Brandt asks Mieke to marry him. She tells Brandt yes and to find her after the war, then she flees into the woods.

Some time later, Brandt is working at a desk in Berlin. He is delivered a package, which contains a book of Friedrich Nietzsche's writings that Mieke had once shown him. Inside is written a London address. In London, Mieke is seated on a park bench when she is informed that Churchill is ready to see her. Rising, Mieke puts her hand on her belly, revealing that she is pregnant. In Doorn, Colonel von Ilsemann informs Wilhelm that Brandt has called from Berlin with wonderful news. Realising this means Mieke has successfully escaped to Britain, Wilhelm is overjoyed.

####Executive Suite####
While in New York City to meet with investment bankers, 56-year-old Avery Bullard, president and driving force of the Tredway Corporation, a major furniture manufacturing company in the town of Millburgh, Pennsylvania, drops dead in the street. As he collapses, he drops his wallet. A bystander picks it up, steals the cash, and shoves the wallet into a wastebasket. As a result, there is no way to immediately identify the body.



George Caswell, a member of the Tredway board of directors and one of the investment bankers with whom Bullard had just met, sees what he believes is Bullard's body in the street below their offices. He tells his broker to make a short sale of as much Tredway stock as he can before the end of trading that Friday afternoon. Caswell plans to make an easy profit and cover the sale by buying Tredway stock at "a 10-point discount" on Monday, when news of Bullard's death will push the stock price down. Caswell begins to doubt that it was Bullard who died, but when he reads in a newspaper that the man had the initials "A.B." on his clothes and cufflinks, he calls the police to tip them off to the identity of the deceased.

Bullard had never named his successor nor had he appointed an executive vice-president since the previous one died. Over the next 28 hours, Tredway's executives vie for the position of president.

Company controller Loren Shaw arranges Bullard's funeral and coordinates the company's public reaction. In so doing, he undercuts treasurer Frederick Alderson, one of Bullard's close friends, and this effectively diminishes Alderson in his own eyes so that he does not seek the presidency. Shaw also releases the upcoming quarterly report so that the news of big profits can counter the effect of Bullard's death and perhaps even raise the stock price when the market opens. Ambitious, but narrowly focused, Shaw is concerned more with short-term accounting gains and satisfying the stockholders than the quality of the company's actual products and long-term growth.

He gains the proxy of Julia Tredway, the daughter of the company's founder, who is a major shareholder and board member. She had been considering selling her stock after realizing the futility of her difficult romantic relationship with and love for Bullard after many years. She was finally heartbroken after coming second behind the company for both her father and Bullard.

Shaw buys Caswell's vote in exchange for allowing Caswell to purchase 4,000 shares of company stock at the Friday closing price to cover his unscrupulous short sale. If Caswell does not get those shares, he will be in serious financial trouble. Meanwhile, Walt Dudley, the back-slapping Vice President of Sales, is having an affair with his secretary, Eva Bardeman, which Shaw uses to blackmail him.

Vice President of Manufacturing Jesse Grimm decides to retire instead of seeking the top job. But while he is no fan of Shaw's, he has serious reservations about the relative youth of the only other potential contender, Don Walling, the idealistic Vice President for Design and Development.

All these machinations result in Shaw having enough votes to get the job even before the board meets. Treasurer Alderson and Walling, however, are determined to thwart Shaw. Walling convinces Alderson to back him. Walling is a strong believer in developing new, higher quality products and more efficient manufacturing methods, although his wife, Mary, is against his giving up his dream of being a full-time designer.

At an emergency board meeting on Saturday evening, the machinations, bargaining, and maneuvering culminate in Walling's enthusiasm, vision, and his stirring boardroom speech eventually swaying Grimm, Dudley and Julia Tredway to his side. He is elected unanimously after Shaw accepts his defeat. Shaw then tears up a letter endorsing Caswell's share purchase, much to Caswell's dismay. Walling and his wife embrace.

####The Exile####
In 1660, Charles Stuart (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.), deposed as king of England by Oliver Cromwell and the Roundheads, is in exile in the Netherlands with a few loyalists, awaiting the right opportunity to return. Whilst bartering in a local marketplace, he meets Katie (Rita Corday), a Dutch farm owner and flower seller.

When unrest in England presents both opportunity and danger, Charles's chief advisor, Sir Edward Hyde (Nigel Bruce), recommends he hide somewhere, neither too close for Roundhead assassins to find him, nor too far for news to reach him of further developments. Charles, without revealing his royal identity, persuades Katie to take him on as a farm hand. The two soon fall in love.

During his stay, Charles encounters an actor named Dick Pinner (Robert Coote) who is posing as him; the imposter stays at Katie's inn. Shortly afterward, there arrives another guest, Countess Anabella de Courteuil (María Montez), an old lover of Charles's and an emissary from King Louis of France. She presents Charles with a gift from Louis, a music box. Knowing that Katie owes 3000 guilders to her cousin, Jan (Otto Waldis), Charles has the music box sold and pays off the debt without her knowledge. Katie becomes jealous of Anbella and dismisses Charles. However, when she learns of his generosity from a gracious, departing Anbella, she takes him back.

Meanwhile, English Colonel Ingram (Henry Daniell) has been given the mission of assassinating the king. He tracks Charles to his hiding place. Charles escapes from Ingram's men, but they follow Katie and trap him in a windmill. After a sword fight, he kills Ingram, and his followers come to the rescue. Sir Edward informs him that Parliament has offered him back his throne. To take the crown, however, Charles has to leave Katie; Charles resists the idea, but Sir Edward reminds him of his duty, and Katie of what he can do for his people, and the two star-crossed lovers sadly part.

The film's original ending, preferred by Ophüls, was a bit longer than the one shown in the United States. The shorter version ends with Charles leaving for England, while the longer has a further scene in which two courtiers casually discuss a plaque that is erected to his stay.

####Eye for Eye####
As described in a film magazine, Arabs have captured the French Captain de Cadiere (Bryant), but he escapes with the help of Hassouna (Nazimova), a young Bedouin woman of the desert. She is abandoned to die by the irate sheik (Stern), is captured by marauders of the desert sands, and is sold in slavery to the manager of a small French circus. The Captain, at a show near a small town where his ship is anchored, finds the Bedouin woman and takes her to his home. After hearing that the Captain's detachment has killed all of her tribe in the desert, she vows vengeance upon the Frenchman. However, she fails in the execution of her threat due to his love for her.

####Eyes of the Soul####
As described in a film publication, Gloria Swann (Ferguson) is driving Judge Malvin's (Backus) automobile when she nearly runs down Larry Gibson (Standing), a blind soldier in a wheelchair. The two meet often thereafter, with Gloria reading to him and taking him on wheelchair outings. Gloria falls in love with him. Judge Malvin, who loves Gloria, tries to dissuade her, calling the soldier a "blind wreck." When Larry's finances get low, Gloria takes some songs he has written to a music publisher, and, being a cabaret singer, performs them at the Palm Garden club. The songs are a hit, and Larry signs a contract with the publisher. Instead of a mansion with the judge, Gloria ends up living in a boarding house with Larry, but they are happy. Larry is reconciled to the loss of his sight, for he sees through "the eyes of his soul."

####F.T.W.####
Frank T. Wells, an ex-rodeo champion, is released from prison after serving a 10-year sentence that resulted from a bar fight. He meets with old acquaintances, collects his broken old '48 Ford pickup, gets a camper to live in and returns to earning a living as a rodeo cowboy, riding his new horse Angel.

Scarlett Stuart is an amateur auto-repair mechanic who lives with her sexually-abusive brother Clem. The two of them are joined by Joe Palmieri in committing a bank robbery. During the robbery, eight policemen are killed. Trying to hide in a motel, the trio are found by the police, who kill Clem and Joe during a shootout, while Scarlett manages to escape.

On his way to his camper, Frank's truck breaks down and he unloads Angel from his trailer, and rides until he stumbles upon a barn where he happens to meet Scarlett. She agrees to help him fix the old Ford and in return, he offers the emotionally disturbed woman the opportunity to escape her problems with him.

Scarlett has a tattoo "F.T.W.", standing for "Fuck The World," and because these are the same initials of Frank's name, she believes that they are meant to be together, and they begin to have a relationship.

Living together, they try to make ends meet while laying low from the authorities, but it is more easily said than done, as Scarlett tries to support herself by means of armed robbery.

####The Face of Love####
Nikki (Bening) is a recent widow whose husband, Garret (Ed Harris), died in a drowning accident; Nikki has not yet gotten over it. Objects, people and situations that remind Nikki of the love of her life still haunt her. Resigned to life alone, Nikki visits an art gallery she often frequented with Garret and sees a man (Harris in a dual role) whose resemblance to her husband stuns her.  She returns to the gallery several more times, hoping to see him.  Eventually, Nikki identifies him as a professor at a small local college.  She finds "Tom" on the internet and visits an art class he is teaching; but she is emotionally overwhelmed and flees.  Eventually, Nikki calms down and invites Tom to give her private, at home,  tutoring in painting.  She doesn't disclose to him his physical resemblance to her late husband.

Nikki and Tom become lovers, to the emotional distress of her neighbor (Robin Williams), who has hoped to attract her interest romantically since the death of Garret, his friend.  The strain of keeping Tom a secret from her friends and family, who would immediately recognize the uncanny resemblance, begins to wear on Nikki, Tom, and the relationship.  Nikki is not alone in keeping secrets in the relationship.  Tom, who is divorced for 10 years from his ex-wife yet still maintains a close friendship with her, does not tell Nikki he suffers from a severe heart ailment.   When Nikki’s adult daughter Summer visits unexpectedly, finding Tom at the house, she flies into a rage repulsed by Tom’s appearance.  Tom believes her outrage is triggered simply by his presence.
Tom, puzzled by the daughter's reaction, accepts when Nikki asks him to fly off to Mexico with her. At a resort often visited by Garret and Nikki when they were married, Tom discovers a photo of Nikki and her husband by the bar, notices the resemblance and also realizes that a psychologically imbalanced Nikki has brought him to the very place her husband died.  Tom confronts her with the resemblance and Nikki runs off into the raging surf, perhaps to commit suicide.  She is rescued by Tom and they later hold one another in bed with the knowledge the relationship isn't based on anything more than his physical similarity to Garret and is doomed.

A year later, Summer finds an art gallery card in Nikki's mail that turns out to be an invitation to a memorial display of Tom's art.  Tom has died of his heart condition but produced an outpouring of art in his last year.  Nikki attends the reception hosted by Tom's ex-wife and tearfully sees Tom's painting of the two of them titled "The Face of Love". He has painted a haunting self portrait of himself with Nikki standing in her pool at her home looking at him.

####Faithless####
Spoiled New York socialite Carol Morgan (Bankhead), romping through the Depression with her lavish lifestyle, breaks off her engagement with Bill Wade (Montgomery) over her refusal to live on his comparatively modest salary rather than her own wealth. To make matters worse, she expresses scorn for his career as an advertising executive. An unplanned sexual encounter seems to resolve their differences until Carol refuses Bill's offer for an expedited wedding at city hall, and again they are unable to come to terms. The impasse ends with Bill leaving her at her opulent home.

Later, when Carol's lawyer and financial manager inform her that she has lost everything, she tentatively reconciles with Bill only to learn from him that he has lost his job the same day. He then informs her that he is going to Chicago with hopes of finding another position there. Further arguments about living together on whatever "meager" income Bill can earn dashes their wedding hopes once again. Disgusted by Carol's pampered personality and lifestyle needs, Bill's younger brother Tony tells her she is a "useless good-for-nothing". To his brother, Tony denounces her as a "courtesan" and predicts, “She’ll end up in the street.” The forgiving and tolerant Bill responds that she is a good person who just does not know it yet.

Carol now finds herself reduced to living off wealthy social climbers she visits and borrowing money from them, but soon the prestige formerly associated with her name dissipates. She then becomes the mistress of Peter Blainey (Hugh Herbert), whose wife had tried to evict her as a disgraced house guest, thus fulfilling part of Tony's cynical prediction. Bill eventually traces Carol to an elegant apartment, one paid for by Blainey. There he finds her with her rich but brutish benefactor. Feeling disgusted with herself after Bill departs, she ends her relationship with Blainey and leaves the apartment, telling him that if she cannot win Bill's forgiveness, she hopes to at least "square it with myself".

On her own, virtually penniless, and unable to find a job, Carol becomes desperate for food and temporarily avoids being evicted from her shabby one-room apartment by selling her shoes to the landlady. She is near collapse from hunger and exhaustion when Bill finds her again and asks her once more to marry him, telling her that the past is done and the slate is clean between them. Bill also tells her that he is now a truck driver, but the company folds, leaving him jobless again; nevertheless, the couple finally marry. As newlyweds they continue to struggle through more hard times until Bill is offered another driving job as a strikebreaker. Strikers, however, threaten him when he arrives for work and later ram his truck with another vehicle as he tries to begin work on his first day.

to pay his medical bills and their living expenses as she nurses him back to health. She accidentally solicits Tony on the street as he arrives in town, much to his disgust and Carol's humiliation. A policeman arrests her, but takes pity on her and helps her get a job as a waitress by strong-arming the owner of a small diner.

Bill is just on his feet again when his brother Tony arrives at the apartment for a visit, with news that his prediction for Carol had been fulfilled, which he delivers with great contempt before learning to his shock that Carol has indeed become his sister-in-law. Carol then comes in and tells Bill that she had intended to confess and leave as soon as he was well again, adding that she would do it all again given their dire circumstances. After a moment of sadness, Bill embraces Carol and thanks her for saving his life, wiping the slate clean again.

####Fall####
Michael Shiver (Eric Schaeffer) is a cab driver in New York. One day, supermodel Sarah Easton (Amanda de Cadenet) enters his taxi and they have a short but intense exchange. A few days later, he sees her by chance when having dinner with his two close friends, and they have a short interaction.

The movie develops with the two of them becoming interested into each other and slowly falling in love while Sarah's husband is away in Rome for two months. Michael occasionally writes her love poems and surprises her with romantic gifts such as a thousand roses delivered to her hotel room in Spain, when Sarah went there to visit her husband.

Towards the end, there is an intense conflict between Sarah and Michael, in which Sarah says how Michael doesn't understand her life and that everything happens on his terms. Michael reveals that he was a writer and had known her kind of life, but did not feel fulfilled so gave up and became a cab driver instead. Sarah goes back to her husband and Michael sends her his best-selling book (which made him famous in the past) along with a last letter with which the film ends.

####Fallen####
Lucinda Luce Price is sent to Sword and Cross Academy for troubled young teens after she is blamed for the death of a boy named Trevor who perishes in a fire started by mysterious shadows that Luce sees after kissing him. Luce feels cursed, blaming herself for Trevor’s death.

Upon arriving at her new school, Luce meets various students, including Cameron “Cam” Briel, who has taken an interest in her; Arriane Alter, who takes Luce under her wing; Molly Zane, who harasses Luce; Pennyweather "Penn” Van Syckle-Lockwood, who befriends Luce; and Daniel Grigori, a brooding boy to whom Luce is instantly attracted. She also meets Miss Sophia, a religious studies teacher. During a session, the school psychiatrist tells Lucinda she can leave if she takes antipsychotics.

During detention, picking up trash, Luce is almost crushed by a falling statue of an avenging angel. Later, Cam flirts with Luce before inviting her to a party in the woods. At the party, Luce is attracted to Cam, but can not shake the feeling of a deep and unusual connection to Daniel, despite his attempts to brush her off. Molly shows up and proceeds to harass and almost kill Luce before Arriane intervenes. As Luce leaves, she sees the “shadows” again.

Luce overhears Miss Sophia telling Daniel that Cam may have been behind the angel statue almost falling on Luce. She expresses fear for Luce because she is unbaptized. The two realize that Luce is listening to them, and Daniel follows Luce outside. They walk together and he admits that during class he was working on a graphic novel. In the story a boy and a girl are in love with each other, but are cursed such that each time they kiss, the girl dies; she then reincarnates, meets the boy (who never ages or changes) 17 years later, and they fall in love and kiss again, only for the cycle to repeat endlessly every 17 years.

Cam takes Luce to a club on her birthday and they kiss, only to be violently interrupted by Daniel, who yells that he had told Cam to stay away from Luce, and accuses him of still being “with Lucifer.” Luce flees and tells Penn what happened, confiding that she suspects Cam and she have been reincarnated. Penn and her friend Todd sneak into the library with Luce and search the computer with a facial recognition tool; they discover a photo from 1854 of Daniel and Luce, and Luce again has a flash of memory, seeing herself and Daniel posing for the photo in 1854. As Penn leaves to retrieve the photo from the printer, Luce sees the "shadows" again. Another mysterious fire breaks out; it engulfs the library and kills Todd. Daniel rescues an unconscious Luce from the fire.

Later, Luce finds Daniel on a roof top, and he reveals that they are the boy and girl from his graphic novel story. Daniel further reveals that he is a fallen angel, which explains his immortality. The two kiss, but Cam appears, telling Luce that because she has not been baptised, Lucifer will come for her. He tries to convince Luce to pick him instead of Daniel, but Daniel whisks Luce away and takes her to Miss Sophia, leaving to fight Cam and stop Lucifer from coming for Luce.

As the two fight, Cam reveals that he was not the one behind Luce's murders; meanwhile, Miss Sophia kills Penn. Luce screams, which brings Daniel to her aid and he protects her from Miss Sophia, who is revealed to be the one actually trying to kill Luce. Miss Sophia justifies her murders by explaining that, with Luce gone, Daniel would have been forced to choose a side and order would have been restored. The shadows show up behind Miss Sophia as she is talking and consume her.

Daniel explains to a shaken Luce that her being unbaptized would make her next death permanent; Miss Sophia thought this would cause Daniel to choose Heaven. He tells her that Lucifer will indeed come for her, and that he must take her somewhere safe. They declare their love for each other as they leave to find safe haven from Lucifer.

####Fallen Angel####
Successful California attorney Terry McQuinn (Sinise) looks back on his childhood in Maine. He's the son of a widowed caretaker who is too engrossed in his work to spend much time with his son, possibly out of incurable grief following the early death of Terry's mother. When Terry's father dies, he returns to Maine to take care of and settle his father's small estate. While there, he also tends a house his father cared for when Katherine Wentworth (Richardson), a New York social worker whose parents owned it before their divorce, decides to show the house to her adopted blind daughter, Olivia (Jordy Benattar) and calls to ask Terry to re-open the house.

Terry has flashed back to his boyhood and his original meeting with Katherine as a young girl when her parents came to the home one winter. He remembers going with Katherine and her father, a former professional football player, to deliver Christmas presents to hospitalised children, something her father did every year, until this night—after the deliveries, her father's car skidded on an icy road and inadvertently killed a mother and her child. Though police ruled it an accident and planned not to pursue charges, Katherine's father disappeared completely. Terry also discovers his own father kept many pictures of their little family for years after his mother died.

When he meets Katherine again, Terry is taken by her warmth and her blind daughter's love of life, and learns her long lost father isn't dead as his brother (Gordon Pinsent) made known but, rather, alive and homeless, after having worked many years at the hospital where he still donated Christmas presents annually to children there. Terry becomes uncertain whether to tell Katherine her father is still alive, and Katherine is uncertain about falling in love with Terry.

####Falling in Love####
On Christmas Eve, commercial artist Molly Gilmore and architectural engineer Frank Raftis are both, separately, doing last-minute Christmas shopping in Manhattan. Frank meets his colleague Ed for drinks; Ed tells Frank he is getting divorced. Molly sees her friend Isabelle, who is married, but plans to spend Christmas with another man; Molly also visits her sick father. Later that day, at the counter in a hectic bookstore, Frank and Molly get their packages mixed up, and on Christmas Day, Molly's husband, Brian, and Frank's wife, Ann, each opens the book that was meant for the other.

Three months later, Frank and Molly, who commute into Manhattan from adjacent stops on the Metro-North Hudson Line, run into each other on the morning train. They struggle to place each other, but eventually Frank remembers, and reminds her of the confusion over the books. Later that day, Frank's boss asks him to take a post in Houston. Molly visits her father in hospital. Molly tells Isabelle about Frank; Frank tells Ed about Molly. That evening, Frank waits for Molly at Grand Central Terminal. They talk, and agree to meet on the morning train later that week.

Against their better judgement, Frank and Molly grow closer. They see more and more of each other until, one afternoon, Frank takes Molly to Ed's apartment. They begin to make love, but Molly cannot go through with it. They agree that they must stop seeing each other.

When Molly returns home that day, Brian gives her the news that her father has died. At the funeral, she has a panic attack. Convalescing, she tells Isabelle that it isn't grief for her father that she is suffering, but the loss of Frank. Meanwhile, Frank agrees to take the job in Houston. He tells Ann about Molly, throwing the future of their marriage into question.

On the night he is due to leave, Frank calls Molly at home. Frank asks to see her before he goes, but as Brian stands listening, she ends the call. Unable to resist, she tells Brian she must see Frank one more time, and rushes to her car. Driving fast in the pouring rain, she nearly collides with a train at a crossing, and misses her chance. Meanwhile Frank tries to call her again but her husband answers the phone and says she doesn't want to talk to Frank.

Some time later, once more in the run up to Christmas, Frank meets Ed and tells him that he and Ann are now separated. Molly meets Isabelle, and it is clear from their conversation that her marriage to Brian has failed too. Frank makes a stop at the bookstore where he and Molly first met. Molly is there at the same time. They talk but, uncertain how things now stand between them, go their separate ways. Walking away from the store, Frank stops, turns, and runs after her. A short time later on a crowded train out of Grand Central, he finds her again. They embrace.

####Fanny####
César (Charles Boyer) is a barkeeper in Marseille in the early 1920s. His 18-year-old son Marius (Horst Buchholz) works for him at his bar, but wants nothing more than to go to sea and leave his boring existence behind. The only thing holding him back is Fanny (Leslie Caron), an 18-year-old girl with whom he grew up. Fanny works selling fish with her mother down at the waterfront. Fanny has been in love with Marius her whole life. She flirts with him, but Marius always rejects her.

Fanny invites Marius to a Sunday-night dance, but he rejects her once more. Unbeknownst to Fanny, Marius is planning to leave the next day. Encouraged by his friend, the “Admiral” (Raymond Bussieres), he has secretly signed on as a sailor on a round-the-world scientific expedition. Offended, Fanny leaves.

Meanwhile, elderly merchant Panisse (Maurice Chevalier) asks to meet with Fanny's mother Honorine (Georgette Anys), who believes he wants to propose to her. To Honorine's surprise, Panisses wants to marry Fanny, even though he knows she loves someone else. Although disappointed, Honorine does not object: Panisse is worth 600,000 francs.

Fanny tells Marius that she has rejected Panisse's proposal because she loves him and is willing to wait until he returns. Marius tells her he will be away for five years and to forget about him. They declare their love for each other and go to Fanny's house, where they are alone.

The following morning, Honorine discovers Fanny and Marius in bed together. She and César begin to plan their children's wedding, but Fanny urges Marius to leave. She even lies to him, telling him that she would rather marry a rich man like Panisse than him. But, in truth, she is afraid that, eventually, he will grow to hate her for depriving him of this great opportunity.

About two months after Marius goes off to sea, Fanny discovers that she is pregnant with his child. She tells Panisse, who is happy to marry her anyway, overjoyed by the possibility of a male heir to carry on his name. They marry, and Fanny gives birth to a boy. César, knowing the baby's true father, collaborates with Panisse to give the baby the name Césario Marius Panisse.

On Césario's first birthday, Panisse takes the train to Paris on business. While he is gone, Marius returns, on a short leave. He visits Fanny, and upon learning her child is his, apologizes to Fanny.  He knows now that she said those things only to make him go. Marius tells her that he wants her back, but César comes in before anything can happen. Panisse arrives home early. Knowing that Fanny will not leave without the boy, he says that he will not try to stop Fanny from going with Marius, but he will not part with the child. Fanny tells Marius she loves him, but she will not take Césario from Panisse. Marius leaves without Fanny or his child.

Ten years later, Césario (Joel Flateau) is looking forward to his birthday party. After being taken to the waterfront, Césario wanders off and meets the Admiral. The Admiral takes the boy sailing without telling anyone and reunites him with Marius, though Césario has no idea who Marius is. Marius, who is now working in a garage, is overjoyed to see his son, but when Panisse is told the boy is missing, he is stricken and taken to his room. Fanny is shocked to find Césario with his father. She announces that Panisse is dying, and Marius drives them home.

When they arrive at the house, Panisse calls for Césario to sit with him. Fanny goes outside and talks with Cesar and Marius. Marius expresses his bitterness and announces his plans to leave for the United States the next day. Fanny explains to Marius that she never told him about the baby because on the day he left, she hoped he would turn around and not get on the boat. When he did not, she felt betrayed and angry. Fanny goes to Panisse. On his deathbed, Panisse dictates a letter asking Marius to marry Fanny and be a father to Césario. His only request is that the boy keep the last name, Panisse.

####Far and Away####
In Ireland in 1892, tenant farmers who worked off the land they could never own and unfair high rents by their wealthy landlords, Joseph Donnelly dreams of running his own land someday and after his father died and his family is facing evictions. Joseph Donnelly's family home is burned down by his landlord Daniel Christie's men because of unpaid rent. Joseph tries killing Daniel, but he injures himself in the process and is nursed back to health by Nora, Daniel's wife, and her daughter, Shannon. Shannon plans to run away from home and travel to America, as there is land being given away for free there, taking Joseph with her as her servant.

Together on a ship bound for America, Shannon meets Mr. McGuire, who tells her and Joseph about free land being given away in Oklahoma. Shannon divulges that her collection of silver spoons will cover all expenses to get them to Oklahoma, and McGuire offers to help her find a shop to sell them to once they arrive. Upon arriving, McGuire is shot, and Shannon loses her spoons. Mike Kelly, a Boston ward boss, finds Joseph and Shannon jobs and a room to rent. Joseph becomes a regular in bare-knuckle boxing matches at Boss Kelly's club to make extra cash.

Joseph discovers that Shannon has gone to Kelly's club to dance burlesque. The Irish men surrounding the couple beg him to fight for $200, which would get them to Oklahoma. Joseph agrees and is winning until he notices one of his backers groping Shannon. Joseph pushes through the crowd to free her, but is pushed back into the ring where he is defeated by a sucker punch. Joseph returns to their room to find Kelly and his men taking the money he and Shannon saved that he lost in the fight, and Joseph and Shannon are thrown out into the streets, homeless.

Cold and famished, the pair stay in a seemingly abandoned house. The owners of the house return and chase them away, shooting Shannon in the back. Joseph, knowing the Christies are looking for her in Boston, brings Shannon to the home where they're staying. Deciding Shannon will be better cared for by them, Joseph leaves, despite his obvious feelings for her. Joseph heads west to the Ozarks, and finds work laying train track. He sees a wagon train out the door of his boxcar. Knowing it is headed for the Oklahoma land rush, Joseph abandons the railroad and joins the wagon train, arriving in time for the Land Run of 1893.

Joseph finds Shannon, Chase, and the Christies already in Oklahoma. Chase, having seen Joseph talking to Shannon, threatens to kill him if he goes near Shannon again. Joseph outpaces everybody and catches up with Shannon and Chase.  Joseph is ready to plant his claim flag, but Chase rushes on horseback at Joseph. A fight breaks out, with Joseph being crushed by the horse. Shannon runs to his side and rejects Chase when he questions her actions. Joseph professes his love for Shannon and dies in her arms, but comes back to life fully revived when Shannon reciprocates Joseph's love. They both drive the land stake into the ground and claim their prize land together.

####A Farewell to Arms####
Frederick Henry (Rock Hudson) is an American officer serving in an ambulance unit for the Italian Army during World War I. While recovering from a wound in a British base hospital in northern Italy, he is cared for by Catherine Barkley (Jennifer Jones), a Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps nurse he had met earlier, near the front, and they engage in an affair. Frederick's friend, the doctor, convinces the army that Frederick's knee is more severely wounded than it actually is and the two continue their romance but never get married.

Catherine discovers she is pregnant but after sneaking alcohol into the hospital for Frederick, the head nurse Miss Van Campen (Mercedes McCambridge) discovers the duplicity and separates them. She informs Frederick's superiors that he has fully recovered from his wounds and is ready for active duty. During their separation, Catherine comes to believe Frederick has abandoned her.

Following the Battle of Caporetto, Frederick and his close friend Major Alessandro Rinaldi (Vittorio De Sica) are among the dispirited and retreating Italian army. Along the path or the retreat, several people die or are left behind due to exhaustion. Raving with illness, exhaustion and depression, Major Rinaldi professes defeatism with the pair arrested by the Carabinieri. A drumhead court-martial sentences Rinaldi to execution by firing squad that is immediately carried out. After Frederick tries to argue in defense of Rinaldi and makes the Italian salute incorrectly (as is his habit), the court-martial judge becomes suspicious that Frederick is also an infiltrator; he knocks out the kerosene lamps and flees, jumping into the river.

Wanted by the Italian authorities, Frederick evades capture and meets up with Catherine. They flee Milan to hide out on a lake on the Italian-Swiss border (Lake Lugano or Lake Maggiore). Fearing arrest by the police, Catherine persuades Frederick to flee to Switzerland by rowboat; after some adventures, they land successfully in Switzerland. Claiming to be tourists trying to evade the war, the two are allowed to remain in neutral Switzerland. Catherine's pregnancy progresses and all appears well, but when the time comes for her to deliver the baby, the labor is protracted and ultimately a Cesarean section is necessary.  Their child is stillborn, and Catherine dies shortly afterward of a hemorrhage. Frederick leaves, shocked, and wanders the empty streets.

####A Farewell to Arms####
The plot is from the original 1932 film on Turner Classic Movies. The film suffered from editing and censorship even at its initial release. (See below.)

On the Italian front during World War I, Lieutenant Frederic Henry, is an American serving as an ambulance driver with the Italian Army. While carousing with his friend, Italian Captain Rinaldi, a bombing raid takes place, and Frederic and English Red Cross nurse Catherine Barkley, who left the nurses’ dormitory in her nightclothes chance to meet in a dark stairway. Frederic is tipsy and makes a poor first impression.

Later, Rinaldi persuades Frederic to go on a double date with two nurses, who happen to be Catherine and her friend Helen Ferguson, "Fergie". At a concert for officers and nurses, Frederic and Catherine stroll into the garden, where Catherine reveals that she had been engaged to a soldier who was killed in battle. After more conversation, Frederic tries to kiss her and she slaps him. Both apologize and talk some more, before she asks him to kiss her again. In the darkness, he seduces her and tells her he loves her.

In the morning, three ambulances, including Frederic's, leave for the front. Before leaving, Frederic tells Catherine that what happened between them was important, and that he will survive the battle unscathed. Catherine gives him a St. Anthony medal she wears around her neck. Rinaldi observes this, and then enters a major's office, where it is revealed that Rinaldi had orchestrated the separation to prevent Frederic from being with Catherine. The major transfers Catherine to Milan.

At the front, Frederic is badly wounded by an artillery shell. He is sent to a hospital in Milan where Catherine rushes to his bed to embrace him. Later that night, an Italian Army priest visits Frederic while Catherine is there. Seeing they are in love, he performs an unofficial wedding.

Months later, Catherine and Frederic ask Fergie for their wedding, who rejects the offer, saying they won't marry due to the war. As she leaves, she warns Frederic that if he gets Catherine pregnant, she will kill him. Back at the hospital, Frederic is told his convalescent leave is canceled. While waiting for his train, Catherine confides to Frederic that she is scared of each of them dying. He promises he will always come back, and they kiss before he leaves. Later, Catherine reveals to Fergie that she is pregnant and she is going to Switzerland to have the child.

While apart, Catherine writes letters to Frederic, never revealing her pregnancy. In Turin, Rinaldi tries to entice Frederic to have some fun, but Frederic is intent on writing to Catherine. Rinaldi, unbeknownst to Frederic, makes sure that all of Catherine's letters are "Returned to sender". Meanwhile, the hospital at Milan returns Frederic's letters to him, marked "person unknown." Fredrick deserts and goes to Milan to find Catherine.

In Milan, Fredrick finds only Fergie, who refuses to tell him anything other than Catherine was pregnant and is gone. Rinaldi meets Frederic at a hotel and finally reveals that Catherine is going to have a baby and that she is in Brissago, apologizing for his part in keeping the lovers apart.

While Frederic is rushing to the Brissago, Catherine goes into labor and is taken to a hospital. Frederic arrives as Catherine is wheeled into the operating room for a Caesarean section. After the operation, a surgeon tells Frederic the baby boy, was stillborn.

When Catherine regains consciousness, she and Frederic exchange endearments and plan their future, until Catherine panics fearing she is going to die. He tells her they can never really be parted. She tells him she is not afraid and dies in Frederic's arms as the sun rises. Frederic picks up her body and turns slowly toward the window, sobbing, "Peace, Peace."

####The Fault in Our Stars####
Indianapolis teenager Hazel Grace Lancaster is living with thyroid cancer that has spread to her lungs. Believing she is depressed, her mother urges her to attend a weekly cancer patient support group. There, Hazel meets Augustus "Gus" Waters who is at the support group for his friend Isaac, who has eye cancer. Gus lost a leg to bone cancer but has since gone into remission. Hazel and Gus bond over  their hobbies and agree to read each other's favorite books. Gus gives Hazel "The Prince of Dawn", while Hazel recommends "An Imperial Affliction", a novel about a cancer-stricken girl named Anna that parallels Hazel's own experience, but has an abrupt ending. Its author, Peter Van Houten, retreated to Amsterdam following the novel's publication and has not been heard from since.

Weeks later, Gus tells Hazel he has tracked down Van Houten's assistant, Lidewij, and has been corresponding with Van Houten via email. Van Houten says he is only willing to answer their questions in person. Gus then surprises Hazel with tickets to Amsterdam, acquired from a charity organization that fulfills the wishes of children with critical illnesses. After a medical setback, Hazel's doctors eventually allow the trip.

Hazel and Gus arrive in Amsterdam, where Gus confesses his love for Hazel during a romantic meal sponsored by Van Houten. The following afternoon, they go to Van Houten's house, but are shocked to discover he is a mean-spirited alcoholic. It is revealed that the emails from Van Houten had actually come from Lidewij, who arranged the meeting without Van Houten's knowledge. Van Houten taunts Hazel for seeking serious answers to a piece of fiction and belittles her medical condition. Distraught, the teens leave the residence, but Lidewij follows after them and invites them to go sightseeing to compensate for their ruined experience. The three of them visit the Anne Frank House, where Hazel and Gus share their first kiss. They return to Augustus' hotel room, where they lose their virginity to each other. The next day, after Gus and Hazel have breakfast with Hazel's mother, Frannie, and they both go for a walk before sitting down on a public bench, Gus reveals to Hazel that his cancer has returned, is spreading throughout his body, and is now terminal.

After their return to Indianapolis, Gus' health continues to deteriorate. Gus invites Hazel and Isaac to his "pre-funeral" so that they can both deliver their prepared eulogies, during which, Hazel tells Gus she would not trade their short time together for anything. Gus dies eight days later. At his funeral, Van Houten appears behind Hazel and reveals that Gus had demanded he do so. After the funeral service, Hazel tells her parents that she wants some alone time and to go for a drive. Not having left yet, while still in her car, Hazel is frightened when Van Houten abruptly enters the car from the passenger side. Van Houten then apologizes for his behavior when she and Gus were in Amsterdam, and explains to her that "An Imperial Affliction" was inspired by his own daughter, Anna, who died from leukemia at a young age. He gives Hazel a piece of paper, which she initially crumples up and discards in the car, but later retrieves it after Isaac visits her at her house and reveals that the paper was a letter from Gus, who had asked Van Houten for assistance in writing a eulogy for Hazel.

Hazel reads the letter, in which Gus accepts his fate and professes his love for Hazel. As Hazel finishes the letter, she lies on her back on the lawn in her backyard and looks up at the stars, smiling.

####Female####
Alison Drake (Ruth Chatterton) is the wealthy owner and hard-driving, no-nonsense head of a large automobile company, inherited from her father. Her work has caused her to lose her youthful romanticism, and she has casual affairs with men, including her own employees.

Alison hosts a party at her mansion, but becomes fed up with the men out to either sell her things or marry her for her money. She dresses down and goes to an amusement park, where she picks up a man at a shooting gallery. They have fun together, but he refuses her offer to go home with her.

The next day, they meet again at her factory. To their mutual astonishment, he turns out to be Jim Thorne (George Brent), a gifted engineer she has ordered her underlings to hire away from her competition. Saying that she has no time now, Alison has him come to her mansion that night, supposedly to discuss his plans for the company in detail. She attempts to seduce him, but he rejects her as anything other than his employer.

Annoyed, she turns to her assistant, Pettigew (Ferdinand Gottschalk), for advice. He tells her that men want women who are softer and less independent, so she adjusts her tactics. She tricks Jim into a picnic and wears him down. In the end, he succumbs to her charms.

The next day, he shows up at her office with a marriage license, but she informs him that she likes their relationship just the way it is. Outraged, he quits.

Alison has another problem on her hands. Her company needs more financing to survive, but another firm is intent on taking advantage of the situation to take over and has gotten the local banks to turn her down. She sets up an appointment to meet with bankers in New York City, but then breaks down when she realizes that she cannot live without Jim.

She has the police track down which way he went and drives off after him. She eventually finds him (at another shooting gallery) and tells him that she is willing to get married. Then, he realizes that they can fly to New York in time to save her company. Even so, she tells him that he will run the firm, while she desires to have nine children.

####Fifty Shades Darker####
After Anastasia Steele left Christian Grey, he has nightmares about his abusive childhood. Meanwhile, Ana begins a new job as an assistant to Jack Hyde, an editor at Seattle Independent Publishing (SIP) whose last three assistants all quit within only 18 months without notice.

Ana runs into Christian at the opening of her friend José Rodriguez's photography exhibit. She is dismayed Christian bought all of José's portraits of her. He wants her back and agrees to her “no rules, no punishments, and no more secrets” terms. He also tells her that his birth mother was a crack-addicted sex worker.

As Jack and Ana head for an after-work drink, she is approached on the street by a young woman resembling her. Christian arrives at the bar and is cool towards Jack, then quickly departs with Ana. She dismisses Christian's warning about his reputation, and is annoyed that he is considering buying SIP. Jack tells Ana he expects her to accompany him on a New York book expo trip, but after speaking with Christian, she agrees not to go.

Shortly after, Ana again sees the same woman watching them from afar. Christian avoids answering about her identity, but later explains she is Leila Williams, a former submissive. After their contract ended, she wanted more, but he didn't. Leila married a man who later died, causing a nervous breakdown. She has been stalking him ever since.

Prior to the Grey family's annual charity ball, Christian takes Ana to Esclava, a beauty salon owned by Elena Lincoln. A family friend, she is also Christian's former dominant who introduced him to the BDSM lifestyle by sexually assaulting him when he was a minor. Ana is furious that Christian took her there, and that they are business partners after all that. At the ball, Christian's sister Mia mentions that he was expelled from four different schools for brawling.

Christian tells Ana that his biological mother overdosed and died. He was alone with her body for three days before being taken to the hospital where Dr. Grace Trevelyan Grey worked; she cared for and later adopted the young boy. During the ball, Ana rebuffs Elena's demand that she leave Christian, warning Elena to stay away. Arriving home, she and Christian discover Leila has vandalized Ana's car.

When Ana tells Jack she won't be attending the expo with him, he attempts to sexually assault her while they are alone at work, but she evades him and escapes. Christian exerts his influence to have Jack fired, and Ana is promoted to acting editor in his place. Christian asks Ana to move in with him and she agrees.

At Ana's apartment, Leila, there waiting for her, threatens her with a gun. Christian and his driver/bodyguard, Jason Taylor, enter and Christian disarms Leila by becoming her dominant once more. Ana, deeply disturbed seeing his need to be dominant, leaves, returning several hours later to his apartment. Christian is furious at her unexpected absence, but Ana needs time to consider their relationship. He, distraught at the idea of Ana leaving him, submissively drops to his knees, confessing he is not a dominant, but a sadist who enjoys hurting women who look like his birth mother (like Ana). He insists he wants to change. Christian later proposes, but Ana needs time to consider this before accepting.

Christian leaves on a business trip, piloting his own helicopter. An engine failure occurs over Mt. St. Helens, forcing him to ditch the craft in a heavily forested area. A massive search and rescue ensues. As Ana fearfully awaits news, he arrives home safely. Ana, realizing how much she loves him, accepts his marriage proposal.

At Christian's birthday, Elena accuses Ana of being a gold digger. Ana orders her to stop interfering. Christian overhears and dismissively tells Elena she taught him "how to fuck"  while Ana taught him "how to love". Grace overhears the conversation and demands Elena leave for good; Christian also cuts all ties with her. Later that evening, Christian formally proposes to Ana, this time with a ring, and she accepts. As fireworks erupt in the sky, Jack Hyde watches the festivities from afar, silently swearing revenge against them.

####Fifty Shades Freed####
Newlyweds Christian and Anastasia are forced to cut their honeymoon short and return home after receiving news of a break-in at his corporate headquarters. Some computer files were stolen and security camera tapes identify the perpetrator as Jack Hyde, Ana's former boss who was fired for sexual assault. Meanwhile, Ana is introduced to her new personal security team.

Christian surprises Ana with a new house and has hired an attractive architect, Gia Matteo, to rebuild it for her. She is annoyed when Gia openly flirts with him in her presence. Ana privately threatens to fire Gia if she keeps it up, forcing her to stop.

When Christian is away on a business trip, Ana disregards his wishes that she stay at home, and meets her friend, Kate Kavanagh, for a drink. Kate is dating Christian's older brother Elliot and fears Elliot may be having an affair with Gia, his business associate. Jack Hyde attempts to kidnap Ana when she gets home. Ana's security team subdues him and he is arrested.

After arguing with Christian about her night out with Kate, Ana berates him for being overly controlling and possessive and demands more freedom. Soon after, he surprises her with a trip to Aspen, bringing along Kate, Elliot, Mia, and José. Elliot proposes to Kate, who accepts. It is revealed that Gia was only helping Elliot choose the ring.

The newlyweds continue with their erotic sexual experimentation, but it becomes complicated when Ana announces she is pregnant. Christian is deeply disturbed, saying he had other plans for their early years together. He leaves, going on a night-long drunken bender. After he returns, Ana discovers that Christian had texted and met his ex-lover and former BDSM dominant, Elena Lincoln. She becomes angry with him and locks herself in the playroom for the night. He searches for Ana in the morning and they continue arguing, with Ana telling Christian how important the baby is to her.

Shortly after, Hyde is released on a $500,000 bond and phones demanding a ransom for Mia, Christian's abducted sister. Hyde demands $5 million in cash in two hours and threatens to kill her if his demands are not met. He warns Ana to tell no one and to bring the money alone. Ana takes a chequebook and revolver from Christian's desk and goes to the bank to withdraw the full amount.

The suspicious bank manager calls Christian. He thinks Ana is leaving him but then notices it coincides with Hyde's recent release, Mia's unknown whereabouts, and Ana's sudden large cash withdrawal. Hyde instructs Ana to get into a car parked in the alley and to hand over her phone to the driver to discard. She tricks Hyde by taking the bank manager's phone and slipping hers into the bag of money. She exits the back entrance to discover that the driver and Jack's accomplice is her co-worker, Liz.

Ana arrives at the drop-off site with the money. Hyde, psychotic and vengeful, attacks her, kicking her abdomen. Liz tries to stop him as Ana pulls out the revolver and shoots him in the leg. Christian and his security team, who electronically tracked Ana's cell phone, arrive and apprehend Hyde and Liz. Ana blacks out as she hears Christian's voice.

Ana awakens three days later in the hospital with Christian at her side. Though angry at her recklessness and still anxious about fatherhood, he realizes how important their baby is to her, and they reconcile. Christian's adoptive mother, Grace, assures him that Ana will not leave him. She returns home the next day.

Christian's private investigator, Welch, has left a report showing that Christian and Hyde had shared the same foster family, though he has no memory of this. Hyde was envious of Christian being adopted by the wealthy Grey family instead of him. Hyde also blackmailed Liz into being his accomplice. Christian and Ana also find out where his birth mother is buried. They visit her grave and he lays flowers on it.

While Christian is playing his piano, Ana walks through the hallway to the living room to watch Christian. As she's watching him, flashbacks of Christian and Ana's time together are shown with "Love Me like You Do" playing. Ana then decides she wants to play. She sends him a text message to get his attention. As Christian joins Ana in the playroom, the music continues to play as Christian shuts the door, right after seeing Ana smile.

Seven months later, Christian and Ana have a son named Teddy and three years later Ana is pregnant with their second child.

####Fifty Shades of Grey####
21-year-old Anastasia "Ana" Steele is an English literature major at Washington State University's satellite campus near Vancouver, Washington. When her roommate, Kate Kavanagh, becomes ill and is unable to interview Christian Grey, a 27-year-old billionaire entrepreneur, for the college newspaper, Ana agrees to take her place. At Christian's Seattle headquarters she stumbles her way through the meeting. Christian, who is that year's WSU commencement speaker, takes an interest in her; soon after, he visits the hardware store where Ana works, and offers to do a photo shoot to accompany the article she had interviewed him for.

Christian invites Ana for coffee, but leaves abruptly after she confesses to being a romantic, saying he is not the man for her. He later sends her first edition copies of two Thomas Hardy novels, including "Tess of the d'Urbervilles", as a gift, with a quote from the latter book about the dangers of relationships, on an accompanying card. Ana and her friends celebrate graduation at a local bar. After drinking too much, she spontaneously calls Christian, saying she is returning the books, and berating his behavior towards her. He goes to the bar to find her, arriving just as her photographer friend, José Rodriquez, attempts to kiss her against her will. Ana is suddenly sick. The next morning, she wakes up in Christian's hotel room, relieved that they were not intimate.

Ana and Christian begin seeing each other, though he insists that she sign a non-disclosure agreement preventing her from revealing details about their dalliance. He explains that he engages in sexual bondage  relationships, but only as clearly defined in a contract between the participants. Ana reveals that she is a virgin. While considering the agreement and negotiating her own terms, and after visiting his "playroom", a room stocked with a variety of BDSM toys, furniture and gear, she and Christian have conventional sex (Ana loses her virginity). The next morning, before being taken home, she meets Christian's adoptive mother, Grace, who unexpectedly arrives.

Christian bestows a series of gifts and favors upon Ana, including a new car and a laptop. After she and Kate move to Seattle, she continues seeing him. During dinner at his parents' home, Ana suddenly mentions she is leaving the next day to visit her mother in Georgia. Later, Christian becomes frustrated when she says she wants more than the one-sided relationship he proposes. She is shocked when Christian shows up in Georgia; he takes her air gliding, then returns to Seattle to tend to a business emergency.

After returning home, Ana continues seeing Christian, who wants further sexual experimentation. She initially consents, but he remains emotionally distant, upsetting her. While still considering the contract, and in an effort to understand Christian's psychology, Ana asks him to demonstrate how he would "punish" her for rule-breaking. He whips her buttocks with a belt, making her count each strike out loud. Upset and disgusted, Ana leaves Christian, concluding he is wrong for her and his practices are deviant and excessive.

####Finding Home####
This is a story about family, love, and loss. It follows a young woman named Amanda (Lisa Brenner), and her journey in rediscovering the past. After finding out her grandmother (Louise Fletcher) has died, she finds herself inheriting her grandmothers B&B located on a small island. Going back to the island digs up mixed emotions and memories that Amanda must work through, while figuring out whether or not to sell the B&B. During her stay at the B&B, Amanda uncovers her grandmothers past and gets to the bottom of what really happened the summer she was forced to leave the island she once loved.

####Bound####
Michelle Mulan, an attractive woman in her forties, is a real estate broker who has recently been promoted at a failing firm. Although she is fully qualified for her new position, she was promoted because of her father, Walter's, status as chairman. While other executives want to sell the firm, she thinks it would be more of an advantage for her father's company to merge with a larger firm.

Despite unfulfilled sexual desires, Michelle does not cheat on her boyfriend George. As a single mother, she struggles to raise her teenage daughter, Dara, who wants more freedom in her life. Michelle takes Dara to a local restaurant dinner one evening, where she meets a man named Ryan Black, 15 years younger than she, who becomes enamored of her. After dropping Dara off at home, Michelle returns to the restaurant, where Ryan tries to seduce her. She fends him off, but accepts his telephone number. Although, initially, she decides not to meet him, but the next day, after the merger is authorized, she does meet with him. After rejecting a marriage proposal from George, Michelle goes out with Ryan. On their date, he introduces her to the world of BDSM, after which Michelle cheats on George. After breaking up with George, Michelle begins to date Ryan, easily giving in to his dominating personality.

Falling in love, Michelle begins to call Ryan her "master" and refers to herself as a "messy whore." At a benefit dinner, Ryan begins to insult Michelle's client, Jesse Aaron, and to operate a vibrator egg she is wearing while she is with Jesse. Still, Michelle manages to get Jesse to consider a merger.

Michelle decides to learn more about being dominated and quickly finds that she enjoys submitting to Ryan's will. She learns that Ryan has a criminal record. She continues to try to negotiate a merger deal with Jesse Aaron in order to save her father's firm and continues to see Ryan, surrendering to him completely, while learning more and more about the submissive lifestyle. Along the way, she also learns how to become a dominant, and a woman at a BDSM club warns her that Ryan is a predator.

Unknown to her, Ryan also rapes Dara and has made her a submissive. Seeing this, Michelle finally throws off Ryan's bonds and uses her new-found sexual prowess to take control of her life. Ryan assaults her when she confronts him at his loft about his grooming and rape of Dara, but Michelle knocks him unconscious with a camera tripod. She takes him to his private dungeon and binds him, turning him into her submissive. After torturing Ryan, Michelle turns him over to the police for raping her underage daughter.

With her newfound confidence, Michelle seals the deal with Jesse Aaron and the merger of Walter's company to Jesse's is successful which impresses Walter so much that he makes Michelle a full partner in the company. Afterward in the final scene, Michelle signs the paperwork in her office finalizing the business merger with Jesse's company... and then makes him her submissive.

####Carmen, Baby####
A liberated woman tempts a local police officer into a romantic entanglement with unpleasant consequences.

####Color of Night####
Dr. Bill Capa, a New York psychologist, falls into a deep depression after Michelle, an unstable patient, commits suicide in front of him by jumping from his office window. The sight of the bloody body clad in a bright green dress causes Bill to suffer from psychosomatic color blindness, taking away his ability to see the color red. Bill travels to Los Angeles to stay with a friend, fellow therapist Dr. Bob Moore, who invites him to sit in on a group therapy session. However, Bob is violently murdered in the office and Bill is plunged into the mystery of his friend's death.

Lt. Hector Martinez considers everyone in Moore's therapy group, including Bill, as suspects in the murder. Bill continues to live in Bob's house and begins an affair with Rose, a beautiful but mysterious young woman who comes and goes.  Bill takes over the therapy group, which includes: Clark, a temperamental OCD sufferer; Sondra, a nymphomaniac and kleptomaniac; Buck, a suicidal ex-police officer; Casey, who paints sado-masochistic images; and Richie, a 16-year old with gender dysphoria and a history of drug use.

After Casey is murdered, Bill becomes the target of several attempts on his life. He discovers that all but one of his patients have been romantically involved with Rose. He eventually learns that "Richie" is really Rose, and the murders were the work of her deranged brother, Dale. They once had an actual brother named Richie, who hanged himself after being molested by his child psychiatrist Dr. Niedelmeyer, who also abused Dale.

After Richie committed suicide, Dale abused Rose into playing the part of their brother. Rose began to re-emerge during therapy and, under another personality named "Bonnie", started relationships with the other patients. Dale proceeded to kill them, fearing that they would soon link Rose to Richie.

Dale kidnaps Rose, and tries to kill Capa and Martinez with a nail gun when they arrive to rescue her. At the last moment, however, Rose frees herself and kills Dale. Deeply traumatized, she tries to commit suicide, but Capa convinces her to keep living. As they kiss, Capa regains the ability to see the color red.

####Henry & June####
In 1931 in Paris, France, Anaïs Nin is in a stable relationship with her husband Hugo, but longs for more out of life. When Nin first meets Henry Miller, he is working on his first novel. Nin is drawn to Miller and his wife June, as well as their bohemian lifestyle. Nin becomes involved in the couple's tormented relationship, having an affair with Miller and also pursuing June. Ultimately, Nin helps Miller to publish his novel "Tropic of Cancer", but catalyzes the Millers' separation, while she returns to Hugo.

####In Secret####
In the lower echelons of Parisian society in the 1860s, Thérèse Raquin is a beautiful, sexually repressed young woman trapped in a loveless marriage to her sickly cousin, Camille, who she was forced to marry by her domineering aunt, Madame Raquin.

Thérèse spends her days confined behind the counter of a small shop and her evenings watching Madame Raquin play dominoes with an eclectic group of acquaintances. After she meets her husband's alluring friend Laurent LeClaire, the two embark on an illicit affair that leads to tragic consequences.

During an outing on the lake with Laurent and Therese, Camille is beaten to death by Laurent and subsequently drowns. Madame Raquin finds it difficult to come to terms with her son's death and is soon incapacitated by a stroke, but overhears Laurent and Therese speaking about what they did. With great effort, she alerts one of their friends, who informs the authorities.

To escape being sentenced for the murder, Laurent and Therese choose to take their own lives. They go down to the river and share one final kiss after drinking poison mixed with champagne, and thus they die in front of Madame Raquin.

####In the Cut####
Frannie Avery, an introverted writer and English teacher in New York City, meets one of her students, Cornelius, at a local pub to talk about coursework. Cornelius proposes a theory that John Wayne Gacy may not have been guilty of his crimes, later suggesting that 'desire' was responsible. On her way to the basement bathroom, she witnesses a woman performing oral sex on a man. Though it's dark, she can see a 3 of spades tattoo on the man's wrist and the woman's blue fingernails.

Periodically, Frannie reads poems on subway posters that seem to have bearing on her own life.

Several days later, Detective Giovanni Malloy questions Frannie as he investigates the gruesome murder of a young woman whose severed limb was found in Frannie's garden. Frannie is alternately thrilled and frightened by the detective's sexual aggressiveness, even as she grows disillusioned with the sexist attitudes and crude behavior of other men, including the detective's partner, Richard Rodriguez, who can no longer carry a gun because he tried to kill his wife. Frannie questions Malloy about his 3 of spades tattoo, which he says identifies him as a member of a secret club. While walking home from a bar, she is assaulted by a masked stranger. She phones Malloy, and the two have passionate sex.  She realizes a charm is missing from her bracelet.

The next day, Frannie describes the sexual encounter to her free-spirited half-sister, Pauline, who lives above a strip club. After Malloy tells Frannie that she and the murder victim were in the same bar the night of the murder, she begins to suspect that Malloy may be the killer. A second victim is found dismembered in a washing machine at a school laundry. Frannie accompanies Malloy to a secluded spot along a river, where he teaches her to use a gun. Meanwhile, Cornelius has been taken in for police questioning on suspicion of the murders because his term paper on John Wayne Gacy is illustrated with blood.

Frannie is confronted by her former boyfriend, John, who tells her he has been having panic attacks. She goes to Pauline's apartment, which she finds unlocked and in disarray. In the bathroom, she finds Pauline's severed head in a plastic bag. After being questioned by Malloy, Frannie gets drunk in her apartment. Cornelius arrives and attempts to rape her, but is interrupted by Detective Rodriguez. Later, Malloy reveals that the killer's 'signature' is leaving a ring on the finger of his victims. Frannie handcuffs him to a pipe, and they have sex. After discovering that Malloy has her missing charm and a key to Pauline's apartment, she confronts him about his tattoo and suggests that he is the serial killer. She takes Malloy's jacket and gun, leaving him handcuffed, and is met by Rodriguez outside. He persuades her to get into his unmarked police car.

Rodriguez drives Frannie to the Little Red Lighthouse below the George Washington Bridge. She tells him that it reminds her of a book she teaches, "To the Lighthouse". Frannie notices Rodriguez has the same tattoo as Malloy. Rodriguez presents a ring on the end of a knife and asks Frannie to marry him. Realizing that Rodriguez is the killer, Frannie shoots him with Malloy's gun. He attempts to strangle her, but she fires the gun again, killing him. Bloodied, she walks back to her apartment and lies down with Malloy, who is still cuffed to the pipe where she left him.

####Kinky####
Dr. Joyce Carmicheal is a shy woman who has strong repressed sexual urges, who also happens to be one of the most renowned African American surgeons in the entire world.  She doesn't have much of a social life, with no husband or boyfriend. At work she is constantly harassed by her coworker who wants to date her, but she tells him she is seeing someone even though she isn't. She meets billionaire investor Tyrone "Greenland" Bernard and becomes attracted to his money. She begins a relationship with him, who introduces her to the kinkier side of sex, such as kissing and holding hands. Joyce becomes more experimental and bold as their erotic relationship develops, including have sex in the bathtub as well as kissing in public. Joyce moves in with Tyrone.

Joyce's friends often meet her after work for salad and to complain about their husbands. Joyce eventually find out that her coworker who has been asking her out is a secret FBI agent, who wants Joyce to wear a recording device to get Tyrone "Greenland" Bernard to confess to his sick crimes. Tyrone has been stealing money from his business and has evaded millions of dollars in tax. As Joyce is in a sexual relationship with Tyrone, she agrees to wearing a wire, which she puts in her hair. That night while she and Tyrone are having sex, right before climaxing he admits that he has been stealing money from his business, which then the FBI breaks into the room and arrest him.

The following day Joyce meets him in death row and she asks him to marry her, which he does. As she leaves, outside she meets her coworker who was the secret FBI agent and it turns out that they were actually husband and wife the entire time, and that Joyce was also an FBI agent secretly tracking Tyrone. After year of eluding them, Joyce came up with the plan to become doctors in order to arrest him. They go to a wedding but before arriving to the marriage, Joyce runs to her therapist and tells her that she is pregnant, but the baby belongs to Tyrone. The therapist congratulates her and she says she will tell her husband that the baby belongs to him.

####Kiss Me, Kill Me####
Stephen Redding is a successful reality television producer with a big house in the hills and a trophy boyfriend, Dusty Young. But at Stephen's birthday party, Dusty discovers he has been having an affair with another man, Craigery. Humiliated, Dusty leaves the party, walks down to a convenience store. Stephen follows; trying to explain the affair is over, but out of nowhere—Dusty sees a flash—and blacks out.

When he comes to, Dusty learns Stephen was murdered and he's the prime suspect. LAPD Detectives Annette Riley and Noah Santos question him. But Dusty cannot remember what happened. However, West Hollywood is filled with suspects: an unstable lawyer, a couples’ therapist, a jealous ex, a sketchy best friend, a resentful lesbian couple, and a drag queen hypnotist.

With the police closing in, he must remember what happened, put the pieces of the puzzle together, regardless where the truth leads, even if it means he did kill Stephen.

####Leaving Las Vegas####
Ben Sanderson is an alcoholic Hollywood screenwriter who has lost his job, family, and friends. With nothing left to live for, and a sizable severance check from his boss, he heads to Las Vegas to drink himself to death. One early morning, he drives drunkenly from his Los Angeles home down to the Las Vegas Strip; he nearly hits a woman, Sera, on the crosswalk. She chastises him and walks away.

Sera is a prostitute working for abusive Latvian pimp Yuri Butsov. Polish mobsters are after Yuri, so he ends his relationship with Sera in fear that the Poles may hurt her. On his second day in Las Vegas, Ben looks for Sera, introduces himself, and offers her $500 to come to his room for an hour. Sera agrees, but Ben does not want sex. Instead, they talk and develop a rapport; Sera invites Ben to move into her apartment. Ben instructs Sera never to ask him to stop drinking. Ben says he will not criticize her occupation either and she thanks him.

At first, the pair are happy but soon become frustrated with the other's behavior. Sera begs Ben to see a doctor, which he refuses. While Sera is working, Ben goes to a casino and returns with another prostitute. Sera returns to find them in her bed and throws Ben out. Shortly afterward, Sera is approached by three college students at the Excalibur Hotel and Casino. She initially rejects their offer by stating that she only "dates" one at a time but eventually acquiesces when she is offered an increased price. When she enters their hotel room, the students change the deal and demand anal sex, which she refuses. When she attempts to leave, they violently gang-rape her.

The following day, Sera is spotted by her landlady returning home bruised and is evicted. Sera receives a call from Ben, who is on his deathbed. Sera visits Ben, and the two make love, and he dies shortly thereafter. Later, Sera explains to her therapist that she accepted Ben for who he was and loved him.

####Original Sin####
"Original Sin" is set in late 19th century Cuba during the Spanish rule, and flashes back and forth from the scene of a woman awaiting her execution while telling her story to a priest to the actual events of that story.

Luis Vargas, a Cuban man, sends for American Julia Russell from Delaware to be his mail-order bride. Julia comes off the ship, looking nothing like her photos. Julia explains she wants more than a man who is only interested in a pretty face, so she substituted a plain-looking woman's photo. Luis also admits to deception; he has misled her into believing he is a poor clerk instead of a wealthy plantation owner. Julia says that they both have something in common: that both are not to be trusted. But they assure each other that they will try to understand and trust each other in life.

Luis and Julia wed in the church within hours of her setting foot in Cuba. Luis falls desperately in love with her and they have passionate sex. Meanwhile, Julia's sister Emily is worried. She sends an emotional letter asking about her welfare. Luis forces Julia to write back, fearing that if Julia continues to ignore Emily's letters, Emily will assume something terrible has befallen her sister, and she might send the authorities. Holding off as long as possible, Julia finally pens a letter to her sister.

Luis adds Julia to his business and personal bank accounts, giving her free rein to spend as she pleases. A detective, Walter Downs, arrives from Wilmington and tells Luis that he has been hired by Emily to find her sister Julia and would like to see her on the coming Sunday. Luis informs Julia about this, and she gets upset. Emily arrives in Cuba to meet Luis and shows the letter Julia wrote to her. She informs Luis that she believes Julia to be an impostor and that her sister may be dead. Luis discovers that Julia has taken nearly all of his fortune and teams up with Walter to look for her.

Luis finds Julia and discovers she is actually in league with Walter. Luis believes she loves him and lies to Walter, but when confronted, a fight breaks out, and Luis shoots Walter. Julia sends Luis to go and buy them tickets home, but it was a trick, and Walter is not dead. Julia appears to love Luis but fears Walter, so she and Luis run off to live secretly, with the supposedly dead Walter in pursuit. Walter turns out to be Julia (Bonny's) old lover and partner, Billy. Billy makes a cut on Bonny's back before having sex with her, as he did during their previous encounters.

Luis throws away his promising future to be with Julia/Bonny. One night, Luis follows Julia/Bonny and discovers Walter/Billy is alive and that the two are still working together; she is apparently going to poison her husband that very night. He returns home to wait for her, and when she arrives, he reveals that he knows about the plan, confesses his love for her once more, and swallows the poisoned drink. Julia flees with the dying Luis, with Walter close behind. They run into him at a train station; Walter is furious that Julia has betrayed him. As Walter holds a knife to her throat, Luis shoots and wounds him, with Julia finishing him off.

Back in the "mise en scene", Julia finishes her story and asks the priest to pray with her. The next morning the guards come to her cell to take her to her execution, only to find the priest kneeling in her clothing.

In Morocco, Julia is watching a card game. She walks around the table occupied by gamblers - including Luis - and thanks them for allowing her to watch. As Julia signals Luis about the other players' cards, he begins telling them the story of how they got there.

####The Sessions####
In Berkeley, California, in 1988, Mark O'Brien is a 38-year-old poet who is forced to live in an iron lung due to complications from polio. Due to his condition, he has never had sex. After unsuccessfully proposing to his caretaker Amanda, and sensing he may be near death, he decides he wants to lose his virginity. After consulting his priest, Father Brendan, he gets in touch with Cheryl Cohen-Greene, a professional sex surrogate. She tells him they will have no more than six sessions together. They begin their sessions, but soon it is clear that they are developing romantic feelings for each other. Cheryl's husband, who loves her deeply, fights to suppress his jealousy, at first withholding a love poem that Mark has sent by mail to Cheryl, which she eventually finds. After several attempts, Mark and Cheryl are able to have mutually satisfying sex, but decide to cut the sessions short on account of their burgeoning feelings.

One day sometime later, the power goes out in the building in which Mark lives, causing the iron lung to stop functioning and making it necessary for Mark to be rushed to the hospital. However, he survives and meets a young woman named Susan Fernbach. The film then cuts to Mark's funeral, held sometime later in 1999, and attended by four of the women he came to know and care for, including Cheryl. Father Brendan gives the homily and Susan reads the poem he had previously sent Cheryl.

####Sliver####
Carly Norris, a book editor and divorcee in her mid-30s, moves into the exclusive New York City sliver building "113". She meets other tenants including Zeke, a video game designer; Jack, a novelist; Vida, a fashion model who moonlights as a call girl; and Gus, a professor of videography at New York University. They tell Carly that she bears a striking resemblance to Naomi Singer, the previous tenant of her apartment who fell to her death from her balcony.

After running into Zeke numerous times, Carly invites him to her housewarming party. Soon afterwards, they begin a sexual relationship. Meanwhile, Jack starts stalking Carly and warning her about Zeke who he says is "sick". As Jack's behavior becomes more erratic, Gus dies under suspicious circumstances and Vida is murdered, with police suspicion falling on Jack for her death. Zeke reveals to Carly that he is the owner of 113, which he bought with his inheritance from his wealthy father. As owner of 113, Zeke has installed a comprehensive video surveillance system throughout the building, allowing him to spy on all of the tenants from his own secret surveillance room. Through deduction and eventually one of Zeke's secret recordings, Carly learns that Jack killed Naomi in a crime of passion. Jack was jealous of Zeke, who had sexual relations with both Naomi and Vida. Jack attacks Carly in her own apartment, and she accidentally shoots him dead.

Angry at Zeke for withholding evidence in Naomi's murder, and jealous of his liaisons with Naomi and Vida, Carly destroys Zeke's surveillance room, tells him to "get a life", then leaves.

####Some Call It Loving####
The film opens on a mansion balcony overlooking the sea. A young man, Robert Troy (Zalman King), approaches a woman, Scarlett (Carol White), who is wearing a funeral veil. They discuss the young man that they are mourning. Troy asks Scarlett if she loved him, and she answers that she did.

Troy visits a carnival where he pays $1 to enter a "Sleeping Beauty" attraction. Inside the tent, a carny is dressed up as a doctor (Logan Ramsey), alongside two women dressed as nurses. The doctor makes a show of examining the Sleeping Beauty (Tisa Farrow) to demonstrate that she is healthy. He then announces that "red-blooded men" can pay another $1 to kiss the Sleeping Beauty and try to wake her.

After the show, Troy presses the carny for details about the woman, finding out that she has been asleep for  eight years. The doctor offers to leave Troy alone with her for $50. Instead, Troy asks how much it would cost to buy her. The carny suggests $20,000, and Troy agrees. The carny gives Troy a bottle and explains that its contents will keep the woman asleep. Troy takes the woman back to the mansion.

Troy announces to Scarlett, who is in bed with a bald female lover, that he has purchased a Sleeping Beauty. Troy then goes to his regular gig at a nightclub, where he plays baritone sax and leads a 6-piece band. After his set, he checks in with a junkie named Jeff (Richard Pryor) to make sure he is taking the pills that Troy bought for him.

Scarlett and Troy live a cloistered life of privilege in their mansion. They play elaborate games with each other and a string of women. Currently, Scarlett is pretending to run a finishing school. Her newest student is a young woman named Angelica (Veronica Anderson), who dresses as a French maid and waits on Scarlett and Troy. Scarlett gently corrects mistakes in Angelica's service.

Meanwhile, the Sleeping Beauty awakes, and Troy discovers that her name is Jennifer. He gradually shows her around the house, as she acclimates to being awake for the first time in years. Together, they watch Scarlett and Angelica do a dance routine while dressed as nuns. When the jukebox switches to a tango, Troy hastily shuts it off and closes a curtain to hide the women from Jennifer. He puts her to bed. Jennifer thanks him for waking her, quoting Alfred Tennyson's "Sleeping Beauty": "I'd sleep another hundred years, O love, for such another kiss." Troy jokes that he did not kiss Jennifer to wake her, and she responds that she did not sleep for 100 years.

Troy heads back downstairs, turns the jukebox back on, and lifts the curtain. Scarlett and Angelica have remained frozen in the same position from when Troy closed the curtain. The resume their dance.

The next day, Troy and Jennifer dress up and go out on a date to the jazz club, which is empty save for Jeff. Troy plays a song and dedicates it to the two people he loves the most: Jeff and Jennifer. When he comes home, he announces to Scarlett that he is going to take Jennifer away. He explains that he is having genuine feelings when he interacts with Jennifer. After so many years of the pretenses that he and Scarlett employ to amuse themselves, he is shocked to find that he does not want to create a false reality with Jennifer.

Scarlett convinces Troy to let Jennifer stay for a while, in order to ascertain if his feelings are genuine. Back at the club after closing, Troy gets a waitress to dance topless as a cheerleader for him. He gives her a very elaborate premise about whom she is rooting for, and encourages her to make it more genuine. She takes off her skirt and tries one more time, but Troy has gone home, where he makes love to Jennifer for the first time.

Realizing that his feelings are indeed real, he takes Jennifer away from the mansion in the Sleeping Beauty van included with his purchase of her. After a little while away, they return to the mansion where Scarlett and Angelica don their nun costumes. Scarlett reveals that Angelica shaved her head in order to join their order. Troy puts on a priest costume, and Scarlett pretends to initiate Jennifer as a novice. Troy is heartbroken by the ruse. He pours some of the sleeping potion into the wine that Jennifer must drink during the ceremony.

Realizing that Troy does not want to keep up the pretense, Jennifer asks him why he does not want to continue the game. She explains that she wants to keep playing the game forever, as if she were a child. As she grows tired from the potion, Troy tearfully picks her up and carries her away. The film ends with Jennifer back in the Sleeping Beauty tent. Troy is now playing the role of the doctor, and Scarlett plays his nurse.

####Beautiful Creatures####
In Gatlin, South Carolina, teenager Ethan Wate awakens from a recurring dream of a girl he has not met. He despairs of his small-town existence and dreams of leaving for college. His first day of junior year, a newcomer Lena Duchannes resembles the girl Ethan has been dreaming about. Other students gossip about Lena's reclusive uncle, Macon Ravenwood, suggesting her family are devil worshippers. On the way home, Ethan nearly runs her over. Giving her a ride, they bond over interests.

In class, a few students insist they can not be in class with Lena, and pray to be protected from her and her family. Visibly shaken, her class windows shatter, increasing fears and suspicions she is a witch. Ethan and Lena become friends and he gives her a locket he found at Greenbriar. Both touching the locket triggers a shared flashback to the Civil War.

Macon, disapproving of their relationship, conspires with Ethan's family friend, Amma, to separate them. Lena tells Ethan that she and her family are "casters" capable of performing spells. On her sixteenth birthday, her true nature will reveal itself toward either the light or dark.

Complications arise when two powerful dark casters aim to push Lena to the dark: Ridley, Lena's cousin, and Lena's mother, Sarafine, who did not raise Lena and has possessed Mrs. Lincoln, the mother of Ethan's friend Link.

Sarafine foresees Lena will become a powerful caster, wanting Lena to use her power to purge the Earth of humans, leaving just casters. The couple have another flashback of their past with the locket, revealing that their ancestors, caster Genevieve Duchannes and mortal Confederate soldier Ethan Carter Wate, were in love. Ethan died in battle, and Genevieve revived him. Doing so laid a curse on all Duchannes women; they will go dark on their sixteenth birthday. A mortified Lena asks Amma to help, being a seer and keeper of the caster library beneath the town library, extending all across the USA. The most ancient of the books reveals the secret to undoing the curse: someone Lena loves has to die. Unwilling to take Ethan's life, Lena erases his memories of their love.

Seducing Link, Ridley gives him a bullet to use in the upcoming Civil War reenactment of the Battle of Honey Hill, also Lena's sixteenth birthday, Lena feels the shock of the curse being broken and runs to Ethan, clutching his dying body as Ridley and Sarafine encourage her to accept the dark. She lashes out in anger, sending a huge tornado through the crowd, until Ethan's body transforms into Macon, who had disguised himself to be the sacrifice to lift the curse. As he is dying, he reveals that he promised Ethan's mother to keep her son alive. These dying words encourage Lena to "claim [her]self"; she causes the moon to disappear so it cannot claim her for the dark. Allowing Ridley to flee, she pulls Sarafine from Mrs. Lincoln's body, powerfully sealing away Sarafine's spirit.

Six months later, a still-amnesiac Ethan visits Amma in the library before a college tour with Link. Lena gives him a book they had once shared as a present. Lena is a half light/dark caster. As Link and Ethan reach the town line, the town's burned exit sign reminds him momentarily, he gets out of the car, shouting Lena. She hears his call.

####Beauty and the Beast####
Set in the Middle Ages; Lady Althea (Joyce Taylor) travels to the castle of Duke Eduardo (Mark Damon), the heir to the throne, where the two of them are to be married.  But the handsome Eduardo has a horrible secret: A sorcerer's curse—an alchemist, killed by Eduardo's late father—transforms him into a terrifying, wolf-like beast every night.  When Eduardo's scheming rival, Prince Bruno (Michael Pate), who has also has ambitions for the throne, learns of this secret, he tries to seize the throne by stirring up the townspeople, revealing the beast's presence to them, turning them against the beast and setting them-up to kill Eduardo for him.  Only the love of Lady Althea can save the duke and break the power of the curse.

####Beauty and the Beast####
An enchantress disguised as a beggar woman visits a castle and offers an enchanted rose to a cruel and selfish prince in exchange for shelter from a storm. When he refuses, she reveals her identity and transforms the prince into a beast and his servants into household objects. She warns the prince that the spell will only be broken if he learns to love another and be loved in return before the last petal falls, or he will remain a beast forever.

Several years later, in a nearby village, Belle, the book-loving daughter of an eccentric inventor named Maurice, dreams of adventure. She frequently tries avoiding Gaston, a narcissistic hunter who wants to marry her because of her beauty. On route to a fair to showcase his latest invention, an automatic wood-chopper, Maurice gets lost in the forest and seeks refuge in the Beast's castle; There, the Beast finds Maurice and imprisons him for trespassing. When Maurice's horse returns alone, Belle ventures out searching for her father, finding him locked in the castle dungeon. The Beast agrees to free Maurice if she takes his place as prisoner.

Belle befriends the castle's servants: Lumière the candelabra, Cogsworth the clock, Mrs. Potts the teapot, and her son Chip, the teacup; they serve her a dinner through song. When she wanders into the forbidden west wing and finds the rose, the Beast catches her and angrily forces her to flee the castle. In the woods, she is ambushed by a pack of wolves, but the Beast rescues her and is injured in the process. As Belle nurses his injuries, a rapport develops between them and as time passes, they begin to fall in love.

Meanwhile, Maurice returns to the village and fails to convince the townsfolk of Belle's predicament. Hearing Maurice's statements about the Beast, Gaston hatches a plan: He bribes Monsieur D'Arque, the warden of the town's insane asylum, to have Maurice locked up as a lunatic. Gaston will use this to force Belle into marrying him in exchange for Maurice's release. Before they can act, however, Maurice leaves for the castle to attempt a rescue alone.

After sharing a romantic dance with the Beast, Belle uses the Beast's magic mirror to check on her father and sees him collapsing in the woods. The Beast releases her to save Maurice, giving her the mirror as a memento. After Belle takes her father to the village, a band of villagers led by Gaston arrives to detain Maurice. Belle uses the mirror to show the Beast to the townsfolk, proving her father's sanity. Realizing that Belle loves the Beast, a jealous Gaston locks Belle and her father in the cellar, and rallies the villagers to help him slay the Beast. Chip, who arrived at their house as a stowaway, activates Maurice's wood-chopping machine, freeing Maurice and Belle from the cellar.

When the villagers arrive at the castle, the Beast's servants fend them off. Meanwhile, Gaston attacks the Beast, who is too depressed from Belle's departure to fight back but regains his spirit upon seeing Belle return. He defeats Gaston but spares his life before reuniting with Belle. However, Gaston fatally wounds the Beast before losing his footing and falling to his death.refn|Speaking together, with some crosstalk, Gary Trousdale, Kirk Wise, Don Hahn, and Alan Menken confirmed on the audio commentary that Gaston died after he fell off the rooftops.|group=lower-alpha The Beast dies in Belle's arms before the last petal falls. Belle tearfully professes her love to the Beast, and the spell is undone, reviving the Beast and restoring his human form along with his servants and castle. The Prince and Belle host a ball for the kingdom, where they dance happily.

####Beauty and the Beast####
An enchantress disguised as an old beggar woman arrives at a castle during a ball and offers the host, a selfish and unkind prince, an enchanted rose in return for shelter from a storm. When he scornfully turns down the offer, she reveals her true form and transforms him into a beast and his servants into household objects before erasing him, the servants, and the castle from the memories of their loved ones and everyone else in the nearby village. She warns the prince that the curse will only be broken if he learns to love another and have that person love him back before the last petal of the rose falls; if not, he will remain a beast for the rest of his life, while the servants will become inanimate objects.

Several years later, in the small town of Villeneuve, Belle, the book-loving daughter of a widowed artist named Maurice, dreams of adventure. She constantly brushes off advances from Gaston, an arrogant hunter and war veteran, as he is not the type of man Belle wishes to marry. On his way to the market, Maurice becomes lost in the forest and after narrowly escaping a pack of wolves he seeks refuge in the Beast's castle. However, the Beast imprisons him when he "steals" a rose from the garden as a gift to Belle. When Maurice's horse returns without him, Belle ventures out in search of him, and finds him locked in the castle dungeon. Belle pleads with the Beast to let her take her father's place, to which the Beast agrees but Maurice refuses. Belle is granted the chance to be allowed to say goodbye; she hugs Maurice, then surprises him by swapping places and shutting the gate on herself. The Beast drags Maurice away.

Belle befriends the castle's servants, including candelabra/footman Lumiere, mantel clock/majordomo Cogsworth, feather-duster/maid Plumette, teapot/housekeeper Mrs. Potts, and her son, Chip, who is now a teacup. They invite her to a spectacular dinner. When she wanders into the forbidden west wing and finds the enchanted rose, the Beast scares her into the woods. Belle is ambushed off-guard by the wolves from earlier, but the Beast arrives in time to save her, injuring himself in the process. As Belle nurses his wounds, a spark develops between them. The Beast shows Belle a gift from the enchantress, a book that transports readers wherever they want. Belle uses the book to visit her childhood home in Paris, where she discovers a plague doctor's mask and realizes that she and her father were forced to leave when her mother died from bubonic plague, the one thing her father could not tell her all those years.

In Villeneuve, Maurice fails to convince the other villagers of the Beast, his castle and Belle's imprisonment. Gaston, seeing rescuing Belle as an opportunity to win her hand in marriage, agrees to help Maurice. When Maurice learns of his ulterior motive and rejects him, Gaston knocks him out and abandons him to be eaten by the wolves. Maurice is rescued by the town hermit Agathe, but when he tells the townsfolk of Gaston's crime and is unable to provide solid evidence, Gaston convinces them to send Maurice to an insane asylum.

After sharing a romantic dance with the Beast, Belle discovers Maurice's predicament upon using a magic mirror. The Beast releases her to save Maurice, giving her the mirror to remember him with. Arriving back in Villeneuve, Belle reveals the Beast in the mirror much to the shock of the townsfolk, proving her father's sanity. Realizing Belle is in love with the Beast, a jealous Gaston claims that she has been charmed by dark magic and has her thrown into the asylum carriage with Maurice. He rallies the villagers to follow him to the castle to slay the Beast before he "curses" the entire village. Inside the asylum carriage, Belle tells Maurice that she already knows what happened to her mother and shows him the rose rattle she took from her magical visit to their old, abandoned home. The two manage to escape, and Belle rushes back to the castle.

During the battle, Gaston abandons his companion LeFou, who then sides with the Beast's servants to fend off the villagers. Meanwhile, Gaston attacks the Beast in his tower; the Beast is too depressed to fight back, but regains his spirit upon seeing Belle return. He overwhelms Gaston, but spares his life at the last second before reuniting with Belle. However, Gaston shoots the Beast from an unstable bridge, which then collapses, sending Gaston falling to his death. The Beast then dies just as the last petal falls, and the servants become inanimate objects.

As Belle tearfully professes her love to the Beast, Agathe reveals herself as the enchantress and undoes the curse, which repairs the crumbling castle, revives the Beast, and restores him and his servants to their human forms and to the villagers' memories once again. The film ends with Belle and the prince hosting a ball for the kingdom, where they dance happily.

####Berkeley Square####
In 1784, shortly after the United States wins its independence, American Peter Standish sails from New York to England to marry his cousin. Upon hearing of a Frenchman crossing the English Channel in a balloon, Peter regrets that he will not be able to see the marvels the future has in store.

In 1933, his descendant, also named Peter Standish, unexpectedly inherits a house in Berkeley Square, London. He becomes increasingly obsessed with his ancestor's diary, causing his fiancée Marjorie Frant great concern. When they have tea with the American ambassador, Peter confides to the diplomat with eager anticipation his conviction that he will be transported back 149 years at 5:30 that day. Peter is convinced that all he needs to do is follow his ancestor's diary, since he already knows what happens, from reading it.

He rushes home, and just as he opens the door, he is indeed back in 1784, taking the place of the earlier Peter Standish just as he arrives at the house, then owned by his relations, the Pettigrews. Lady Ann and her grown offspring Tom, Kate, and Helen are there to greet him. The Pettigrews, being in desperate financial straits, are anxious for Kate to marry the wealthy American. Peter is determined not to alter the future he has read about, until he sees Helen for the first time. He tries to fight his attraction to her, but ultimately fails. Helen, meanwhile, is being pressed by her mother to marry Mr. Throstle, but Helen has determined, even before Peter's arrival, not to marry. She later confesses to Peter that she had been dreaming of him before she saw him.

As time goes on, Peter keeps inadvertently giving offense with his unfamiliarity with 18th century customs. People also begin to fear him, as he blunders and speaks of things which have not yet taken place. For example, when he commissions Sir Joshua Reynolds to paint his portrait, he praises another Reynolds work by name, one the painter has only just begun. Kate becomes convinced that Peter is demonically possessed and breaks their engagement. Helen, however, is sympathetic to his difficulties, and falls in love with him.

Helen eventually presses Peter for an explanation of his "second sight", which he has only hinted at. Though he refuses to speak openly, she somehow sees in his eyes visions of his modern world, with all its horrors as well as its marvels, and guesses the truth. Knowing he has become disillusioned, living among ghosts born 149 years before his time, and desperately unhappy with the day-to-day realities of her era (including a lack of hygiene and plumbing, and not bathing regularly in what he calls a "filthy little pigsty of a world"), she urges him to return to his own time. He wants to stay with her regardless of the consequences, but in the end, he does go back to 1933.

When he visits Helen's grave, he learns that she died on June 15, 1787 at the age of 23. Marjorie comes to see him, worried about his sanity because he has been saying that he is from the 18th century. Peter believes his ancestor had switched places with him. He tells her he cannot marry her. Peter is consoled by the epitaph on Helen's grave, and her conviction that they will be together, "not in my time, nor in yours, but in God's".

####Beyond Tomorrow####
Engineers George Melton and Allan Chadwick work furiously to complete a design on time, even though it is Christmas Eve. Michael O'Brien, the third partner in the firm, arrives with presents for all and kindly lets their employees leave. The three old men then go home to the mansion they share with Madame Tanya, an elderly countess dispossessed by the Russian Revolution, for a dinner with prestigious guests.

When the guests cancel at the last minute, George is convinced it is because of his dark past. To relieve George's black mood, Michael comes up with an idea to obtain new guests for dinner. Each man throws out a wallet containing $10 and his business card into the street. George's is found by Arlene Terry, who merely gives the money to her driver and discards the wallet. However, the other two are returned by more considerate people: Texas cowboy James Houston and teacher Jean Lawrence. They stay for dinner and soon become good friends with the three men and Madame Tanya. James and Jean also fall in love with each other, delighting the three men.

When the engineers have to travel to another city on business, Madame Tanya begs Michael to take the train rather than fly. He assures her it is perfectly safe, but Madame Tanya's premonition proves tragically correct when their aircraft crashes in a storm, killing all three. When James and Jean come to announce that they are engaged, they receive the bad news. The ghosts of the three men return home, where they are dimly sensed by Madame Tanya.

It turns out that Michael had bequeathed some bonds to the young couple so they could afford to marry. The story is picked up by the press, and as a result, James is invited to be a guest on a radio show. This is the opportunity he has been waiting for to showcase his wonderful singing voice. At the studio, James bumps into Arlene Terry, an established singing star. She wishes him well and is impressed by his performance. She had been wanting to replace her aging partner; she and her manager, Phil Hubert, offer James a starring role in her new show. He accepts.

As James spends time with Arlene rehearsing, he becomes infatuated with her and neglects Jean, much to the distress of the ghosts, who are powerless to do anything. When Arlene's ex-husband bangs on her door, she has James leave by the back door, but not before persuading him to take a three-day break from work with her in the country.

George is summoned to leave the world. Michael begs him to repent before it is too late, but George refuses to be a hypocrite and walks away amid thunder and lightning into the darkness. Soon it is Allan's turn. His son David comes to take him to Heaven to be reunited with his wife. When Michael is called, he refuses to leave James, although a voice tells him each person is summoned only once and that he will be doomed to roam the Earth forever if he turns it down.

When Arlene leaves her apartment to meet James, her ex-husband is waiting. He needs her help to get back on his feet. However, she coldly brushes him off. When Arlene and James drive away, the jealous, estranged husband follows and shoots them when they stop for dinner. James dies on the operating table with his spirit greeted by Michael who then intercedes on his behalf, pleading with a "voice from above", for a second chance for the young man.#tag:ref|The voice explains that Michael's mother gave them no rest.|group=N His wish is granted and James returns to life. Michael is reunited with a now-repentant George, and both are admitted into Heaven.

####Blood & Chocolate####
19-year-old werewolf Vivian was born in Bucharest to Romanian parents who emigrated to America. Her parents and two siblings were murdered when she was nine.

Orphaned, she lives in Bucharest with her aunt Astrid who owns a chocolate store. Astrid is the former mate of the werewolf pack leader Gabriel who, in accordance with pack law, leaves her after seven years for a new mate. Once in a while he returns to sleep with Astrid, who remains painfully in love with him. Vivian is disgusted but Gabriel wants her as his mate, believing her to be the prophesied woman to bring about a "new age of hope" for the pack.

Vivian begins a romantic relationship with graphic novelist Aiden who is researching werewolves. Aiden has fled America where he is wanted for assaulting his father. Vivian does not reveal that she is a werewolf.

Their romance is monitored by Gabriel's son Rafe and his friends Ulf, Gregor, Finn, and Willem, together known as the "Five". Rafe is angry with Gabriel for leaving his mother, Astrid, and with Vivian due to Gabriel's intentions towards her. Seeing a drawing Aiden has done of Vivian calling her "Wolf Girl", he tells Rafe she may be a danger to the pack. Gabriel tells Rafe to make Aiden leave the city or he will die.

In an abandoned church Rafe fails to scare Aiden away and attacks him. He changes into a wolf and, attempting to bite Aiden, he bites into Aiden's silver pendant and quickly backs off. Aiden, realizing the werewolf myths are real, charges at Rafe holding the silver pendant and both fall from the balcony to the church floor. Regaining consciousness, Aiden sees Rafe dying in human form, with the silver pendant stuck in his neck. Grabbing his pendant, Aiden leaves the church.

Aiden confronts Vivian, daring her to hold the silver pendant. He tells her he killed Rafe and berates her for not confiding the truth and exposing him to danger. The Five discover Rafe's body in the church and take him to Gabriel, who breaks the news to Astrid while Vivian watches. Aiden is captured trying to leave the city.

In the forest Gabriel presents Aiden to the pack as their prey, telling Aiden he will be free if he makes it to the river at the edge of the forest. Vivian escapes her confinement and runs into the forest as a wolf to save Aiden. Aiden makes it to the river. Gabriel attempts to follow to kill him anyway but Vivian fights Gabriel, who falls into the river. Not recognizing Vivian in wolf form, Aiden stabs her with a silver knife. Vivian starts to bleed, slowly morphing back to human form. She needs an antidote to silver poisoning quickly or she will die.

Vivian takes Aiden to an abandoned film company building, telling Aiden the residual silver from the film guarantees no one will look for them there. She tells him of her guilt that her family was killed by hunters who followed her wolf tracks to their cabin. Aiden says she can control the wolf. Astrid arrives with a gun to kill Aiden; Vivian pleads with her, saying she should understand what it's like to lose a soulmate. Astrid relents and gives Vivian the gun. Vivian tells Astrid they will get the antidote from the pharmacist and then leave the city.

The pharmacist gives Vivian the antidote but also alerts Gabriel. Vivian tells Aiden to save himself and is captured by the pack. Aiden forces the pharmacist at gun point to give him all of his antidotes, silver dust, and silver bullets. He rescues Vivian, who kills Gabriel and helps the Five escape the now burning building, telling them "may you know the new age of hope when you see it".

They take Gabriel's car out of the city towards Paris, passing other werewolves who stop along the side of the road and bare their necks in respect, which identifies Vivian (and Aiden) as the new Alpha pair for the pack.

####The Bride from Vegas####
"The Bride from Vegas" opens with what seems a completely different film.  It looks like a low-budget Chinese action film.  This turns out to be a film set, and the star of the non-existent film, Allison (Charlene Rose) gets fired.

Mike (Mikael Sharafyan) is a young man living a simple life in rural Armenia with his parents.  When his street-wise cousin shows him a photo of Las Vegas showgirls, Mike falls in love with one of them and decides to travel to America, find the girl in the photo and marry her.  To raise the money he needs, he sells his pet cow.  This is only after a decidedly one-sided conversation with the cow.

Note – as long as Mike is in Armenia, all actors speak Armenian and English subtitles are shown.

His flight to Las Vegas is interrupted through a mishap, and he lands in Los Angeles.  His travel across the desert is mostly filled with random characters, each building his idea of America.

Once in Las Vegas, Mike runs into Allison and the search for the showgirl begins.  At this point the romance truly starts and the film follows a standard "rom-com" structure.

####Brigadoon####
Americans Tommy Albright (Gene Kelly) and Jeff Douglas (Van Johnson) are on a hunting trip in Scotland and become lost in the woodlands. They happen upon Brigadoon, a miraculously blessed village that rises out of the mists every hundred years for only a day. (This was done so that the village would never be changed or destroyed by the outside world.)  Tommy falls in love with village lass Fiona Campbell (Cyd Charisse), whose younger sister Jean (Virginia Bosler), is about to be married to Charlie Dalrymple (Jimmy Thompson). When Tommy and Jeff happen upon clues about the village and its people that make no sense, Fiona takes them to see Mr. Lundie (Barry Jones), the village schoolmaster, who tells them the story of Brigadoon and the miracle. If any villager ever leaves Brigadoon, the spell will be broken and the village will vanish forever. Furthermore, Lundie tells them, any outsider who wishes to stay must love someone in the village strongly enough to accept the loss of everything he or she knew in the outside world. That evening, Mr. Lundie officiates at the wedding of Jean and Charlie, which Tommy and Fiona attend. Interrupting the wedding, the jealous Harry Beaton (Hugh Laing) announces he is leaving Brigadoon to make everything disappear, since the girl he loves, Jean, is marrying another man.   Harry's words cause mass chaos among the townspeople and they all rush to stop him. Harry almost crosses the bridge but is stopped short by Tommy. They scuffle and Tommy is knocked unconscious. With men closing in on him, Harry climbs up a tree to hide but is accidentally gunned down by Jeff, who skipped the wedding to go hunting. Harry falls dead to the ground and is soon found by the men. Fiona frantically searches for and finds Tommy.  Confessing their love for each other, they decide to marry, allowing Tommy to stay in Brigadoon for good. But while Fiona goes off to find Mr. Lundie, Tommy tells Jeff about his plan. Jeff, drunk and remorseful of accidentally killing Harry, tells Tommy he can't just leave everything in the real world behind for this girl he's only known a day. Fiona returns with Mr. Lundie, but Tommy confesses that he cannot stay. Fiona says she understands but is heartbroken and they say good-bye before Brigadoon completely disappears. Tommy and Jeff cross the bridge and walk away.

Back in New York City, Tommy can think only of Fiona.  Unable even to talk with his fiancée, Tommy ends his relationship with her and calls Jeff, telling him to get the first flight back to Scotland. He and Jeff return to the same spot where they were lost, though Jeff reminds him again the village will not be there.  But suddenly Tommy sees lights start to appear through the mist and runs toward them.  Brigadoon reappears and Tommy gets to the foot of the bridge to see Mr. Lundie half-awake on the other side saying: "Tommy, lad, you! My, my, you must really love her. You woke me up." Tommy seems stunned that Brigadoon has been brought back, but Mr. Lundie reminds him: "I told ye, if you love someone deeply enough, anything is possible ... even miracles."

Tommy then runs across the bridge and reunites with Fiona as the village fades back into the mist.

####Cinderella####
When Cinderella is a young girl, her widowed father marries Lady Tremaine, a widow with two daughters of her own. He dies shortly thereafter. Lady Tremaine, jealous of her stepdaughter's beauty and determined to forward her own daughters' interests, orders Cinderella to become a scullion in her own château, overburdening her with chores. Cinderella's stepsisters, Anastasia and Drizella, also take advantage of her meekness, mocking her and adding to her workload. Despite this, Cinderella remains kind of heart, obediently doing her chores whilst taking care of the mice and birds that live in the château, making friends of them, mainly of two mice named Jaq and Gus. She also protects them from being eaten by her stepmother's cat Lucifer, who makes her duties even harder in retaliation.

One day, the local King becomes impatient for his son to provide him with grandchildren. Despite the objections of the Grand Duke, the King invites all the eligible maidens in the kingdom to a royal ball, so that the Prince will choose one as his wife. Wanting to attend, Cinderella finds a dress of her late birth mother's to fix up. Her stepmother and stepsisters, afraid she will upstage them at the ball, deliberately keep her busy with no time to spare. Jaq, Gus, and the other animals decide to fix up the dress for Cinderella, using beads and a sash discarded by the stepsisters. However, when Cinderella attempts to go to the ball with her family, her stepsisters recognize their belongings and angrily tear the dress apart, before leaving Cinderella behind.

A distraught Cinderella runs out to the garden in tears, kneeling on a stone bench. There, she is met by her Fairy Godmother, who has come to help. She transforms Jaq, Gus, and two other mice into four white horses, a pumpkin into a coach, and Cinderella's old horse Major and bloodhound Bruno into a coachman and footman, respectively. The fairy godmother also gives Cinderella a shimmering ball gown and glass slippers, but warns her that the all the magic will end on the stroke of midnight.

Cinderella arrives at the ball, and is not recognized by her stepsisters, though her stepmother believes something is familiar about her. The Prince is instantly smitten, so the King orders the Grand Duke to make sure the romance goes without a hitch. The Duke prevents anyone from interfering as Cinderella and the Prince dance a waltz and wander out to the palace grounds, falling deeper in love. However, when Cinderella hears the clock tolling midnight, she runs away before she and the Prince can exchange names. Despite the efforts of the Grand Duke, Cinderella flees the palace, losing one of her slippers on the staircase. The palace guards pursue, but when the magic ends on the stroke of 12, Cinderella and the animals revert to their former appearances and hide in the woods. Cinderella discovers the other glass slipper is still on her foot, and takes it home with her.

The Prince promises he will marry none but the girl who fits the glass slipper. Elated, the King orders the Grand Duke to try the shoe on every girl in the kingdom until he finds a match. When the news reaches the chateau, Cinderella is shocked to realize it was the Prince she met. Hearing Cinderella humming the waltz from the ball, Lady Tremaine realizes the truth and locks Cinderella in her attic bedroom. While the stepsisters unsuccessfully try on the slipper, Jaq and Gus steal the key back from Lady Tremaine. As they take the key to Cinderella, Lucifer attempts to stop them by trapping Gus and battling the other mice. The birds summon Bruno, who scares Lucifer out of the house, and a freed Cinderella hurries to meet the Grand Duke.

In a last effort to prevent Cinderella from overshadowing her daughters, Lady Tremaine causes a page to trip and break the glass slipper. Cinderella reveals she has the other slipper, which the Grand Duke places on her foot, much to Lady Tremaine's shock. Cinderella and the Prince are married, and share a kiss as they set off in a carriage for their honeymoon.

####Cinderella####
Ella, the kindhearted daughter of a wealthy merchant, lives happily with her parents, until her mother falls ill and dies. On her deathbed, she asks her daughter to always have courage and be kind. Years later, Ella's father marries the widowed Lady Tremaine, who, along with her own two daughters, Drisella and Anastasia, moves into his house. When he leaves on business, Lady Tremaine reveals her cruel and jealous nature, forcing Ella to give up her bedroom to the stepsisters and move into the attic. During his trip, Ella's father unexpectedly dies, and Lady Tremaine dismisses the household staff to save money, forcing all the chores upon her stepdaughter. Seeing her face covered in cinders after sleeping by the fireplace, Ella's stepfamily mockingly dubs her "Cinderella".

Distraught by her stepfamily's mistreatment of her, Ella rides off into the woods, where she meets Kit, the crown prince, who introduces himself as a palace apprentice. They take a liking to each other, but part without him learning her name. Later, hoping to see Ella again, Kit persuades his terminally ill father, who urges him to marry a princess, to invite all the inhabitants of the kingdom, including every eligible maiden, to the upcoming royal ball.

On the night of the ball, Ella, also wanting to meet Kit again, attempts to join her stepfamily wearing a refashioned dress of her mother's, but they ruin her dress and leave her behind. Running into the garden in tears, Ella meets an old beggar woman, who reveals herself to be her fairy godmother, and magically transforms a pumpkin into a carriage, mice into horses, lizards into footmen, and a goose into the coachman. She then turns Ella's ripped dress into an exquisite ball gown, and gives her a pair of glass slippers. As Ella departs, the Fairy Godmother warns her the magic will end at the last stroke of midnight, and casts a final spell to prevent Ella's stepfamily from recognizing her.

At the ball, Kit is delighted to see Ella and gives her the first dance, to the displeasure of the Grand Duke, who wants him to marry Princess Chelina of Zaragoza for political reasons. Although surprised at his true identity, Ella bonds with Kit, but before she can tell him her name, the clock chimes midnight and she flees the palace, losing one of her glass slippers. The Grand Duke pursues her, but Ella manages to break away right before the magic dissipates. Upon returning home, she hides the remaining glass slipper under the floorboards.

Soon the King dies, but before that he allows Kit to marry Ella. As the new king, Kit issues a proclamation professing his love for the “mystery princess” and requests she present herself. Ella hurries to retrieve the slipper to prove her identity, but Lady Tremaine finds it first and attempts to blackmail Ella into making her a head of the royal household after marrying Kit in exchange. After Ella refuses, Lady Tremaine locks her in the attic and breaks the slipper, bringing its remains to the Grand Duke and revealing the truth to him. He agrees to make Lady Tremaine a countess and secure advantageous marriages for her daughters if she keeps Ella hidden forever.

Unaware of these developments, Kit orders the Grand Duke and the Captain of the Guard to find the “mystery princess” by trying the intact slipper on every woman in the kingdom. At Tremaine's house, the shoe fits neither stepsister, and the company prepares to depart until they hear Ella singing in the attic. Kit, who has secretly accompanied the group, commands the Captain to investigate, forcing Lady Tremaine to release her. Ella successfully tries on the slipper and, as she leaves with Kit, forgives her stepmother. Soon after, Lady Tremaine, her daughters, and the Grand Duke leave the kingdom permanently, while Ella and Kit marry and become its most beloved monarchs, ruling with the same courage and kindness that she had promised her mother years ago.

####City of Angels####
In Los Angeles, California, Seth is one of many angels who watch over humans, protecting them in unseen ways. His main responsibility is to appear to those who are close to death and guide them to the next life.

During this task, Seth and one of his fellow angels, Cassiel, ask people what their favorite thing in life was. Despite these daily encounters, they have trouble understanding human beings and their ways, as angels lack human senses.

While waiting to escort a man undergoing heart surgery to the other world, Seth is impressed by the vigorous efforts of the surgeon, Maggie Rice, to save the ill-fated man's life and her sincere anguish at her failure to do so. Seth soon becomes focused on Maggie and becomes visible to her. They develop a connection, which soon turns to mutual attraction, although Maggie is already involved with one of her colleagues, Jordan Ferris.

Seth then meets Nathaniel Messinger, one of Maggie's patients, who senses Seth's presence. He tells him that he, too, had once been an angel. But, as free will is granted equally to mortals and angels, he decided to become human by "falling". Seth begins to consider being with Maggie, and she learns that he is an angel.


Seth becomes human by jumping from the top of a skyscraper. Immediately upon awakening, he starts to experience many  human feelings and sensations that he had never been able to understand, beginning with physical pain. As a human, Seth heads to the hospital to see Maggie but is told she has gone to her uncle's mountain cabin at Lake Tahoe.

Penniless and naïve, he cannot pay for the journey and gets mugged. He eventually hitches a ride to Lake Tahoe and appears, soaked and cold, at Maggie's doorstep. She realizes he has become mortal for her love, and they have sex. The next morning, as Seth is showering, Maggie rides her bicycle to a local store. On her way back, happy and fulfilled, she rides her bicycle with her eyes closed and her arms wide open. Her happiness is cut short when she fails to notice a logging truck crossing her path and is gravely wounded in the collision.

Seth senses that Maggie is in trouble and runs to her aid. He arrives in time for her to tell him she sees the angel who has come to accompany her. Although Seth can no longer see angels, he senses one nearby and frantically begs Maggie not to look at him/her. She tells him she is not afraid anymore and that when they ask her what her favorite thing in life was, she will say it was Seth, and she then dies.

Grieving and alone, Seth is visited by Cassiel. He asks if he is being punished for becoming human, which Cassiel assures him is not the case. Sometime later, Seth expresses his joy in being human and the fact that he has accepted his new life by running into the ocean, feeling the waves at dawn, in sight of the angels.

####Darby O'Gill and the Little People####
Darby O'Gill and his daughter, Katie, live in Rathcullen, a small Irish town, where Darby is the caretaker for Lord Fitzpatrick's estate. Darby continually tries to catch a tribe of leprechauns, particularly their king, Brian Connors.

Lord Fitzpatrick retires Darby, replacing him with a young Dubliner named Michael McBride. Darby begs Michael not to tell Katie he has been replaced, and he reluctantly agrees. While chasing Fitzpatrick's horse, Cleopatra, which is actually a "pooka", Darby is captured by Brian and the leprechauns and taken to their mountain lair, Knocknasheega. Brian has brought Darby there to prevent Katie from learning he lost his job. Darby cannot leave Knocknasheega as a consequence.

Darby tricks the leprechauns into opening the mountain and leaving by playing "The Fox Chase" on Brian's Stradivarius violin. Darby escapes, and expecting Brian to pursue him, later engages him in a drinking game with a jug of "poitín", allowing him to capture the leprechaun at sunrise, when his magic has no effect. Since Darby has caught him, Brian grants him three wishes. Brian tries to trick Darby into making additional wishes, but Darby recalls from their previous encounter that wishing for a fourth forfeits them all. Darby's first wish is for Brian to stay by his side for two weeks or until Darby runs out of wishes. Darby tries to show Michael the King whilst he's trapped in a sack, but Michael sees only a rabbit, Darby accidentally wishes that Michael could see Brian, which the fairy king grants with the caveat that "He does see me, he sees me as a rabbit".

Pony Sugrue, the town bully, decides to try to take Michael's new job and Katie for himself. Pony's mother, Sheelah, tells Katie about Darby's retirement, causing Katie to angrily confront Darby and Michael. When Cleopatra has gotten loose again, Katie chases her to Knocknasheega. Darby later finds her stricken with a deadly fever. A banshee appears and summons the Dullahan on a death coach to transport Katie's soul. Brian sadly grants Darby's third wish to take Katie's place. Inside the death coach, Brian consoles Darby, then tricks him into wishing he would have Brian's company in the afterlife. This counts as a fourth wish and Brian voids all his others. Darby is freed from the death coach and returns to Katie, who makes a full recovery. Michael later confronts and humiliates Pony at the pub. Michael and Katie fall in love with Darby's approval.

####Earthbound####
Husband and wife Nick (Warner Baxter) and Ellen (Andrea Leeds) go mountain climbing in Switzerland, where Nick is murdered, becoming an "earthbound" ghost. Only after his murderer confesses is Nick's ghost freed.

####Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind####
After a fight, Joel Barish discovers that his girlfriend, Clementine Kruczynski, has had her memories of him erased by the New York City firm Lacuna. Heartbroken, he decides to undergo the same procedure. In preparation, he records a tape for Lacuna, recounting his memories of their volatile relationship.

The Lacuna employees work on Joel's brain as he sleeps in his apartment so that he will wake up with no memory of the procedure. One employee, Patrick, leaves to see Clementine; since her procedure, he has been using Joel's and Clementine's memories as a guide for seducing her. While the procedure runs on Joel's brain, technician Stan and secretary Mary party and have sex.

Joel re-experiences his memories of Clementine as they are erased, starting with their last fight. As he reaches earlier, happier memories, he realizes that he does not want to forget her. His mental projection of Clementine suggests that Joel hide her in memories that do not involve her. This halts the procedure, but Stan calls his boss, Howard, who arrives and restarts it. Joel comes to his last remaining memory of Clementine: the day they first met, on a beach in Montauk. As the memory crumbles around them, Clementine tells Joel to meet her in Montauk.

In Joel's apartment, while Stan is outside, Mary tells Howard she is in love with him and they kiss. Howard's wife arrives, and, from the street, sees them through the window. Furious, she tells Howard to tell Mary the truth: that Mary and Howard previously had an affair, and that Mary had her memories erased. Disgusted, Mary steals the Lacuna records and mails them to the patients, including Joel and Clementine.

Joel wakes up, his memories of Clementine erased. He impulsively goes to Montauk and meets Clementine on the train home. They are drawn to each other and go on a date to the frozen Charles River in Boston. Joel drives Clementine home and Patrick sees them, realizing they have found each other again. Joel and Clementine receive their Lacuna records and listen to their tapes. They are shocked by the bitter memories they had of each other, and almost separate a second time, but agree to try again.

####For Heaven's Sake####
Angels Charles and Arthur try to convince a young cherub named Item to stop waiting to be born to Lydia and Jeff Bolton, her parents who she has personally selected. The Boltons are too busy with their theater work to start a family and are also drifting apart, as Lydia wants to have a child but Jeff convinces her to put their careers first.

When Item proves adamant, Charles tries to help by taking human form as "Slim" Charles, a supposedly rich Montanan, and encountering the Boltons at a racetrack. Jeff sees a potential financial backer (an "angel" in theatrical slang) for his next play, so he asks his playwright Daphne Peters to try to convince Charles to invest in the production, not knowing that Charles does not have any money. Jeff's usual backer Tex Henry appears and draws cards with Charles to determine who will make the investment, and Tex wins.

Charles begins to enjoy human vices. When Daphne's former actor boyfriend Tony Clark returns for her, Charles punches him. Charles also starts playing modern music on his harp and drinking, but Arthur disapproves.

Charles has not completely forgotten his mission. He arranges a lavish party to celebrate the Boltons' eighth anniversary, but it does not work as planned. The Boltons decide to break up, and Charles is taken to the mental hospital, where he admits that he is an angel. When Lydia develops a sudden craving for peanuts, Jeff realizes that she is pregnant (with Item), and they reconcile.

####Forever, Darling####
After five years of marriage, chemical engineer Lorenzo Xavier Vega (Desi Arnaz) tends to neglect his wife Susan (Lucille Ball) in favor of his work. When she wishes aloud that she had a more attentive spouse, her Guardian Angel – coincidentally the mirror image of her favorite movie star (James Mason) – appears.

The angel advises Susan to take a greater interest in Lorenzo's career, so she agrees to accompany him on a camping trip to test the revolutionary new insecticide he's developed. However, Susan's dream of a second honeymoon turns into a nightmare when everything that possibly could go wrong does. She becomes determined to save her marriage before it's too late.

####Ghost####
Banker Sam Wheat and his girlfriend, artist Molly Jensen, renovate and move into a Manhattan loft with the help of Sam's friend and co-worker Carl Bruner. One night, after attending the theater with Molly, Sam is killed when a mugger tries to steal his wallet. Sam is shocked to realize he is a ghost, but when angels appear to take his soul to Heaven, he returns to Molly.

Weeks later, in an effort to raise her spirits, Carl takes Molly for a walk. When the mugger enters their apartment in search of something a few minutes later, Sam scares their cat into attacking him and he flees. Sam follows the mugger, Willie Lopez, back to his apartment, and learns that the mugging was not random, when Willie makes a call to an unknown person promising to return to Sam and Molly's apartment to continue looking for what he was trying to find before.

After leaving Willie's apartment, Sam comes across Oda Mae Brown's psychic reading parlor where, along with her sisters, she takes people's money then pretends to contact their deceased loved ones. When Oda Mae hears Sam's voice, she realizes she must have inherited her mother's true psychic gift. After Sam's singing keeps her awake late one night, she agrees to tell Molly about Willie. Molly in turn goes to the police, but after they inform her there isn't a file for Willie and show her Oda Mae's lengthy criminal record that includes fraud charges and several aliases, she gives up, believing she has been deceived.

Sam is furious when he finds out it was Carl who had Willie attack him to obtain his book of bank passwords so he can transfer laundered money for drug dealers in several accounts into one account under the fictitious name "Rita Miller".

Determined to protect Molly, Sam enlists the help of a much more troubled and violent ghost (who he encountered earlier when following Willie to his apartment) to teach him how to move ordinary objects. After succeeding, Sam convinces Oda Mae (who is now able to hear other spirits talking) to pose as "Rita Miller" and withdraw the money, which he has her give to charity. Sam starts to haunt Carl, who becomes frantic to find the money once he realizes it has been withdrawn. Carl visits Molly and learns that Rita Miller is actually Oda Mae.

Sam warns Oda Mae and her sisters about Carl and Willie just before they arrive. Sam terrorizes Willie so much that Wille runs into the street screaming and is hit by a car and killed.
As Carl flees, demons drag Willie's soul to Hell.

After Molly calls the police, Oda Mae lets Sam possess her body and he slow-dances with Molly, unaware that using her body saps his energy. Carl forces his way into Molly's apartment while she and Oda Mae flee upstairs to another apartment that is under construction. Carl holds Molly at gunpoint and demands the money Oda Mae withdrew from the bank. Sam, now recovered, frees her and pushes a heavy scaffold onto Carl, crippling him. After Carl swings a metal hook at Sam and it swings back, it shatters a pane of glass that slides down a wooden shaft and impales Carl in the chest, killing him. The same demons that took away Willie's soul also take Carl's to Hell.

Sam finds Molly and Oda Mae and asks if they are alright. Both women are surprised and relieved to find they can hear and see him. As heavenly light shines down on him, Sam tells Oda Mae her mother would be proud of her and tells Molly he loves her. They share a kiss and Sam walks into the light to join the angels in heaven.

####Ghosts of Girlfriends Past####
Connor Mead is a famous photographer and womanizer. After breaking up with three women simultaneously on a conference call to save time, he travels to his late uncle Wayne's estate to attend the wedding of his brother Paul to Sandra. There, he becomes reacquainted with Jenny Perotti, the only girl who captured his heart. After delivering a drunken speech at the rehearsal dinner, Connor is visited by the ghost of the inveterate playboy Wayne, who warns Connor that he will be visited by three ghosts who will lead him through his romantic past, present, and future.

The first is the "Ghost of Girlfriends Past" in the form of Allison, his first lover. They revisit scenes from his past, focusing on his relationship with Jenny. She and Connor were very close at school; she gave him his first instant camera which he used to take her picture, promising to keep it forever. By middle school, they were on the verge of romance, but Connor's hesitation at a dance caused Jenny to dance with and kiss another boy.

Wayne advised a heartbroken Connor to avoid romance at all costs in order not to feel such pain again, and began to teach him his techniques as a pickup artist. When he next saw Jenny, he ignored her in favor of Allison. Several years later, Connor and Jenny met again and rekindled their romance. After spending the night together, Connor realized that he was falling in love and panicked, leaving Jenny to wake up alone and broken-hearted.

Back in the present, Connor accidentally destroys the wedding cake and fails to reconcile with Jenny. He is confronted by the "Ghost of Girlfriends Present" in the form of his assistant Melanie, who shows him the other members of the wedding party making fun of his shallow lifestyle. Paul expresses hope that he will someday improve, while Jenny is being comforted by Brad, which upsets Connor. Melanie and his newly-jilted trio of lovers discuss his lack of empathy.

Sandra hears of Connor's accidental revelation that Paul slept with one of her bridesmaids early in their relationship, and furiously confronts Paul. A returned Connor attempts to mend the situation, but Paul tells him to leave. He is visited by the "Ghost of Girlfriends Future", who takes him forward in time to see that Jenny marries Brad while Paul remains alone. Further in the future, Paul is the only mourner at Connor's funeral. Wayne appears and tells Connor that this is his fate if he continues on the same path, pushing him into the grave to be buried by his many ex-girlfriends.

Waking up in bed, Connor is relieved to find it is early on the day of the wedding, but discovers that Sandra has called it off and departed. Intercepting her car, Connor convinces her to forgive Paul, saying that the pain of heartbreak is outweighed by the regret of never risking one's heart in the first place. At the restored festivities--where he serves as wedding photographer--Connor reconciles with Jenny by showing her the picture he still carries of her. They kiss and dance in the snow to the same song Connor once hesitated to ask her to dance to.

His work complete, Uncle Wayne strikes out with the Ghost of Girlfriends Future, tries to hit on Melanie before her corporeally-present counterpart dances with Brad, and is finally rejected by Allison, the Ghost of Girlfriends Past, who still appears 16.

####A Guy Named Joe####
Pete Sandidge is the reckless pilot of a North American B-25 Mitchell bomber flying out of England during World War II. group=Note Wounded after an attack by an enemy fighter, Pete has his crew bail out before going on to bomb the carrier and then crash into the sea.

Pete then finds himself walking in clouds, where he first recognizes an old friend, Dick Rumney. Pete suddenly becomes uneasy, remembering that Dick went down with his aircraft in a fiery crash. As Pete processes where he is, Dick ushers him to a meeting with "The General", who gives him an assignment. He is to be sent back to Earth, where a year has elapsed, to pass on his experience and knowledge to Ted Randall at flight school, then in the South Pacific, where Ted is a Lockheed P-38 Lightning fighter pilot. Ted's commanding officer turns out to be Al Yackey.

The situation becomes complicated when Ted meets the still-grieving Dorinda, now a ferry pilot with the Womens Airforce Service Pilots in New Guinea.refn|No WASPs flew outside the continental United States during World War II.|group=Note Al encourages Dorinda to give the young pilot a chance. Dorinda and Ted gradually fall in love; Ted proposes to her and she accepts, much to Pete's jealous dismay.

When Dorinda finds out from Al that Ted has been given an extremely dangerous assignment to destroy the largest Japanese ammunition dump in the Pacific, she steals his aircraft. Pete guides her in completing the mission and returning to the base to Ted's embrace. Pete accepts what must be and walks away, his job done.

####Happy Accidents####
Ruby Weaver is weary of her long history of failed relationships with men when she meets Sam Deed in a park. But after the two fall in love, Ruby becomes suspicious of Sam's past, his obsession with a "Chrystie Delancey", and "causal effect". Under pressure from her, he finally explains that he is really from the year 2470 and is what he calls a "back traveler". Ruby initially ignores this story, but after Sam's persistence, she begins to wonder. She takes him to see her therapist Meg Ford. Ruby becomes worried as to Sam's sanity when he reveals that everything he has done was a deliberate attempt to change her life. In the end, both Deed "and" Ford turn out to be time travelers and the fatal accident that would have killed Ruby is avoided.

####Heaven Can Wait####
Joe Pendleton, a backup quarterback for the American football team Los Angeles Rams, is looking forward to leading his team to the Super Bowl. While he is riding his bicycle through a tunnel, an overzealous guardian angel on his first assignment, known only as The Escort, sees a large truck heading into the other end of the tunnel towards Joe. The Escort plucks Joe out of his body early in the mistaken belief that Joe was about to be killed.

Once in the afterlife, Joe refuses to believe that his time was up, and upon investigation, Mr. Jordan (the Escort's supervisor) discovers that Joe was going to just narrowly miss the truck and he was not destined to die until March 20, 2025, at 10:17 AM. Unfortunately, his body has already been cremated, so a new body must be found for him. After rejecting several possible men who are about to die, Joe is persuaded to accept the body of a multi-millionaire industrialist. Leo Farnsworth has just been drugged and drowned in his bathtub by his cheating gold digger wife Julia Farnsworth and her lover Tony Abbott, Farnsworth's personal secretary.

Julia and Tony are confused when Leo reappears alive and well, and Farnsworth's domestic staff is confused by the changes in some of his habits and tastes. Still obsessed with his football destiny, Farnsworth/Joe buys the Rams to lead them to the Super Bowl as their quarterback. To succeed, he must first convince and then secure the help of a longtime friend and trainer Max Corkle to get his new body in shape. At the same time, he falls in love with Betty Logan, an environmental activist, whom he met when she came to his doorstep to protest the original Farnsworth's corporate policies.

With the Rams about to play in the Super Bowl, all the characters face a crisis. Mr. Jordan informs Joe that he must give up Farnsworth's body as well. Joe resists but hints to Betty that she might someday meet someone else, possibly another quarterback, and should think of him. Julia and Abbott continue their murderous plans, and Abbott finally shoots Farnsworth/Joe dead. The Rams are forced to start Tom Jarrett, another quarterback, in the climactic game. A detective, Lieutenant Krim, interrogates the suspects while they watch the game on television. With the help of Corkle, he gets Julia and Abbott to incriminate each other.

After a brutal hit on the field, Jarrett is killed. With Mr. Jordan's help, Joe occupies Jarrett's body and leads the Rams to victory. During the team's postgame celebration, Corkle finds Joe, and when he realizes that it is him, they share an emotional embrace. As Joe is being interviewed on television, Mr. Jordan tells him that, to live as Tom Jarrett, he will have to lose the memories of his life as Joe Pendleton. As Mr. Jordan disappears, Tom/Joe becomes disoriented. Corkle goes to find Joe later and is crestfallen to realize that Joe has "left" Tom.

Tom bumps into Betty while leaving the stadium. They strike up a conversation, and each appears to recognize the other, but they do not know how. The lights go out in the stadium as they exit the venue, and Tom says something that reminds Betty of Farnsworth/Joe. Looking into his eyes, Betty remembers what he said to her before and whispers "You're the quarterback." Tom asks her to go with him for coffee, and she accepts.

####Hello Again####
Long Island housewife Lucy Chadman is in the midst of a tarot card reading by her occult sister, Zelda. Just as Zelda exclaims something is going to happen, Lucy begins to choke to death on a South Korean chicken ball. The film shows the difficulty of Lucy's loved ones, including Zelda, had in coping with her death. But the grief turns to excitement when Zelda receives a book of spells called "The Wisdom of Catagonia". Within the book Zelda finds a spell that requires perfect astronomical timing—the moon, the earth, and the dog star must form a perfect isosceles triangle. Zelda performs the spell and Lucy appears.

Lucy begins to reacquaint herself with living and with her family who are shocked to see her alive again, one year later, and soon discovers that she cannot simply pick her life back up where she left off. She returns to find her widower husband has sold their home and married her greedy and double-crossing friend from college. Meanwhile, her son has opened his own successful restaurant and married, instead of going to Columbia.

When she returns to the hospital in which she died, the emergency room doctor who tried to revive her begins to fall for her. Zelda confides in the doctor that if Lucy does not find love by the next full moon, she will have to go back to the spirit world. He does not believe Zelda. Eventually, the press finds out that Lucy came back from the dead, and plague her, her family, and the hospital the ER doctor works at. Her college friend becomes jealous of her media attention and the attention Lucy is getting from Mr. Chadman. She holds a news conference of her own and tells the media Lucy made the whole thing up—claiming that Lucy used tetrodotoxin as a means to fake her own death. Lucy does not defend herself, as she sees this as an opportunity to rid herself and her friends of the media. Instead, the doctor gets fired, her sister's occult store is vandalized and she is hated by almost everyone, except her family. She decides to end the debacle once and for all by tricking her college friend into admitting she lied about Lucy faking her death in front of the media at a party the hospital is having. Lucy, the doctor, and her family walk away happily. As the credits roll, we see that both Lucy and Zelda get married and have children with their new loves. Lucy's son also becomes a father.

####Here Comes Mr. Jordan####
On May 11, 1941, boxer and amateur pilot Joe Pendleton, affectionately known as "the Flying Pug", flies his small aircraft to his next fight in New York City, but crashes when a control cable severs. His soul is retrieved by 7013, an officious angel who assumed that Joe could not have survived. Joe's manager, Max "Pop" Corkle, has his body cremated. In the afterlife, the records show his death was a mistake; he was supposed to live for 50 more years. The angel's superior, Mr. Jordan, confirms this, but since there is no more body, Joe will have to take over a newly dead corpse. Jordan explains that a body is just something that is worn, like an overcoat; inside, Joe will still be himself. Joe insists that it be someone in good physical shape, because he wants to continue his boxing career.

After Joe turns down several "candidates", Jordan takes him to see the body of a crooked, extremely wealthy banker and investor named Bruce Farnsworth, who has just been drugged and drowned in a bathtub by his wife Julia and his secretary, Tony Abbott. Joe is reluctant to take over a life so unlike his previous one, but when he sees the murderous pair mockingly berating Bette Logan, whose father's name has been misused by Farnsworth to sell worthless securities, he changes his mind and agrees to take over Farnsworth's body.#tag:ref|The audience continues to see Montgomery as Pendleton, but everyone in the film, including his wife and secretary (who are astonished to see that the murder was not successful after all), see and hear Farnsworth.|group=Note

As Farnsworth, Joe repays all the investors and has Bette's father exonerated. He sends for Corkle and convinces him that he is Joe (by playing his saxophone just as badly as he did in his previous incarnation). With Farnsworth's money to smooth the way, Corkle trains him and arranges a bout to decide who will next fight the current heavyweight champion, but Jordan returns to warn Joe that, while he is destined to be the champion, it cannot happen that way. Joe has just enough time to tell Bette, with whom he has fallen in love, that if a stranger (especially if he is a boxer) approaches her, to give him a chance. Then he is shot by Tony. While Joe returns to a ghostly existence, Farnsworth's body is hidden, with everyone believing Farnsworth has simply disappeared. Corkle hires a private investigator to find him.

Accompanied by Jordan, Joe goes to retrieve his lucky saxophone he left on Farnsworth's piano and finds the police conducting a group interrogation. Corkle, talking to himself, wanders the room looking for Joe or Jordan. Corkle has explained about Joe, Mr. Jordan and the body-switching, to the police detective (Donald MacBride) who thinks he is a nut. Joe manages to mentally nudge Corkle into turning on the radio to hear the championship fight and hears that Murdock has collapsed from a slight grazing punch. Jordan reveals that the boxer was shot by gamblers because he refused to throw the fight. Joe takes over Murdock's body and wins the title. Back at the mansion, Corkle hears one of the radio announcers mention a saxophone hanging by the ringside and seeing the saxophone gone from the room, realizes Joe has assumed Murdock's body.

Corkle races down to the dressing room. There, Joe passes along information from Jordan that Farnsworth's body is in a refrigerator in the basement of the mansion. Corkle tells the detective, who promptly has Julia and Tony arrested. As Murdock, Joe fires his old, crooked manager and hires Corkle. Jordan reveals to Joe that this is his destiny; he can be Murdock and live his life.

Healing the gunshot wound and at the same time removing Joe's memory of his past life, Jordan hangs around for a bit longer until Bette arrives. She wanted to see Corkle, but runs into Murdock instead. The pair feel they have met before. The two go off together, while Jordan smiles and says "So long, champ."

####I Married a Witch####
Two witches in colonial Salem, Jennifer and her father Daniel, are burned at the stake after being denounced by Puritan Jonathan Wooley. Their ashes were buried beneath a tree to imprison their evil spirits. In revenge, Jennifer curses Wooley and all his male descendants, dooming them always to marry the wrong woman.

Centuries pass. Generation after generation, Wooley men marry cruel, shrewish women. Finally, in 1942, lightning splits the tree, freeing the spirits of Jennifer and Daniel. They discover Wallace Wooley, living nearby and running for governor, on the eve of marrying the ambitious and spoiled Estelle Masterson, whose father J.B. just happens to be Wooley's chief political backer.

Initially, Jennifer and Daniel manifest themselves as white vertical smoky "trails", occasionally hiding in empty, or sometimes not-so-empty, bottles of alcohol.  Jennifer persuades Daniel to create a human body for her so she can torment Wallace. Daniel needs a fire to perform the spell, so he burns down a building, appropriately enough, the Pilgrim Hotel. This serves dual purposes, as Jennifer uses it to get the passing Wallace to rescue her from the flames.

Jennifer tries hard to seduce Wallace without magic. Even though he is strongly attracted to her, he refuses to put off his marriage. She concocts a love potion, but her scheme goes awry when a painting falls on her. Wallace revives her by giving her the drink she had intended for him.

Daniel conjures himself a body. Then he and Jennifer crash the wedding, though they are at cross purposes. Daniel hates all Wooleys and tries to prevent his daughter from helping one of them. His attempts at interference land him in jail, too drunk to remember the spell to turn Wallace into a frog. Meanwhile, Estelle finds the couple embracing and the wedding is called off. Outraged, J.B. promises to denounce the candidate in all his newspapers. Wallace finally admits that he loves Jennifer, and they elope.

Jennifer then works overtime with her witchcraft to rescue Wallace's political career. She conjures up little clouds of brainwashing white smoke that "convince" every voter to support Wallace, and he is elected in a landslide, where even his opponent doesn't vote for himself. The unanimous vote for him convinces Wallace that she is a witch. In disgust, Daniel strips his daughter of her magical powers, and vows to return her to the tree that imprisoned them.

In a panic, Jennifer interrupts Wallace's victory speech, imploring him to help her escape. Unfortunately, the taxi they get into to get away is driven by Daniel, who takes them in an airborne ride back to the tree. At the stroke of midnight, Wallace is left with Jennifer's lifeless body, while two plumes of smoke watch. Before they return to the tree, Jennifer asks to watch Wallace's torment. While Daniel gloats, Jennifer reclaims her body, explaining to Wallace, "Love is stronger than witchcraft." She quickly puts the top back on the bottle of liquor her father is hiding in, keeping him drunk and powerless. Years later, Wallace and Jennifer have children, and the housekeeper enters to complain about their youngest daughter, who enters pretending to ride a broom, to which Jennifer comments that "We're going to have trouble with that one."

####If Only####
Ian Wyndham (Nicholls) is a British businessman who lives with his American musician girlfriend, Samantha Andrews (Hewitt), in London. Taking us through a day in Ian and Samantha's life, the film opens by showing different events such as Samantha getting burnt on a kettle, Ian's watch breaking, Samantha getting Coca-Cola on her and Ian being interrupted by Samantha during an important meeting at work.

Samantha gets angry at Ian as he always treats her as his second priority and tells him that she just wants him to love her. Ian makes one last attempt to reconcile with Samantha. An angry Samantha gets into a taxi and asks Ian whether he is coming in or not. The taxi meets with an accident and Samantha dies. A heartbroken Ian goes back to his apartment, finds Samantha's notebook and opens it, finding a song she was working on. He falls asleep clutching the notebook close to him.

When he gets up the next morning, he hears Samantha talking and sees her in the bed right next to him. He is scared at first but after the initial confusion, Ian comes to the conclusion that the previous day must have been a dream. Ian feels happy to have Samantha by his side.

The events of the next day are similar to those he already experienced in the dream, although occurring at different times and in different ways. Ian is sure that he had a premonition and that the end of the day will be same and Samantha will die. Samantha gets Coca-Cola spilt on her. But Ian's watch remains in working order.  After talking to the taxi driver he realizes that the driver is the man from the dream who asks Ian to love Samantha.

After convincing her to come with him, they travel to Ian's rural home town. They climb a hill in the rain.  He asks her how she would spend her last day if she only had one left. She replies that she would spend it with him. He declares his love and they make love in a cabin. In the town below, the two have drinks and Ian tells Samantha about his father, who lost his beloved job before becoming an alcoholic and dying sometime later. The two travel back to London and Ian takes Samantha on the London Eye as another surprise. They then travel back to their apartment and Ian takes a page from her notebook and brings it to a nearby photocopying shop while Samantha travels to her concert with her violin. Before the show begins Ian gives the photocopied pages to an organizer. After the performance in which Samantha is a violinist, the organiser announces Samantha's name as the next performer. A nervous Samantha proceeds onto the stage as the orchestra begins to play the song printed on Ian's photocopied sheets. She sings the song she wrote for Ian in her notebook and the crowd burst into applause at her performance.

Instead of going to Tantra, the restaurant that Ian had made reservations for, they go to a more intimate restaurant that Samantha chooses, but Ian loves it as well.  Ian gifts her a bracelet with meaningful charms. They have a nice time. After the dinner, as both of them are standing outside of Tantra, where they ate in the dream, Ian tells Samantha why he loves her. As the taxi pulls over and Samantha gets in, she asks him again whether he is getting in or not. This time Ian gets in and sees that the cab driver is the same again. As the clock strikes 11, the taxi meets with an accident.

The same scene is repeated again, when Samantha's friend is shown running in the hospital corridor. Only this time, unlike the dream, its Samantha who is sitting and crying instead of Ian, implying that Ian died in the crash.

The film ends six months later, with Samantha packing up the apartment she shared with Ian while looking at his watch, and then performing onstage while wearing the bracelet that Ian gave her, with tears in her eyes but smiling, intercut with a scene of her finally getting to the top of the mountain that she tried to climb with Ian while stopping at the cabin that they stopped at.

####Isn't It Romantic####
Thanks to her negative mother who insists girls like them don't get loved, architect Natalie develops a strong hatred for romantic comedies at an early age. This is exacerbated by her low self-esteem and difficulty in finding love.

Being a pushover, Natalie's lack of self-confidence causes her co-workers to not respect her position as architect, but rather pawn off menial tasks on her. These include sending her for coffee and throwing out their rubbish.

Natalie's assistant Whitney, a fan of romantic comedies, debates their veracity with her. Natalie sees them as full of lies, crap pop songs, unrealistic, full of montages... Whitney argues that flaws are what make people beautiful. Natalie points out the clichés, their lack of diversity, always a gay best friend who has no life, voiceover train of thought of the protagonist and a slow-motion segment.

Whitney says that Natalie is friendzoning Josh and believes he, their co-worker and her close friend, is in love with Natalie. She dismisses the notion because she is overweight and Josh appears to spend all his time staring at a model on a billboard across the street.

One day Natalie, naively believing a guy is hitting on her, is knocked unconscious during an attempted mugging in the subway and finds herself trapped in the stereotypical romantic comedies she has come to despise. Natalie arrives to a totally transformed apartment, huge and full of beautiful new things.

Natalie's relationships radically change. Blake, a sexy billionaire client of her company, suddenly speaks with an Australian accent and develops a romantic interest in her. Her normally gruff neighbor Donny, who has always come across as a misogynist, becomes a flamboyant homosexual friend offering advice. Whitney becomes her enemy coworker, although her other coworkers respect her.

Although Josh seems to be the same as always, he uses the Heimlich maneuver to save the billboard model Isabella, who identifies herself as a "yoga ambassador". They seem to fall into love at first sight and enter into a relationship.

Desperate to return to her reality, Natalie deduces that in the tradition of romantic comedies, she can only leave by finding true love. She encourages a relationship with Blake, but when it turns sour, Natalie recognizes that she has feelings for Josh, who has become engaged to Isabella. She attempts to stop their wedding, but soon realizes that instead of loving another person, she needs to learn to first love herself. Following this revelation, Natalie gets into a car accident and loses consciousness.

Natalie wakes up in the real world, but with new self-confidence, which she uses to successfully propose an architectural idea to Blake. After reuniting with Josh, she learns that he has not been staring at the model, but at Natalie's reflection. They kiss and begin a relationship.

As Natalie prepares to head home, Whitney tells her that despite her dislike for romantic comedies, everything she just experienced has been comparable to one. Realizing that she has been in a romantic comedy the entire time, Natalie and the rest of the characters proceed to engage in a rendition of "Express Yourself".

####It Happened Tomorrow####
In the 1890s, Lawrence Stevens (Dick Powell) is an obituary writer unhappy in his job, who is given, by an elderly newspaper man named Pop Benson (John Philliber), a newspaper that has tomorrow's news.  He uses the paper to write stories and get the scoop on other reporters; but this also brings him under suspicion by Police Inspector Mulrooney (Edgar Kennedy), who wants to know how Stevens came by his knowledge of a robbery at a theater's box office during a performance, of which he read in the newspaper provided by Benson. Stevens and his new girlfriend Sylvia (Linda Darnell) &ndash; half of a clairvoyant act with her uncle Oscar Smith (Jack Oakie) &ndash; have a number of adventures, until her uncle mistakenly thinks that Stevens has consorted with his niece in her boarding house room.  The uncle attempts to intimidate Stevens into marrying her, not knowing that Stevens has come to him to ask for her hand.

Stevens gets another newspaper from Pop Benson, intending to use it to pick horses at the racetrack, to win enough money  to get married.  Unfortunately, he also reads a story about his own death that night, so he and Sylvia get married immediately and head off to the track with her uncle.  Stevens bets on winner after winner, amassing $60,000, which is then stolen on their way back to town.  They give chase but are arrested for speeding. Stevens hopes for more help from Benson, but learns that the old man died two days ago, even before Stevens received the first newspaper.

Stevens tries his best to avoid the hotel lobby where his death is supposed to take place, but circumstances keep pushing him in that direction.  He spots the man who stole his money and chases him on foot through the streets and over the rooftops, until they both fall through the chimney that leads to the very hotel lobby he's been trying to avoid. A gunfight breaks out, and the thief is shot and killed.  Because he has Stevens' wallet on him, he is at first identified as the newspaperman, and his newspaper prints an erroneous story saying that their star reporter has been killed. When a reporter finds out the truth, the newspaper has already hit the streets; and it is this edition that he had gotten from Pop.

Stevens does not die in the hotel lobby; he marries Sylvia and lives to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary.

####It's a Wonderful Life####
On Christmas Eve 1945, in Bedford Falls, New York, George Bailey contemplates suicide. The prayers of his family and friends reach Heaven, where guardian angel second class Clarence Odbody is assigned to save George in order to earn his wings. Clarence is shown flashbacks of George's life. He watches 12-year-old George rescue his younger brother Harry from drowning, leaving George deaf in his left ear.  George later prevents the pharmacist, Mr. Gower, from accidentally poisoning a customer's prescription.

In 1928, George plans a world tour before college. He is reintroduced to Mary Hatch, who has been enamored with him since childhood. When his father dies suddenly, George postpones his travel to settle the family business, Bailey Brothers Building and Loan. Avaricious board member Henry Potter, who controls most of the town, seeks to dissolve it, but the board votes to keep the Building and Loan open if George runs it. George acquiesces and works alongside his uncle Billy, giving his tuition to Harry with the understanding that Harry will run the business when he graduates.

Harry returns from college married and with a job offer from his father-in-law, and George resigns himself to running the Building and Loan. George and Mary rekindle their relationship and wed. They witness a run on the bank and use their honeymoon savings to keep the Building and Loan solvent. Under George, the company establishes Bailey Park, a housing development surpassing Potter's overpriced slums. Potter entices George with a $20,000/year job but, realizing that Potter's true intention is to close the Building and Loan, George rebuffs him.

On Christmas Eve 1945, the town prepares a hero's welcome for Harry who, as a U.S. Navy fighter pilot, was awarded the Medal of Honor for preventing a kamikaze attack on a troop transport. Billy goes to Potter's bank to deposit $8,000 of the Building and Loan's money. He taunts Potter with a newspaper headline about Harry, then absentmindedly wraps the cash in Potter's newspaper. Potter finds and keeps the money, while Billy cannot recall how he misplaced it. With a bank examiner reviewing the company's records, George realizes scandal and criminal charges will follow. Fruitlessly retracing Billy's steps, George berates him and takes out his frustration on Mary and their children. George appeals to Potter for a loan, offering his life insurance policy as collateral. Potter scoffs that George is worth more dead than alive, refuses to help, and phones the police.

George flees Potter's office, gets drunk at a bar, and prays for help. Suicidal, he goes to a nearby bridge, but before he can jump, Clarence dives into the river and George rescues him. When George wishes he had never been born, Clarence shows George a timeline in which he never existed. Bedford Falls is now Pottersville, an unsavory town occupied by sleazy entertainment venues, crime, and callous people. Mr. Gower was imprisoned for manslaughter because George was not there to stop him from poisoning the customer. George's mother does not know him. Uncle Billy was institutionalized after the Building and Loan failed. Bailey Park is a cemetery, where George discovers Harry's grave. Without George, Harry drowned as a child, and without Harry to save them, the troops aboard the transport ship were killed. George finds Mary, now a spinster, and when he grabs her and claims to be her husband she screams and runs.

George flees back to the bridge and begs Clarence for his life back. The original reality is restored, and a grateful George rushes home to await his arrest. Meanwhile, Mary and Billy have rallied the townspeople, who come into the Bailey home and donate more than enough to cover the missing money. Harry arrives and toasts George as "the richest man in town". Among the donations George finds a copy of "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer", a gift from Clarence and inscribed, "Remember, no man is a failure who has friends. Thanks for the wings!" When a bell on the Christmas tree rings, George's youngest daughter, Zuzu, explains that "every time a bell rings, an angel gets his wings." George looks upward smiling and says, "Atta boy, Clarence!"

####Just like Heaven####
Elizabeth Masterson, an emergency room physician in San Francisco whose work is everything, is in a car accident while on her way to a blind date at her sister's. Three months later, landscape architect David Abbott, needing a fresh start after his wife's death, takes a sublet on Elizabeth's apartment.

Elizabeth begins to appear in the apartment, and both are confused. She thinks he's a squatter, and he thinks she broke in. They soon realize she moves through walls and objects. Elizabeth doesn't know who she is, and insists she's not dead. David unsuccessfully tries to have her spirit exorcised.

David enlists the help of a psychic bookstore clerk, Darryl, who says Elizabeth isn't really dead. He also tells David he's clearly got a blocked heart, and needs to let go of the woman who was previously in his life. When Elizabeth says David should get over being dumped, he storms out, and Darryl tells Elizabeth to not disrespect the dead. She finds David and he explains about his wife.

As only David can see and hear her, others think he is hallucinating and talking to himself. Elizabeth asks him to help her discover who she really is. David talks to her neighbours but they didn't know her.

Checking a restaurant she recognizes, a man has a medical emergency, so Elizabeth helps David save his life. Suddenly, she remembers being a doctor, and they go to the nearest hospital, where it all comes flooding back. Dr. Fran, her mentor, takes him to Elizabeth,  who is in a coma. When David touches her hand, Elizabeth feels it, meaning she's still connected to her body.

Elizabeth's sister Abby arrives, and Dr. Brett notifies her that Elizabeth signed a DNR order. He asks Abby to sign off on disconnecting life support, and she says she'll consider it.

David and Elizabeth bond. When he takes her to a beautiful landscaped garden he designed, she tells him she senses she has been there before. In fact, she was dreaming of the garden (in the opening scenes of the film), while cat-napping during a long shift.

When David's told he's been offered a long term lease, he realises Elizabeth will be taken off life support. He tries to prevent it by going to Abby's to tell her that Elizabeth is communicating with him. While there, her niece Lily can see Elizabeth.

David begs Abby to keep her alive, but she has already signed the papers, with life support ending the next day. As a last ditch effort, David blurts out Abby's secret from her wedding day, freaking her out so she drives him out of her house.

Elizabeth opts to spend her last night with David in the apartment. The next morning, he is determined to prevent her death by stealing her body from the hospital. He enlists his friend/therapist Jack to help. It turns out Jack is Abby's former college boyfriend, and the two had setup David and Elizabeth for the blind date with Elizabeth for the night of the accident; David can see Elizabeth because they were meant to meet. He admits to Jack and Elizabeth that he loves her.

Security guards catch them trying to steal Elizabeth's body. As they pull Jack away from her, her breathing tube comes off. Elizabeth is now dying, and David frantically kisses her body, while her spirit fades away. Her heartbeat returns and she awakens from the coma. Elizabeth recognizes Abby, but not David, and he sadly leaves.

Sometime later, Elizabeth moves back into her apartment. Drawn to the roof, she finds David, who has transformed it into a landscaped garden. He reveals he'd gotten in using the spare key her spirit had shown him. When she asks for her key back, their hands touch, her memory of the events during her coma are restored, and they kiss happily.

The final scene fades away from the rooftop to show Darryl staring into a snow globe, happy with "seeing" how things have turned out.

####Just My Luck####
Ashley Albright works at Braden & Co. Public Relations and has an extremely fortunate life, experiencing recurring strokes of good fortune since childhood. In contrast, Jake Hardin experiences bad luck on a daily basis.

Jake is the unpaid US manager of the British band McFly. For weeks, he tries to get their demo CD to record label owner Damon Philips, hoping to get them discovered and become a music producer.

Jake sneaks into a masquerade ball put on by Ashley where he hopes to meet Phillips. During the ball, a fortune teller tells Ashley her luck will change. Failing to get Phillips' attention, Jake asks Ashley to dance. They kiss, switching their luck in the process.

Outside, Jake saves Phillips from being hit by a car. To repay him for saving his life, he takes the McFly demo and invites the band to his studio. Meanwhile, Ashley and Peggy are arrested because the neighbor she invited to be Peggy's date is a prostitute. Ashley is fired by Peggy and spends a night in jail.

The next day, Ashley learns her apartment is condemned due to a flood and mold. Staying with her friends Dana and Maggie she experiences more bad luck. She tracks down the fortune teller, who suggests someone needed her luck more. Ashley realizes the stranger she kissed has her luck.

Phillips is impressed with McFly and signs them. Ashley tracks down every male dancer hired to work the ball, kissing each of them. After this fails to restore her luck, hungry and overwhelmed, Ashley has a public breakdown at a diner where Jake is. Not recognizing her, he sympathizes with her frustration at constant bad luck, offering to find her a job. She takes his former job at the bowling alley, developing a friendship with him. When Jake is worried McFly doesn't have enough material for an upcoming gig at the Hard Rock Cafe, she introduces him to singer/songwriter Maggie. Impressed, he decides to use her song.

During a recording session, Ashley overhears Jake say he's been lucky ever since the masquerade ball. Realizing he was the masked dancer, she kisses him and leaves, finding her luck is back. She runs into Peggy, who is now engaged to Antonio and offers to rehire Ashley as the Vice President of Braden & Co. if she helps with a meeting that very night. Ashley then learns Maggie's song will no longer be performed at the concert.

Looking at a mirror she broke earlier, Ashley reflects on the cost of her good luck. Deciding to forego Peggy's rehiring offer, she goes to the concert where Jake and the band are having bad luck and may have to cancel the concert. Ashley kisses Jake and circumstances change, leading to a successful concert where Maggie's song is performed. Ashley realizes she's in love with Jake but doesn't wish to give him bad luck again. She decides to leave and live with her parents for a while.

Jake finds Ashley at Grand Central, realizing she is the woman from the ball. Since he used good luck to help others, Ashley argues she doesn't want to take it away. He points out she experienced good things even with bad luck and says he is willing to experience bad luck again if they are together. They kiss, switching their good and bad luck back and forth. Katy arrives and they simultaneously kiss her on each cheek, causing another luck transfer. She then wins a $25 lottery ticket. Jake and Ashley walk hand-in-hand, wondering if they will get used to living without luck and debating karma. Outside a construction crew accidentally break a pipe and water rains down on the two just as the movie ends.

####Ladyhawke####
In medieval Italy, Phillipe Gaston, a thief known as "The Mouse", is imprisoned in the dungeons of the evil Bishop of Aquila. Phillipe escapes, just in time to avoid execution. He is recaptured at an inn by the Bishop's guards, led by Captain Marquet. The former captain, Etienne Navarre, arrives, rescues him, and defeats Marquet and the guards. As Navarre and Phillipe flee on horseback, Navarre's hawk scatters the other guards, aiding the escape.

Navarre and Phillipe stay the night at a farmer's barn. Later, Phillipe tries to leave, but the farmer attempts to kill him. An enormous black wolf protects him by killing the farmer. Phillipe looks for Navarre in the barn, but discovers a beautiful young woman, dressed in Navarre's cloak, who walks away with the wolf.

In the morning, Navarre returns, reveals his intention to kill the Bishop, and asks Phillipe to help him get inside Aquila. Phillipe refuses, and Navarre ties him to a tree. That night, Phillippe meets the woman again and tricks her into cutting his bonds. The next day, he is captured by the Bishop's guards, who use him to set up an ambush for Navarre. During the ambush, Navarre and his hawk are each hit by a crossbow bolt, but Navarre manages to defeat the Bishop's guards and save Phillipe.

Navarre orders Phillipe to take the hawk, who is the worse injured of the two of them, and ride ahead to the ruined castle of a monk named Imperius for help. The hawk is sequestered in a room, but a curious Phillipe picks the lock and finds the mysterious woman inside, her chest struck with the bolt. After tending to her wound, Imperius explains that she is Isabeau of Anjou, who had once refused the Bishop's unwelcome advances. After a drunken Imperius leaked the fact that Navarre and Isabeau had secretly wed, the enraged Bishop put the couple under a satanic curse. Isabeau becomes a hawk by day and Navarre a wolf by night; despite being always together, they are eternally apart. Just before dawn, Imperius' castle is invaded by the Bishop's soldiers; while escaping, Isabeau falls off a tower, but Phillipe is able to hold onto her for a moment, letting her go just as the sunrise turns her into a hawk so she can fly away.

When Navarre catches up, Imperius tells him that the curse can be broken if the couple faces the Bishop, both as humans, on "a day without a night and a night without a day". Navarre dismisses Imperius as an old drunk, and continues on his way to Aquila, intent on simply killing the Bishop for revenge. Now invested in the lovers' story, Phillipe volunteers to accompany them. After the group's perilous encounters with a wolf-trapper and a frozen river, Phillipe saves Navarre's life, earns his friendship, and convinces him to try to break the curse before killing the Bishop.

At night, Imperius and Isabeau smuggle the Navarre-wolf into Aquila, while Phillipe swims back through the sewers to get inside the cathedral. Seeing no divine sign on the day that he and Isabeau are to appear as humans together, Navarre reverts to his original plan to kill the Bishop. He orders Imperius to euthanize the hawk should the cathedral bells ring, which would mean he had failed.

Phillipe infiltrates the cathedral and unlocks its doors. Navarre rides in and duels with Marquet. Suddenly noticing a solar eclipse through a window, Navarre realises Imperius was right. He tries to get back to Imperius, but fails to keep the guards from ringing the bell. Believing that Imperius has killed Isabeau, Navarre continues his fight and eventually kills Marquet.

As Navarre is about to execute the unarmed Bishop, a human Isabeau enters the cathedral and stops him. Together, she and Navarre face the Bishop and break the curse. The maddened Bishop tries to kill Isabeau, only to die by Navarre's sword. Isabeau and Navarre finally embrace in joy.

####Legend####
In order to cast the world into eternal night, the Lord of Darkness sends the goblin Blix to kill the unicorns in the forest near his castle and bring him their horns. Told by Darkness that the best bait is Innocence, Blix and his colleagues Pox and Blunder follow Princess Lili as she visits her forest-dwelling paramour, Jack in the Green. There Jack teaches Lili to speak to animals, then takes her blindfolded to a forest stream where he senses the unicorns will appear. When Lili holds out her hand to touch the stallion, Blix shoots him with a poison dart from his blowpipe and the unicorns flee. Jack is angry, but Lili laughs off his concern and issues a challenge by throwing her ring into a pond, declaring she will marry whoever finds it. While Jack dives in after the ring, the goblins track down the poisoned stallion and sever his alicorn, causing winter to descend. Lili runs off in terror, and Jack is barely able to break through the surface of the now-frozen pond.

Lili takes refuge in the cottage of a peasant family that is now frozen in time. While there, Lili sees the goblins test the alicorn's magic powers and overhears how she was the bait in their slaying of the stallion. She follows the goblins to a rendezvous with Darkness, who tells them the world cannot be cast into eternal night as long as the surviving mare still lives. Blunder unsuccessfully tries using the alicorn to overthrow Darkness and is sent into the castle's dungeon. Meanwhile, Jack, accompanied by the forest elf Honeythorn Gump, the fairy Oona, and the dwarves Brown Tom and Screwball, finds the mare mourning the lifeless stallion. Lamenting over his role in their current predicament, Jack apologizes to the mare, who communicates to him that the alicorn must be recovered and returned to the stallion by a great hero. Deciding Jack is that hero, the group leaves Brown Tom to guard the unicorns while Jack and the others retrieve a hidden cache of ancient weapons and armor. In their absence, Lili warns Brown Tom of the goblins coming back to kill the mare. He is then incapacitated by the goblins, who capture both Lili and the mare.

Upon returning, Jack and his group make their way to Darkness' castle. On the way, they are attacked by a swamp hag named Meg Mucklebones, but Jack defeats her by flattering her appearance and then decapitating her. At the castle, Jack's group falls into an underground prison cell, where they encounter Blunder, who is revealed to be a fairy gone astray, before he is dragged off by an ogre to be baked into a pie. Oona uses her magic to escape their cell and retrieves the keys to free the others.

Meanwhile, as Lili roams the castle seeking warmth and escape, a dark, dancing entity appears to tempt and turn her into a gothic version of herself. Darkness orchestrated this to claim her as his bride, and seemingly seduced, she agrees to wed him on condition that she will be the one to kill the mare in the upcoming ritual. Overhearing their conversation, Jack and Gump learn Darkness can be destroyed by daylight. After saving Blunder, the group takes the ogres' giant metal platters as makeshift mirrors to reflect sunlight into the chamber where the mare is to be sacrificed.

As the ritual begins, Lili tries to free the mare, but Darkness casts onto her a spell of sleep. Jack's group redirects the setting sun with the platters as he fights Darkness, finally wounding him with the stallion's alicorn right before the redirected sunlight shines into the room, blasting Darkness to the edge of the eternal void. Darkness warns them that because evil lurks in all beings, he will never truly be vanquished. Wavering in doubt, Jack finally severs the hands of Darkness, thus expelling him into the void. Gump then returns the stallion to life by magically reattaching its alicorn. With the stallion reunited with the mare, winter suddenly ends. Jack retrieves Lili's ring from the pond and places it on her finger, waking her from the spell.

####A Life Less Ordinary####
In Heaven, angels are tasked with ensuring that mortals on Earth find love. The "Captain", Gabriel, is upset at reviewing the file of angel partners O'Reilly and Jackson, all of whose recent cases have ended in divorce or misery. He introduces a radical new incentive: if their next pair do not fall, and stay, in love, O'Reilly and Jackson must stay on earth forever, which does not appeal to them.

Celine Naville is the spoiled twenty-something daughter of a wealthy businessman, and Robert Lewis is a janitor employed in her father's company. After being fired to be replaced by a robot, he drowns his sorrows at a local bar. His girlfriend, Lily, later tells him she is leaving him for an aerobics instructor.

O'Reilly and Jackson pose as collection agents to repossess Robert's things and evict him from his apartment. Robert storms to Mr. Naville's office. When Celine introduces herself, Robert decides to kidnap her. He drives her to a remote cabin in the California woods. Celine easily slips free but decides to stick around. She stays for the adventure and revenge against her father, suggesting that they extort a huge ransom.

O'Reilly and Jackson pose as bounty hunters and contract with Naville to retrieve Celine and kill Robert. Robert's first attempt to collect the ransom fails, but Celine encourages him. They go out to a bar, get drunk and sleep together.

Robert makes a second demand for the ransom, with a letter written in Celine's blood. Naville gives O'Reilly and Jackson the money, and they go to meet Robert in the forest. To their disappointment, Robert appears willing to let Celine go in exchange for the money before O'Reilly stops his getaway.

While O'Reilly and Celine wait by their car, Jackson takes Robert into the woods to execute him. Before he can, Celine decks O'Reilly, runs into the woods, and knocks Jackson out with a shovel. As Robert and Celine drive away, O'Reilly attacks them. To escape, Robert and Celine jump from the car, which careens off a cliff, with the money still inside.

Since they are short of money, Celine decides to rob a bank. The robbery goes smoothly until a security guard shoots at Celine. Robert pushes her out of the way, taking a bullet in the thigh. Celine hurriedly drives him back to the city, to be operated on by Elliott, a dentist that had previously proposed marriage to her. A little later, when Robert regains consciousness, he is appalled to see Celine playing a sexual role-playing game with Elliott. A fight breaks out, and Robert knocks Elliot unconscious. As they drive away, Celine explains that she only agreed to Elliot's request so that he would help Robert. Hurt, Robert gets out of the car and walks away.

To get them back together, Jackson writes a love poem in Robert's handwriting and sends it to Celine. Overcome, she runs back to Robert and says he has won her heart with the poem. O'Reilly and Jackson's plan seems to work until Robert says that he has not written the poem. Humiliated, Celine runs out again. Robert runs after her, but is too late: O'Reilly and Jackson, believing they have failed, decide to make their Earth-bound lives bearable by kidnapping Celine for ransom.

Robert tracks Celine to their hideout. He knocks O'Reilly down and, struggling with Jackson, tells Celine he loves her. The door is kicked down by Naville's butler, Mayhew, who shoots the two angels in the head. Leaving Celine locked in the trunk, Naville and Mayhew drive Robert and the two angels' bodies to the cabin, planning to fake a murder-suicide.

In Heaven, Gabriel's secretary begs him to intervene. Gabriel eventually complies and phones God. A neighbour releases Celine from the truck. Taking his gun, she runs to the cabin and confronts her father, while Mayhew holds Robert at gunpoint. Celine shoots Mayhew in the shoulder.

O'Reilly and Jackson later come back to life. After Gabriel congratulates them on a successful case, the two angels embrace as they prepare to return home. Robert and Celine retrieve the suitcase full of money, and with it, they settle in a castle in Scotland.

####The Little Mermaid####
In the kingdom of Atlantica, located under the Atlantic Ocean, Ariel, a 16-year old mermaid princess, is dissatisfied with her underwater life, but is fascinated by the human world. With her best friend Flounder, Ariel visits Scuttle, a seagull who gives Ariel inaccurate information about humans, and collects human artifacts in her grotto. She ignores the warnings of her father King Triton, the ruler of Atlantica, that contact between merpeople and humans is forbidden. One night, Ariel, Flounder, and Sebastian, a crab who serves as Triton's adviser and court composer, travel to the ocean surface to watch a birthday celebration for Prince Eric. Ariel falls in love with Eric at first sight. Suddenly a violent storm arrives, wrecking the ship, and knocking Eric overboard. Ariel rescues Eric and brings him to shore. She sings to him, but leaves just as he regains consciousness to avoid being discovered. Fascinated by the memory of her voice, Eric vows to find the girl who saved and sang to him, and Ariel vows to find a way to join him in his world. Discovering a change in Ariel's behavior, Triton questions Sebastian about her behavior and learns of her love for Eric. An outraged Triton travels to Ariel's grotto and destroys her collection of artifacts in a misguided attempt to protect her. After a remorseful Triton leaves, two blue eels named Flotsam and Jetsam convince Ariel to visit Ursula the sea witch, who plans to use Ariel as ransom to get Triton's magical trident.

Ursula makes a deal with Ariel to transform her into a human for three days in exchange for Ariel's voice, which Ursula puts in a nautilus shell. Within these three days, Ariel must receive "True love's kiss" from Eric. If Ariel gets Eric to kiss her, she will remain a human permanently. Otherwise, she will transform back into a mermaid and belong to Ursula. Ariel accepts and is then given human legs and taken to the surface by Flounder and Sebastian. Eric finds Ariel on the beach and takes her to his castle, unaware that she is the one who had rescued him earlier. Ariel spends time with Eric, and at the end of the second day, they almost kiss but are thwarted by Flotsam and Jetsam. Furious at Ariel's close success, Ursula disguises herself as a young woman named Vanessa and appears onshore singing with Ariel's voice. Eric recognizes the song, and Ursula, transformed in Vanessa, casts a hypnotic enchantment on Eric to make him forget about Ariel.

The next day, Ariel discovers that Eric will be married to Vanessa. Scuttle discovers Vanessa's true identity and informs Ariel, who immediately pursues the wedding barge. Sebastian informs Triton, and Scuttle disrupts the wedding with the help of various sea animals. In the chaos, the nautilus shell around Ursula's neck is destroyed, restoring Ariel's voice and breaking Ursula's enchantment over Eric. Realizing that Ariel is the girl who saved his life, Eric rushes to kiss her, but the sun sets and Ariel transforms back into a mermaid and Vanessa transforms back into her true form of Ursula. Ursula then kidnaps Ariel. Triton confronts Ursula and demands Ariel's release, but the deal is inviolable. At Ursula's urging, Triton agrees to take Ariel's place as Ursula's prisoner, giving up his trident. Ariel is released as Triton transforms into a polyp and loses his authority over Atlantica. Ursula declares herself the Queen of the Seven Seas, but before she can use the trident, Eric intervenes with a harpoon. Ursula attempts to kill Eric, but Ariel intervenes, causing Ursula to inadvertently kill Flotsam and Jetsam. Enraged, Ursula uses the trident to grow to a monstrous size.

Ariel and Eric reunite on the surface just before a gigantic Ursula separates them. She then gains full control of the entire ocean, creating a storm and bringing sunken ships to the surface. Just as Ursula is about to kill Ariel, Eric commandeers a wrecked ship and kills Ursula by impaling her in the abdomen with its splintered bowsprit. With Ursula dead, Triton and the other polyps in Ursula's garden revert to their original forms. Realizing that Ariel truly loves Eric, Triton willingly changes her from a mermaid into a human permanently and approves her marriage to Eric. Ariel and Eric marry on a ship and depart, with all of Ariel's friends and family watching them as well.

####Little Nicky####
With his 10,000 year reign coming to an end and after torturing Adolf Hitler by shoving a pineapple up his rump, Satan must decide which of his three sons will succeed him as ruler of Hell. Adrian is the most devious, Cassius is the cruelest, and Nicky is the kindest. Adrian and Cassius claim that Nicky's mother is a goat and torment him by controlling his body with their minds. Nicky has had a speech impediment and a disfigured jaw since Cassius hit him in the face with a shovel. Satan assembles his sons to tell them that as they are not yet ready to succeed him, he will continue ruling Hell.

Angered by this decision, Adrian and Cassius travel to Earth to create a new Hell by possessing religious and political leaders in New York City. As they leave, they freeze the entrance to Hell, preventing more evil souls from entering and causing Satan to begin to disintegrate. Stanley the Gatekeeper informs Satan of this and Satan punishes him by growing breasts on his head and giving him to his father Lucifer. To stop Adrian and Cassius, he sends Nicky to Earth with a silver flask that traps whoever drinks from it inside.

Nicky has difficulty surviving on Earth and he is killed several times, landing in Hell and returning to New York each time. While learning how to eat and sleep, he meets a possessed, talking bulldog named Mr. Beefy, rents an apartment with an actor named Todd, and falls in love with a design student named Valerie Veran. Nicky encounters Adrian, but fails to capture him and scares Valerie away. Nicky then observes Cassius on television possessing the referee of a Harlem Globetrotters game. Nicky arrives at the game and successfully tricks Cassius into the flask. Satanist metalheads John and Peter swear loyalty to Nicky. That evening, Nicky apologizes to Valerie and they reconcile.

The following day, Adrian possesses the Chief of the NYPD and accuses Nicky of mass murder. Nicky has Todd kill him so he can go back to Hell and ask his father for advice, but Satan has trouble hearing because his ears have fallen off, and his assistants are panicking because the deadline to capture Adrian and Cassius is approaching. Back on Earth, Nicky and his friends devise a plan to capture Adrian in a subway station, but Adrian discovers their trick and, in the ensuing fight, grabs Valerie and dives onto the track as a train approaches, but Nicky throws her aside, leaving himself and Adrian to be killed by the train.

Arriving in Hell just minutes before midnight, Adrian begins taking over Hell by pushing what remains of his father aside and sitting on the throne, rising to Central Park, and starting a riotous party. Meanwhile, Nicky wakes up in Heaven as a reward for sacrificing himself and meets his mother Holly, an angel who tells him that he can defeat Adrian with the "inner light" that he inherited from her. After she gives him a mysterious orb, he confronts Adrian in Central Park where he covers Henry Winkler in bees. Adrian appears to win the battle by transforming into a bat and locking Nicky in the flask. However, Nicky escapes from the flask and shatters the orb, causing Ozzy Osbourne to appear, bite Adrian's head off, and spit it into the flask.

With his brothers captured, Nicky prepares to save his father. After he re-covers Winkler in bees to make sure he goes to Hell, he and Valerie express their love for each other and she kills him. In Hell, Satan regains his body and suggests Nicky stay with Valerie to maintain things in the middle while stating to Holly that he still loves her. In the presence of Nicky and Lucifer, Satan then shoves the flask containing Adrian and Cassius up Hitler's rump.

One year later, Nicky and Valerie live in New York with their infant son named Zachariah who has demonic powers.

A postscript states that Valerie struck Nicky with a shovel which fixed his jaw disfigurement. Satan and Holly continue their long distance relationship where Holly's fitness instructor is mentioned to be Chris Farley. Zachariah was suspended from the nursery after turning another kid's bottle of milk into moose urine. Todd started his one man show in which only a demon from Hell attended. Mr. Beefy reunited with his rat girlfriend and they had kids. Stanley the Gatekeeper and Gary the Monster also had kids of their own. John and Peter die in a plane crash and end up happily in Hell as honored residents who have been given Nicky's old bedroom to party in.

####The Love Letter####
Elizabeth Whitcomb lives near Boston in 1863 and writes a letter addressed to "Dearest" (no specific addressee), expressing her desire and hope to someday find someone to love with her whole heart and mind. She places the letter in the secret compartment of her desk.

In 1998, Scott Corrigan buys an antique desk. The store owner tells him the desk had belonged to a Union general. Re-conditioning it, he finds the secret compartment and Elizabeth's letter. He shows it to his mother who has a feeling Scott may actually be able to communicate with Elizabeth across time. She encourages him to reply, giving him a postage stamp from Elizabeth's period, and says he should mail it from the only post office now existing that was there in 1863. He does so, telling Elizabeth if she's patient, someday she will find her true love.

Back in 1863, the local letter carrier delivers Scott's letter to Elizabeth who is quite alarmed when reading it. She immediately goes to her desk and is shocked to find her letter missing from its secret compartment. She writes back to Scott demanding to know who he is and how he retrieved her letter.

In 1998, Scott hears from the desk what sounds like a letter had suddenly been dropped into it. Going to the secret compartment he is astonished to find Elizabeth's second letter. Scott replies, and soon Scott and Elizabeth are communicating across time. During this period, Scott goes to the home where Elizabeth lived 135 years ago, finding it is now owned by Clarisse, the granddaughter of Elizabeth's sister. Learning a bit more about her from this visit, in fact both of them sense each other's presence in the home across time. Scott's and Elizabeth's letters gradually become more personal and affectionate and eventually loving as they fall in love with each other. They realize however that their love is a hopeless one as 135 years separate them.

Meanwhile, in Elizabeth's time, her father tries to push her into a marriage with a man for whom Elizabeth has no feelings. Instead she meets a Union Army Officer, Caleb Denby, and begins to fall in love with him, while not losing any of her feelings toward Scott. (We, the audience, see that Caleb is the spitting image of Scott, something that Elizabeth at that point does not know.)

She writes to Scott of her new love, who in turn researches the Denby's name on the Internet, and finds that he was killed at the battle of Gettysburg. Scott frantically writes to Lizzy, as he has come to call her, and warns her to tell him that he should not go into that battle. Scottie (as she has come to call him) goes to mail his (as it turns out) last letter at the old post office only to find it on fire. He barely makes it into the P.O. and mails the letter before it burns down entirely.

Elizabeth receives Scottie's last letter, and Scottie gets out safely from the burning post office. With the destruction of the P.O., their ability to connect across time is irrevocably broken. She rushes to Gettysburg but arrives too late. Caleb has been mortally wounded and he tells her he wants to marry her, but then dies in her arms. When she returns home in grief, she is handed an earlier letter from Scotty which had been misplaced and which she had never seen until now. In it is a color photo that Scottie sent to her of himself. Seeing it, she realizes Scotty and Caleb are one and the same person, knows that both are now gone to her, saying she'll never forget him.

Back in 1998, Scott confesses to his fiancée everything about Elizabeth and that he has fallen in love with her. She reads Elizabeth's letters to Scott and in one of them, not only finds a photo of Elizabeth but one also of Elizabeth and Caleb and immediately sees that Caleb is identical to Scott. Although, she thinks the whole thing is crazy, she tearfully breaks off her engagement to Scott and leaves.

Scott then visits the old house one more time, to find that Clarisse has died, the house now left to Maggie, her caretaker and housekeeper. Maggie gives him an old wooden box Clarisse wanted him to have. Scott opens it to find Lizzys's poems (they were not in the box before Scotty wrote to her), his letters to her, and a worn but clear color picture of him, shocking Maggie completely.

The scene then turns to the church graveyard in the town where Elizabeth lived. Scott finds her grave and gravestone, at the bottom of which is carved, "I never forgot". The gravestone gives her birth date as 23.3.1834 and death as 7.8.1901 (aged 67). Elizabeth never married.

Then, a dog greets Scott in the graveyard, followed by its owner, Beth, the spitting image of Elizabeth. He then realizes the same thing Elizabeth did in her time; Scott is the reincarnation of Caleb, and Beth in 1998 is the reincarnation of Elizabeth. They have a brief friendly conversation after which Beth suggests coffee, and they go off together to get to know one another. The end of the film shows the book of Lizzy's poems featured in a bookstore, having finally been published by Scotty.

####Love Potion No. 9####
Paul Matthews is a lonely biochemist with a crush on his unavailable co-worker, biologist Diane Farrow. His friends take him to a gypsy on 34th and Vine named Madame Ruth. After reading his palm and seeing absolutely no romance in his life, Ruth gives him a small amount of Love Potion No. 8 on a piece of paper. As a scientist, Paul has doubts and ends up throwing it in the trash when he gets home. Around this time, Paul's friends buy him the services of Marisa, but all they do is talk.

His cat gets into the trash and eats some of the potion, then meows and attracts all the other cats in the neighborhood. When Paul sees the results, he takes it to Diane, and they find out the "scientific" properties of it. After analyzing it, they decide to use themselves as human test subjects. Diane ends up attracting an Italian car mogul and the prince of England, ending up getting a makeover in the process, while Paul has a string of hookups with women in bars, supermarkets, cars, sorority houses.

Paul and Diane realize their romantic attraction to each other and become involved. Eventually, Paul plans a proposal to Diane; however, when he comes by her house to do so, she's not there. Later, she tells him she has fallen for Gary. Paul is devastated and decides he really wants to get her back.
Marisa comes to his house to steal his stereo, and after trying the potion in his bathroom, she makes Paul gladly give her all his valuables, including the potion.

After "waking up" from his infatuation, Paul gets an idea, and Madame Ruth confirms that somebody looking like Gary has bought all the potion No. 8. He phones Diane to tell her Gary is using the potion on her, but Gary forbids her to talk to him. After weeks of unsuccessful attempts, Paul goes back to Madame Ruth, who gives him Love Potion No. 9, which will not create love, but remove things obscuring it (such as potion No. 8). But if Diane was never really in love with him, Paul will love her for his entire life and she will eternally hate him.

Paul asks three friends to help him force Diane to take No. 9, but they can't believe him. Marisa arrives at the house and uses No. 8 to rob all of them, proving the power of the potion.
When they arrive at the house, Diane's friend and matron of honor tells them Diane and Gary are marrying in an hour, but that she suspects something is wrong with Diane. Paul explains, she agrees to give Diane the potion, and things go terribly wrong, but Marisa, having tricked Gary's potion bottle from him, causes havoc and effectively ends the wedding, which gives Paul the chance to drink Potion No. 9, kiss Diane and wait five minutes as per the instructions. The effect kicks in too late but in the end, Diane runs away from Gary into Paul's arms.

####Made in Heaven####
In a small Pennsylvania town in 1957, Mike Shea (Hutton) dreams of escaping small-town life and moving to California with his girlfriend Brenda Carlucci. But Brenda leaves him with his motor running and Mike takes off alone.

On the way to California, Mike rescues a woman and her children from their car which went into a river but he perishes. Finding himself in Heaven, his Aunt Lisa greets him, and explains the rules and regulations. While searching for someone he used to know, Mike comes across heavenly guide Annie Packert (McGillis), and instantly they fall in love.

Unlike Mike, Annie has not yet lived on Earth, so their love is abruptly interrupted, just as they are going to perform a wedding ceremony. As she has not yet earned her wings on Earth, she must leave on a tour of duty and put in time inhabiting a human body.

Mike is beside himself with despair, but the heavenly powers, in the form of Emmett Humbird, chain-smoking and sporting an orange crew-cut, offer him a deal. Mike can return to Earth, with the stipulation that neither he nor Annie will remember each other. He then has 30 years in which they must find each other again.

Ally, the reincarnation of Annie, names her imaginary friend Mike. She grows up, gets married and writes a book whose protagonist is Mike. Her husband leaves her, and she is disconnected for a time. She dreams and daydreams of Mike, which confuses her, as she's not met him yet in this life.

Mike is reborn as Elmo, at 28 Emmett visits him because he is pretty much a lost soul. Just conned by a woman, he's wandering down the road. Later, he gets a copy of Ally's book.

Mike ends up meeting his original parents while hitchhiking, they are kind to him and buy him a trumpet. As a result, Elmo starts his musical career and ends up writing a hit song that he had been working on in Heaven. The song was "We Never Danced", a very ‘80s sounding song and one of the last words Annie spoke to Mike in heaven.

Mike/Elmo ends up finding Ally/Annie on the street at the end of the film, and their eyes lock on one another. It's his 30th birthday, they met in the nick of time.

####Mannequin####
In Ancient Egypt, Ema "Emmy" Hesire takes refuge in a pyramid, pleading to the gods that she find true love rather than enter an arranged marriage. Emmy suddenly vanishes before her mother's eyes. In 1987 Philadelphia, Jonathan Switcher is a sculptor working at a mannequin warehouse and finishes a single female mannequin he considers a masterpiece. His boss fires him for spending time trying to make his mannequins works of art rather than assembling several each day.

Jonathan takes a number of odd jobs and is fired each time for working too slowly because he tries to make each project artistic. His girlfriend Roxie Shield, an employee of the Illustra department store, dumps him, criticizing him as a flake. After his motorcycle breaks down in the rain, Jonathan passes the Prince & Company department store. Seeing his mannequin in the display window, he remarks she is the first work that made him feel like a true artist. The next morning, he saves store owner Claire Timkin from being injured by her own shop sign. Grateful, Claire orders store manager Mr. Richards (who is secretly paid by Illustra to sabotage Prince & Company so it can be bought) to give Jonathan a job. Viewed with suspicion by security guard Captain Felix Maxwell, Jonathan works with and befriends window dresser Hollywood Montrose. When Jonathan is putting together a window display, the mannequin he made comes to life with Emmy's spirit. She says she has existed for centuries as a muse, sometimes inhabiting the works of an artist she admires and inspires. She has encountered amazing people but has never found true love. Emmy explains the gods allow her life when she and Jonathan are unobserved, otherwise she is a mannequin.

With Emmy's help, Jonathan's window display is a massive success. Now placed in charge of visual merchandising, Jonathan asks Emmy to continue helping with the displays. Over several weeks, they create several popular displays, attracting new business while also deepening their relationship. Montrose realizes Jonathan loves a mannequin he created but does not judge him. Illustra's chief executive B.J. Wert sends Roxie to poach Jonathan but he refuses, saying he now works for people who value him. Annoyed by Felix's ineptitude and Richards' attitude towards Jonathan, Claire fires them. Deeply impressed with his work, Claire makes Jonathan vice president of the department store. One night, Jonathan takes Emmy through the city on his motorcycle, despite how unusual this seems to bystanders. He is witnessed by Richards and Felix, who conclude he is deeply fixated on a female mannequin.

Richards and Felix (who now works for Illustra) steal the female mannequins from Prince & Company. The next morning, Jonathan confronts Wert about the theft, who makes another job offer. Furious over Jonathan caring so much about the mannequin he calls Emmy, Roxie storms off. Jonathan follows Roxie while being pursued by security guards including Felix. Wert and Richards demand the police be called. Roxie loads the stolen mannequins into the store's large trash compactor, then is knocked out by debris. As Hollywood holds the pursuers at bay with a fire hose, a janitor watches Jonathan jump onto the compactor's conveyor belt to save the mannequin that is Emmy. As Jonathan risks his life for her, Emmy comes to life. Once safe, she realizes she is truly and permanently alive again. Emmy thanks the gods for uniting her with her true love and Jonathan promises to love her forever.

While the janitor wonders if other mannequins will come to life, Hollywood arrives and realizes Emmy was alive the entire time. Felix and his fellow guards rush in, followed by Wert and Richards who demand the police arrest Jonathan. Claire arrives, revealing she has security video of Richards and Felix breaking and entering, and committing theft. She accuses Wert of conspiracy, and Jonathan adds the man also kidnapped Emmy. Wert fires Roxie as he is arrested and hauled away alongside Richards and Felix. Jonathan realizes the security footage may have shown him being romantic with a mannequin, but Claire coyly suggests he should not worry about that. Some time later, Jonathan and Emmy are married in the store window of Prince & Company, with Claire as maid of honor and Hollywood as best man. Numerous pedestrians outside the store window applaud the wedding.

####Mannequin Two: On the Move####
In the year 1391, Prince William of the small Germanic kingdom of Hauptmann-Koenig falls in love with a peasant girl named Jessie. Not approving of the romance, the queen plots with her court sorcerer Spretzel, who enchants a necklace intended for Jessie. Putting on the necklace, she is transformed into a wooden statue and the magic prevents William from freeing her. He is told Jessie will be frozen for a thousand years and can only wake earlier if a true love from another land removes the necklace. Angry, William declares the kingdom will then also be cursed for a thousand years. Perpetual rainfall begins.

"Almost" one thousand years later, Hauptmann-Koenig is a poor country enduring endless rain and financial hardship. Jessie stands as a museum piece in the castle, where a tour guide recites the fairy tale of the "Enchanted Peasant Girl." To boost tourism, Count Gunther Spretzle sends the statue to be displayed at the Prince & Company department store in Philadelphia. The store will do a dramatic stage presentation celebrating the Hauptman-Koenig's history and culture. Secretly, Count Spretzle is the descendant of the sorcerer and knows the fairy tale is true. When Jessie awakens in a few days, he plans to make her his bride and then escape to Bermuda with his henchmen, using stolen crown jewels to fund his retirement.

In the Germantown section of Northwest Philadelphia, Jason Williamson, a descendant of Prince William, lives with his mother who runs a matchmaking service. He begins work at Prince & Company where store manager Mr. James makes him assistant to visual merchandising head Hollywood Montrose, who is directing the Enchanted Peasant Girl presentation. When the delivery truck with the Hauptmann-Koenig artifacts crashes over the Schuylkill River, Hollywood and James arrive on the scene. Seeing a female figure falls into the river, Jason saves her, only then realizing it's the statue from Europe. Jessie is briefly restored to life when Jason touches her necklace.

Back at Prince & Company, Jason is romantically drawn to Jessie. Removing her necklace with ease, he is shocked when she comes to life. Learning she is in the future, Jessie concludes Jason is William reincarnated. Jason shows Jessie the modern world and they have a whirlwind romance, sharing their feelings, dreams, and cultures with each other. The next morning, unaware of its magic, Jessie puts on her necklace and is frozen again. Heartbroken and unsure what to do, Jason returns the statue to Prince & Company.

Admiring Jessie's necklace, Hollywood tries it on, becoming a statue and restoring her to life. Jessie leaves to explore the mall. Spretzle's henchmen find Hollywood, remove the necklace, then rush to find Jessie. The Queen of Hauptman-Koenig then calls Spretzle, warning him she knows the crown jewels are missing. Jason finds Hollywood and explains Jessie came to life. Hollywood believes him, remarking, "This has happened before."

Recognizing Jason is William reincarnated, Spretzel tries to kill him.  Seeing Spretzel's henchmen, Jessie takes a go-kart and escapes to Jason's home.  Spretzle and the authorities follow Jason to his home.  The count confronts Jessie alone and puts the necklace on her.  Seeing her frozen again, Jason realizes the necklace is cursed and demands it be removed.  The cops (Hollywood calls them "The Heat"), believing he is unhealthily fixated on a mannequin, arrest him for theft.  Spretzle wants to leave with Jessie but Mr. James reminds the count they have a contract and a show happening tomorrow.

The next day, Hollywood dresses in his former US Marine Corps uniform and bluffs a policeman into releasing Jason into his custody. At the Enchanted Peasant Girl presentation, Jason removes Jessie's necklace on stage, restoring her to life in front of spectators who assume it is part of the show. Enraged, Spretzle takes Jessie and forces her into his hot air balloon. Jason follows and they struggle. Jessie puts the necklace on Spretzle, repeating the ancient curse. The now-frozen Spretzle is knocked out of the balloon and smashes into pieces on the street.

Later in Hauptmann-Koenig, the glued together statue of Count Spretzle is the castle centerpiece and inspires his own fairy tale. Meanwhile, the newly married Jason and Jessie pick up a new necklace at Prince & Company before leaving on their honeymoon.

####A Matter of Time####
The film opens at a mid-1950s press conference, where scenes are shown for an upcoming film starring Nina (Liza Minnelli), a popular screen celebrity. While on her way to the conference, Nina looks at herself in an ornate mirror, which triggers a flashback to her arrival in Rome, when she was 19 years old. Her cousin, Valentina (Tina Aumont), has arranged for her to work as a chambermaid in a dilapidated hotel.

In the course of her duties, Nina meets an ailing, eccentric Senora Contessa Sanziani (Ingrid Bergman), who was once the toast of Europe. The Contessa receives a visit from her husband, Count Sanziani (Charles Boyer), from whom she has been estranged for 40 years. Old quarrels are revived and Sanziani leaves the hotel, sadly telling the manager that he does not wish to be informed if anything should happen to his wife.

After having a discussion with Nina, the Contessa decides to take her under her wing and turn her into a lovely and sophisticated woman. Nina is troubled by a birthmark on her forehead, but the Contessa assures her that someday important men will be eager to press their lips to it. One evening, the Contessa summons Nina to her room and shows her a scarlet sari an Indian ambassador had once given her.

She insists that Nina undress and places the sari on her. The Contessa then cuts Nina's long, dark hair and puts makeup on her and transforms the maid into a beautiful woman. Nina tells the Contessa she wishes she could be just like her, but the Contessa says that is a silly desire. While listening to the Contessa's stories, Nina imagines herself living out the Contessa's existence, triggering a series of fantasy sequences, all set in elaborate settings such as casinos and Venetian palazzos.

On a rare day off from work, Nina explores Rome and begins to sense the wonderful possibilities that may lie in store for her. That evening, while she is performing a task for the Contessa, the latter suffers a mental breakdown. The manager of the hotel, angered by the Contessa's wailing, insists that she must leave the hotel within a few days.

The next morning, Nina seeks help from Mario (Spiros Andros), a frustrated screenwriter who lives in the hotel. She has brought with her some of the Contessa's old stock certificates, hoping that Mario will be able to determine their worth. Mario tells her the certificates are worthless and that he feels no pity for the Contessa. Nina reacts angrily and leaves his room.

Later on, Nina goes to a bank and finds that Mario was very nearly right. Most of the certificates are, indeed, worthless, but one, from the Bank of Congo, is worth enough to pay the Contessa's hotel bill for several weeks – ₤150,000 (about US$240 in 1954, the year the film takes place).efn|An Italian lira was worth about 1/625th of a U.S. dollar in 1954, i.e., 1.6 mills, so ₤150,000 was worth $240. In #expr:CURRENTYEAR-1 terms, that would be about $Inflation|US|240|1954|r=-1.

She uses part of this money to help pay the Contessa's hotel expenses. That same day, Nina goes to a restaurant to pick up the Contessa's dinner. A screen director, Antonio Vicari (Gabriele Ferzetti), sees Nina in the restaurant and asks Mario, who is writing a screenplay for him, to introduce him to the young woman. The introduction is made, and arrangements are made for Nina to have a screen test.

Before she leaves for the studio, she finds that the Contessa has abruptly checked out of the hotel to find an old flame, Gabriele d'Orazio (Orso Maria Guerrini). The Contessa is no longer thinking clearly; she hurries into the street and is hit by a car. She is taken, unconscious, to a Catholic charity hospital.

Meanwhile, Nina has difficulties with her screen test, until Mario gets her to talk about the Contessa. Her subsequent show of passion impresses Vicari, who decides he wants Nina to star in his next picture.

Nina hurries off the set, and after a search, she and Mario locate the hospital where the Contessa is under the care of Sister Pia (Isabella Rossellini, her real-life daughter, in her first film role). Nina is taken to the Contessa's bedside, but the old woman has just died. Deeply saddened, Nina takes the Contessa's ornate mirror as a remembrance and leaves the hospital.

The film jumps forward to the present time. Nina has become a motion picture star. She arrives at the press conference. As she steps out of her limousine, a girl hurries up and says she wants to be just like Nina when she grows up.

####Maxie####
When husband Nick Chaney and his wife Jan, somewhat staid and socially stifled, move into an old apartment house in San Francisco, they uncover a message under layers of wallpaper left by a previous tenant ("Maxie Malone lived here! Read it, and weep!").

The crazy landlady from upstairs is overwhelmed when she sees the message and tells them about an actress, Maxie Malone, who lived there in the 1920s. Maxie was a brash, young party girl who died in a car crash the morning before her big audition for a Hollywood studio.

Her only movie legacy, mere minutes on film, is dug up by Nick who watches it with Jan, who goes to bed right afterwards. Nick is also headed to bed, but he is stopped by a voice which tells him to play the piece again. He thinks that it is Jan at first, but the voice materializes partially in front of him as Maxie and he plays the piece again for her. Then Maxie disappears and Nick goes to bed, dismissing the incident as a psychotic episode.

The next day at work, Nick's boss (who has romantic designs on him) invites him and Jan to a party. Jan is nervous about the high society bash when Nick agrees to attend, but Maxie (who has inserted her soul into Jan's body) behaves rather differently from Jan. "Jan" gets drunk, dances seductively, and sings a vamp version of "Bye Bye Blackbird" draped over the piano, flirting with every male there. Drunk, Maxie and Nick break into an amusement park and make out on a merry-go-round, only to be caught by a policeman, who lets them go after Nick makes up an excuse.

Somehow this otherworldly possession must end, so that Jan can resume her own life. The solution lies in an audition for the lead in a new film production of Cleopatra. Paired with actor Harry Hamlin (as himself), "Jan" dazzles everyone when Maxie takes over the role. A successful actress at last, Maxie moves on in the afterlife. She leaves Jan freer and happier, comfortable in expressing her own sexuality, thanks to sharing Maxie's irrepressible feminine spirit.

####Meet Joe Black####
Media mogul Bill Parrish is contemplating a merger with another media giant. Meanwhile, his eldest daughter, Alison, is planning an elaborate 65th birthday party for him. His younger daughter Susan, a resident in internal medicine, has a relationship with Drew, one of Bill's board members.

Considering marriage, as Bill sees Susan is not deeply in love, he suggests she wait to be swept off of her feet, suggesting "lightning could strike". When the company helicopter lands, he hears a mysterious voice, which he tries to ignore. Arriving in his office, Bill has sharp pains in his chest and hears the voice again, saying, "Yes."

While studying in a coffee shop, Susan meets a vibrant young man who also says "lightning may strike" a relationship forms between them. Stunned, she departs without getting his name. Unbeknownst to her, directly afterward, he is struck fatally by multiple cars.

That evening, Bill hears the voice again and it summons him so Bill meets him alone in a room. Slowly materializing, it identifies itself as Death and is now in the body of the young man. Death explains that his impassioned speech to his daughter piqued his interest. Given Bill's "competence, experience, and wisdom", Death says that for as long as Bill will be his guide on Earth, Bill will not have to die. They both return to the dinner table and under pressure to make an introduction, clumsily make up a name for Death, introducing him to the family as "Joe Black." Joe Black, having no sophisticated human qualities, doesn't seem to know how to drink or eat, or how to use food and utensils. He later wanders through the palatial house to adapt. Susan tries to understand his intentions, noting that his character is not the same as that of the man she met in the coffee shop.

Bill fails to keep events from going rapidly out of his control. Drew secretly conspires with Parrish Communications, capitalizing on Bill's strange behavior and reliance on Joe to convince the board of directors to vote Bill out as chairman. Using information from Bill's son-in-law, Quince, Drew pushes for merger approval which Bill now opposes.

Intrigued by Joe's naivete, Susan sees he's very different from the young man she met in the coffee shop. She falls deeply in love, while Joe is now under the influence of human desires and a magnetic attraction to her, and they make love. After they dress, Joe asks Susan, "What do we do now?" She replies, "It'll come to us." Bill inadvertently walks in and sees them kissing.

Bill angrily confronts Joe about his relationship with his daughter. He then suggests to Susan that Joe won't  be around much longer. At Susan's hospital, Joe interacts with a terminally ill old woman who wishes to die. Understanding who he is, when he tells her he loves Susan, they discuss the meaning of life and she helps him understand he is dangerously meshing two worlds. When Joe asks her if she is ready to go, she accedes.

As Bill's birthday arrives, Joe declares his intention to take Susan with him. Bill pleads with Joe to recognize the meaning of true love, especially honesty and sacrifice, and to not steal Susan's life.

At the party, knowing his death is imminent, Bill makes peace with his daughters. Susan tells Joe she has loved him since the day in the coffee shop and he hints that his time is coming to an end. Realizing Susan loves the unknown man, not him, crushes him. He doesn't tell her who he really is, but she seems to intuit something mystical about his identity. Struggling to comprehend the magnitude of their attraction, Susan refuses to recognize Joe as Death. He says "You know who I am". She sputters, "You're... you're Joe." He promises, "You will always have what you found in the coffee shop... I'll love you always." Joe realizes he must set aside his own desire and allow Susan to live her life.

Quince apologizes to Bill for undermining the company, and Bill forgives him. Joe helps Bill regain control of his company, exposing Drew's underhanded business dealings to the board by claiming to be an agent of the Internal Revenue Service and threatening to put Drew in jail.

In their father/daughter dance, Susan and Bill say goodbye. Fireworks begin, and on a hilltop above the party, Joe waits with tears in his eyes. Bill heads up to him, and they share their thoughts. Bill asks Joe if he should be afraid. He replies, "Not a man like you." As the fireworks explode in the distance, Susan watches Joe and her father cross a bridge at the top of the hill and descend out of sight on the other side.

Susan stands stunned as "Joe" reappears alone and bewildered. He is again the young man from the coffee shop, uninjured and not comprehending where he is. Susan intuits that her father is gone, and the magnetism that she had shared with this young man has returned. "What do we do now?" she asks. "It'll come to us," he replies, as they descend hand-in-hand toward the party.

####Midnight in Paris####
In 2010, Gil Pender, a successful but disillusioned Hollywood screenwriter, and his fiancée Inez are in Paris vacationing with Inez's wealthy, Republican parents. Gil is struggling to finish his debut novel, about a man who works in a nostalgia shop, and finds himself drawn to the rich artistic history of Paris, especially the Lost Generation of the 1920s.

Inez dismisses his ambitions to move to Paris and write as a delusional dream and encourages him to stick with more lucrative screenwriting assignments. By chance, they meet Inez's friend Paul and his wife Carol, and Inez invites them to join Gil and her as they sightsee.

Paul speaks with great authority but questionable accuracy on every subject they encounter, even contradicting a tour guide at the Musée Rodin, where he insists his knowledge of Rodin's relationships is more accurate than the guide's. Gil finds him pedantic and annoying, yet Inez adores him.

A night of wine tasting gets Gil drunk, and he decides to walk the streets of Paris to return to the hotel; Inez goes off with Paul and Carol by taxi. Gil stops to get his bearings, and at midnight, a 1920s car pulls up beside him. The passengers urge him to join them and he finds himself at a party for Jean Cocteau attended by notable people of the 1920s Paris art scene: Cole Porter, his wife Linda Lee Porter, and Zelda and Scott Fitzgerald.

Zelda gets bored and encourages Scott and Gil to leave with her. They first head to Bricktops, where they see Josephine Baker dancing, and then to a cafe where they run into Ernest Hemingway and Juan Belmonte.

After Zelda and Scott leave, Gil and Hemingway discuss writing, and Hemingway offers to show Gil's novel to Gertrude Stein. But as Gil exits the building to fetch his manuscript from his hotel, he returns to 2010: the cafe where he encountered Hemingway is now a laundromat.

The next night, Gil tries to share his time-travel experience with Inez, but she ditches Gil before the clock strikes midnight. When it does, the same car returns. Gil joins Hemingway on his way to visit Gertrude Stein’s apartment, where Gil is introduced to Stein, who is in the midst of giving Pablo Picasso a negative critique of a new painting of Picasso’s lover Adriana. Gil is instantly drawn to Adriana, a costume designer who has also had affairs with Amedeo Modigliani and Georges Braque. Stein reads aloud the novel's first line:
Blockquote|'Out of the Past' was the name of the store, and its products consisted of memories: what was prosaic and even vulgar to one generation had been transmuted by the mere passing of years to a status at once magical and also camp. Adriana praises his writing, and admits that she has always had a longing for the past, especially the Belle Époque.

Back in 2010, Gil continues his time travel for the next couple of nights. Inez is unimpressed with the boulevards and bistros and Gil's disappearing, while her father is suspicious and hires a private detective to follow him.

Adriana leaves Picasso and continues to bond with Gil; although, he is conflicted by his attraction to her. Gil explains his inner conflict to Salvador Dalí, Man Ray, and Luis Buñuel, but as surrealists, they find nothing unusual about his claim of coming from the future. Gil later suggests the plot of the film "The Exterminating Angel" to Buñuel, which he doesn't understand.

Inez and her parents are traveling to Mont Saint Michel while Gil meets Gabrielle, an antique dealer and fellow admirer of the Lost Generation. He buys a Cole Porter gramophone record from her and later finds Adriana's diary from the 1920s at a book stall by the Seine which reveals that she was in love with him. Reading that she dreamed of receiving a gift of earrings from him and then making love to him, Gil tries to steal a pair of Inez's earrings to give to Adriana, but is thwarted by Inez's early return to the hotel room.

Gil buys earrings for Adriana and returns to the past. He takes Adriana for a walk, they kiss, and he gives her the earrings. While she's putting them on, a horse-drawn carriage comes down the street, and a richly dressed couple inside the carriage invite Gil and Adriana for a ride. The carriage transports the passengers to the Belle Époque, an era Adriana considers Paris's Golden Age.

Gil and Adriana go first to Maxim's Paris, then to the Moulin Rouge where they meet Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Paul Gauguin, and Edgar Degas. Gil asks what they believe the best era was, and the three agree it is the Renaissance.

The excited Adriana is offered a job designing ballet costumes and proposes to Gil that they stay, but Gil, upon observing the unhappiness of Adriana and the other artists, realizes that chasing nostalgia is fruitless because life, and thus, the present, is always "a little unsatisfying." Adriana, however, decides to stay in the 1890s, and they part ways.

Gil rewrites the first two chapters of his novel and retrieves his draft from Stein, who praises his progress as a writer and tells him that Hemingway likes it but questions why the main character has not realized that his fiancée, based on Inez, is having an affair with a character based on Paul.

Gil returns to 2010 and confronts Inez. She admits to having slept with Paul, but disregards it as a meaningless fling and that they can discuss it after their wedding. Gil breaks up with her and decides to move to Paris. Walking by the Seine at midnight, Gil bumps into Gabrielle; he offers to walk her home after it starts to rain. They learn that they share a love for Paris in the rain.

####Miracle in the Rain####
A few months after America's entry into World War II, secretary Ruth Wood (Jane Wyman) lives quietly in Manhattan with her physically and emotionally fragile mother, Agnes (Josephine Hutchinson). Ruth's co-workers at Excelsior Shoe Manufacturing Company are her best friend Grace Ullman (Eileen Heckart) and Millie Kranz (Peggie Castle), an attractive blonde involved in an affair with her married boss, Stephen Jalonik (Fred Clark). Also in the office is Monty (Arte Johnson), a young shipping clerk classified by the draft as 4-F, who monitors the war's campaigns on a world map pinned to the wall.

One evening after work, when a cloudburst forces Ruth and other pedestrians to take shelter in the vestibule of an office building, Arthur Hugenon (Van Johnson), a cheerful, talkative G.I. stationed in the area, surprises the shy Ruth by starting a conversation. When he invites her to dinner, she declines, saying that her housebound mother is expecting her. Undeterred, Art buys food for three at a delicatessen and accompanies Ruth home. Agnes, who has distrusted men since her husband Harry left her for another woman ten years earlier, receives Art with little enthusiasm. During the meal, Art, who grew up on a Tennessee farm, captivates Ruth with his stories and afterward entertains them by playing Harry's piano. Upon finding the manuscript of an unfinished melody Harry composed, Art asks permission to take it back to camp, where he and his army buddy Dixie will write lyrics for it. When weekend arrives, Art takes Ruth and Grace to a matinee and, as they afterwards walk to a restaurant, passing an auction, Ruth impulsively bids on an antique Roman coin, which she gives to Art for good luck. While the trio is enjoying dinner at the Café Normandy, Ruth is unaware that the piano player is her father (William Gargan), whom she has not seen since he left Agnes. However, Harry recognizes Ruth and confides to his bartender friend Andy that he has been too ashamed to return to his family.

Later, Ruth tells Art that Agnes tried to kill herself after Harry left and still hopes for his return. Art arrives late for their next Sunday date, but brings the lyrics he and Dixie have written to Harry's music, entitled "I'll Always Believe in You", which he sings together with Ruth. As they go out and walk through Central Park, Ruth voices fears about the war and Art tells her she must have faith. They then encounter Sergeant Gil Parker (Alan King), while he takes snapshots of his new bride, Arlene Witchy (Barbara Nichols), who works as a singer. Gil asks Art to take their picture and then offers to photograph Art and Ruth. In private, Gil warns Art that his division will soon be shipped overseas, but Art refuses to believe the rumor. At the lagoon, where children are sailing toy boats, Art recognizes the name of an elderly man, Commodore Eli B. Windgate (Halliwell Hobbes), nicknamed "Windy", a former yachtsman who owned many of the surrounding buildings before losing his fortune in the Crash of '29. Hoping to be a reporter after the war, Art senses a good story and interviews Windy on the spot. He then goes with Ruth to "The New York Times" Building and convinces the city editor (unbilled Grandon Rhodes) to let him write it as a human interest story. Instead of taking payment, Art asks to be considered for a reporting job after the war. A couple of days later, as Ruth waits to meet him for their pre-arranged date, Art arrives late, riding on a truck filled with other soldiers, including Dixie (unbilled Paul Smith). With only a brief moment remaining before the truck's departure for the port where the troop ship awaits, he asks Ruth to marry him when he returns and, to allay her fears, says he still has the lucky Roman coin.

For three months, Ruth writes to Art every day, but receives no letters in return. Finally, a special delivery man knocks on the apartment door and hands a letter from a battlefield chaplain informing her that Art died in combat and that his dying wish was that she be told about his love for her. Ruth's tear drops on the letter and, in the following days and weeks, she is inconsolable despite the best efforts of her friends and co-workers. Millie, moved by Ruth's misfortune, feels the need for a fresh and pure start, drops Jalonik as her lover and leaves the firm. Grace finds Ruth consumed by grief, sitting on a bench in Central Park, and takes her to St. Patrick's Cathedral, where Ruth lights candles under the statue of Saint Andrew. Jalonik, hoping Ruth will fill the void left in his extra-marital life by Millie, takes her to Café Normandy and attempts to engage in a warm-up conversation, but Ruth is in such a despairing state that she pays no attention as he kisses her on the cheek. A few feet to the side, at the bar, Harry has the radio on and hears the familiar strains of his music since, before shipping out, Dixie made suggestions to Art as to the possibility of marketing Harry's music with Art's lyrics as a professional song. Puzzled, Harry dials Agnes' number but, at the sound of her voice, his resolve falters and he hangs up without speaking. Having written numerous letters of explanation and contrition to Agnes, he continually found himself tearing them to bits, because of inability to face the hurt he caused her.

Ruth has been returning to the statue of St. Andrew and talking to the cathedral's young priest (Paul Picerni). Losing interest in life, she ignores a cold, which turns into pneumonia. Mrs. Hamer, the upstairs neighbor who has often helped Ruth care for Agnes, now helps Agnes nurse the bedridden Ruth. One rainy night, while Agnes has dozed off near her bedside, the feverish Ruth leaves the apartment just before Harry finally musters the courage to walk in with the intention of asking Agnes' forgiveness for leaving. Stunned at seeing him, Agnes also realizes that Ruth is missing, just as Grace telephones. Upon being told that Ruth has left her sickbed, Grace realizes that she must be heading for the cathedral.

Standing on the cathedral steps, consumed by fever, Ruth hears Art's voice speaking her name. Delirious, she sees Art materialize and slowly approach close enough for an embrace or a kiss as he tells her that love never dies. No longer possessing earthly means of holding on to the Roman coin she gifted to him, Art returns it to Ruth. A moment later, in the midst of the heavy, late evening rain, the priest finds Ruth unconscious on the steps, just as Grace arrives. Seeing the coin clasped in Ruth's hand, he shows it to Grace, who recognizes it and realizes that, for a brief moment, Art had returned to Ruth, whose own tenuous hold on life remains clouded in uncertainty at the final fadeout.

####My Boyfriend's Back####
Johnny Dingle has been in love with Missy McCloud since they were kids. In his senior year of high school, he decides to fake a robbery at Missy’s job with his best friend, Eddie. He hopes that by stopping the "robbery" he will impress her and she will go to the prom with him.

During the "robbery" a real robber holds Johnny and Missy at gunpoint. Thinking it is Eddie, Johnny dies taking a bullet meant for Missy. After the funeral, Johnny rises from the grave. He is greeted by Murray the gravedigger, who warns him that he can’t leave the cemetery. Johnny ignores him and goes back to his home.

Missy is hesitant to be around Johnny, but changes her mind when her boyfriend Buck and his dim-witted friend Chuck discriminate against him for being a Zombie. They go on a date, which goes well until Missy accidentally rips Johnny’s ear off.

Johnny goes to the town doctor, Dr. Bronson, who refers him to a woman named Maggie, the widow of a zombie.  She tells Johnny that he needs to eat the flesh of the living to stop decaying.

Johnny and Missy meet up at the library, where he’s attacked by Buck and Chuck. Chuck accidentally hits himself in the head with an ax and dies. Johnny eats Chuck's body, invoking the wrath of Chuck’s father, Big Chuck.

Missy’s father, the town sheriff, tells Johnny to leave town for his own safety. Johnny doesn’t listen and returns to Missy at night, but leaves when he bites her arm. He’s captured by Dr.Bronson, who attempts to dissect Johnny and create a youth formula from his zombie cells. Johnny escapes when Big Chuck leads a mob to kill him, with Missy and Eddie helping him. He flees to the cemetery, where Murray, his parents, Eddie, and Missy defend him, earning him the town and the sheriff’s acceptance. Johnny and Missy dance, but Johnny begins to decay and dies.

In Heaven, he’s told by the gatekeeper that he was not meant to die in the robbery, and he is sent back the moment before the robber entered. The events replay but Johnny survives this time due to the bullet hitting Missy’s locket. Johnny and Missy go to the prom as a couple.

####One Touch of Venus####
Wealthy department-store mogul Whitfield Savory II buys a statue of Venus for $200,000. He plans to exhibit it in the store. Eddie Hatch, a window dresser, kisses the statue on a whim. To his shock, Venus comes to life. She leaves the store and Eddie is accused of stealing the work of art. Nobody believes the truth, including secretary Molly Stewart, who is Savory's right-hand woman, and Kerrigan, a detective. Venus turns up at Eddie's apartment, forcing him to hide her from girlfriend Gloria and roommate Joe.

Entranced by a Venus song of love, Joe falls for Eddie's girl Gloria. At the store, meanwhile, Venus has fallen asleep on a sofa and is discovered there by Whitfield, who is instantly smitten. Kerrigan decides it's time for Eddie to be placed under arrest for the statue's theft. Venus, to save Eddie, is willing to seduce Whitfield, but a threat by Molly to leave him brings Whitfield back to his senses. He realizes it's Molly he truly loves. Venus is called home by Jupiter and must return to Mount Olympus, so she returns to her pedestal. Whitfield can now display his work of art to the public. Eddie is the only one left alone, at least until he meets a new salesgirl who is a dead ringer for the goddess of love.

####The Other Side of the Tracks####
Ten years after a tragic train accident killed his girlfriend, Josh finds himself haunted by disturbing visions from somewhere between the world of the living and the dead—haunting memories that keep him from moving on. His buddy, back in town for their high school reunion, tries to wake Josh from his painful past, but a mysterious young waitress offers a seductive alternative.

####Over Her Dead Body####
Kate and Henry are a happy couple. Henry proposed to Kate and they are about to be married, but on the day of their wedding, Kate is accidentally killed by an ice sculpture angel, because of the actions of an ice sculptor. Unaware that she has died and her soul left her body, Kate awakens in Purgatory, and wastes precious time arguing with an angel who finally leaves before she can explain to Kate what she must do to move on.

A year later, Henry's sister Chloe hopes that he will find closure by consulting beautiful Ashley, a psychic who also runs a catering business with her gay best friend Dan. After an unsuccessful first meeting, Chloe gives Kate's diary to Ashley so that she can pretend to communicate with Kate and convince Henry to move on with his life. In the process, Henry and Ashley fell in love with each other... much to the consternation of Kate, who has been watching over Henry. When Kate voices her displeasure, Ashley hears her, unaware of what it means.

Angry over Ashley's deception and uncertain of what she is supposed to do, Kate later encounters the ice sculptor, and discovers that he is also a ghost (a result of a drunk driving crash). He explains to her that they must deal with their unfinished business. Believing that her job is to protect Henry, Kate proceeds to harass Ashley (who is the only one who can see or hear Kate). Using her ghostly abilities of intangibility, levitation, and auditory hallucination, Kate hopes to force Ashley to break up with Henry. Ashley persists, but then Henry discovers the fraud with the diary and breaks off the relationship. Despondent over the break-up, Ashley turns to Dan for solace, but is further distraught when Dan reveals that he is not gay and has secretly been in love with her for years. Over time, Ashley and Dan eventually reconcile.

After several months of watching Henry fall back into a depressed funk, Kate encounters the sculptor once more, who points out that if she had resolved her unfinished business, she would have moved on to Heaven by now. When the sculptor asks her what she really wants, Kate reluctantly admits that she only wants Henry to be happy... and realizes that he could be happy with Ashley. Then the sculptor reveals that Kate was "his" unfinished business and he had to get her to do the right thing before moving on, which he does. Kate first attempts to convince Ashley to get back together with Henry but Ashley doesn't believe her change of heart, and is preparing to fly to Las Vegas with Dan. In desperation, Kate finds she is able to talk to Henry through his pet parrot and gets him to meet Ashley at the airport. Realizing that Henry has forgiven her and that she has Kate's blessing, Ashley joyfully embraces with Henry. At their wedding, Ashley delays her walk down the aisle to sit briefly in the back pew, to promise Kate that she will strive to make Henry happy. Also at the wedding, Dan makes a new connection with Chloe. Now ready to move on, Kate arrives once more in Purgatory, congratulated for her efforts by the angel and requests the "orb of true light" collected from Kate's loved ones. The angel leaves once again, leaving Kate in Purgatory.

####Peggy Sue Got Married####
In 1985, Peggy Sue Bodell attends her 25-year high school reunion, accompanied by her daughter, Beth, rather than her husband, Charlie, who was her high-school sweetheart. She and Charlie married right after graduation when Peggy Sue became pregnant, but have recently separated due to Charlie's infidelity.

At the reunion, Peggy reconnects with her old high school girlfriends, Maddy and Carol. She ignores Charlie when he unexpectedly arrives. The emcee then announces the reunion's “king and queen": Richard Norvik, the former class geek who is now a billionaire inventor, and Peggy Sue. Overwhelmed, she faints onstage while being crowned.

Peggy Sue awakens, only it is now 1960, her senior year of high school. Confused and disoriented, she decides to go home to her parents and act like everything is normal. Hoping that Richard Norvik can shed light on her situation, she befriends him and relates what happened. He disbelieves her story until Peggy Sue begins giving details about the future. She later decides to break up with Charlie. However, she wants to sleep with him after a party, but he panics and reminds her that she rebuffed him the weekend before. He takes her home, but instead of going inside, she goes to an all-night café where she sees fellow student Michael Fitzsimmons, an artsy loner who she always wished she had slept with. As they sit and talk, Peggy Sue learns they have much in common. They leave on his motorcycle and later have sex under the stars.

The next night at a music bar, Michael wants Peggy to go to Utah with him and another female for a polygamous relationship where the two women support him while he writes. She declines, telling him to use their night together as inspiration for his writing. Charlie happens to be singing at the bar, and she sees there is more to him than she realized. Charlie comes off the stage and speaks to a music agent who is there to evaluate him, but the agent is unimpressed.

The next day, Peggy Sue tries to talk to Charlie but he lashes out, upset over failing to secure a record deal. She leaves to say goodbye to Richard, stating that she wants to stop ruining her life and everyone's around her, especially Charlie's, since the reason he stopped singing is because she got pregnant. Richard proposes, but she turns him down, not wanting to marry so young or derail his future. Peggy Sue visits her grandparents on her 18th birthday. Upon learning that her grandmother is psychic, she tells them her story. Her grandfather takes her to his Masonic lodge, where the members perform a ritual to return her to 1985. Charlie enters the lodge and—when lights go out—picks up and runs out with Peggy Sue, leaving everyone inside believing the ritual worked.

Charlie tells her that he has given up singing and has been given 10% of the family business. He then proposes and gives her the locket she was wearing at the beginning of the film. She looks inside and sees baby pictures of herself and Charlie, which resemble their children. Peggy Sue realizes they love each other. They have sex, proving that she would make the same choices again.

Peggy Sue awakens in a hospital back in 1985, with Charlie at her side. He deeply regrets his infidelity and wants her back.  Peggy Sue and Charlie reconcile.

Michael has written a book dedicated to Peggy and a starry night, indicating that Peggy possibly did travel back in time.

####Phenomenon####
George Malley is a kind, average man who works as an auto mechanic in a small town in Northern California. George has a crush on a single mother in town, Lace. He lets her sell her handmade chairs at his shop, but he secretly buys them and keeps them at his house. She is very closed off and rebuffs George's advances. After celebrating his 37th birthday at a local bar with his best friend, Nate, and father figure, Doc Brunder, he notices a ball of shining bright white lights in the sky. It grows closer and appears to hit him, making a loud sound and knocking him down. Nobody else saw the lights or heard the sound.

George begins to exhibit remarkable levels of intelligence. He easily absorbs vast amounts of information, formulates new, revolutionary ideas, and develops telekinesis. Not needing sleep, he spends each night reading multiple books.

George tries to use his new intelligence for the good of his community. He develops a powerful fertilizer, improves solar panel designs, and predicts an earthquake without any equipment. When Doc is called to aid a sick Portuguese man, George learns the language in minutes and helps translate. He then uses his telekinesis to rescue the man's young relative. George also sets a plan to help Nate get together with Ella, the mother of the Portuguese boy he rescued. Nate has a shortwave radio hobby. While visiting him, George decodes and responds to a signal, though Nate asks him to forget about it out of fear that they might be picking up information from a nearby air force base.

The townsfolk become wary, but George finds support from Doc, Nate and from a growing relationship with Lace, and her children, Al and Glory. George invites Lace to join him on a trip to UC Berkeley to meet with seismologist Professor Ringold about George's earthquake prediction. Before he can go, the FBI takes George and Nate into custody over his code-breaking. He breaks more codes, then astounds Dr. Nierdof by answering a series of difficult quizzes and exams, and shows him his telekinesis. When George threatens to talk to the press, he is finally released. The FBI instructs Dr. Ringold not to let George meet with anyone at Berkeley.

Returning to the local bar, George becomes frustrated with friends' questions about his abilities, and he causes a large mirror to break via telekinesis.

Lace visits him to provide a shave and a haircut. Their innocent intimacy scares her since she has tried so hard to not like him, but it encourages him to stop avoiding the townsfolk. He goes to the county fair to ease fear with a demonstration of his powers, but the crowd goes into a frenzy, demanding his attention and his perceived healing powers. George is knocked to the ground, where he again sees the flashing balls of light before losing consciousness.

George awakens in a hospital. With Lace and Nate there for support, Doc explains that George has a deadly brain tumor. This has caused the lights and stimulated George's phenomenal brain functions. They have called Dr. Wellin, a leading brain surgeon, to see if an operation can save George's life. Dr. Wellin determines there is only a 1 in 500 chance of survival but wants to proceed with an invasive operation solely to do research on George's living brain. When George refuses, saying he still has work to do, the doctor has him declared mentally unfit and held against his will.

George escapes from the hospital and returns home. He spends time with Nate, then goes to Lace's to spend time with her and her children. The FBI agent shows up, but Lace persuades him to let George die in peace.

Professor Ringold arrives at Lace's house, only to learn that he is too late. Lace gives him George's research materials, so he can finish George's breakthrough work.

A year later, George's friends are gathered for what would have been his 38th birthday. Nate, now fluent in Portuguese, is married to a pregnant Ella. Other signs of George's phenomenal impact on the town and its people are seen all around.

####The Philadelphia Experiment####
In 1943, United States Navy sailors David Herdeg and Jim Parker serve aboard destroyer escort USS "Eldridge", docked in Philadelphia. Doctor James Longstreet and his team conduct an experiment to render the ship invisible to radar, but a malfunction causes the ship to disappear. David and Jim's attempts to stop the experiment fail and they jump overboard to escape.

They land during the night in a small town, which also disappears, leaving them marooned in a desert. Startled by the appearance of an unfamiliar aircraft (a helicopter), they flee and Jim is nearly electrocuted by an electric fence. Eventually, they find their way to a roadside diner. An energy discharge from Jim destroys two arcade games, forcing an altercation with the owner. Fleeing to the parking lot, they take a woman named Allison hostage and force her to drive them away. Confused by their surroundings, they are shocked when Allison tells them that the year is 1984. They are tracked and apprehended by the police. Jim, who is suffering increasingly severe seizures, is hospitalized before disappearing from his hospital bed in a flash of light. David and Allison then evade military police, who have arrived to take David into custody.

Learning that they are near Jim's birthplace, Santa Paula California, David decides to try to find his family. Jim's wife Pamela, who is now a senior citizen, immediately recognizes David from 1943. She says that the "Eldridge" had reappeared minutes after disappearing. Jim had also returned and had been chastised and hospitalized after telling the truth about temporarily visiting 1984. David finds that he himself never returned. David sees an elderly Jim outside a window but Jim refuses to speak with him. As David and Allison leave, they see military police approaching and a high speed chase through Jim's ranch ensues. The two manage to elude them when the pursuing vehicle crashes and burns. From the burning wreck, David salvages documents mentioning Longstreet. Recognizing that Longstreet had been involved with the Philadelphia experiment in 1943, David decides to find him. As they spend time together, David and Allison fall in love.

In 1984, Longstreet has attempted to use the same technologies that were used in the "Eldridge" experiment to create a shield as protection from an ICBM attack. When the equipment was tested, the shielded town disappeared into "hyperspace". The scientists are unable to shut down the experiment, which has created a vortex that is drawing matter into it and causes extremely unstable and severe weather. Longstreet predicts that the vortex will continue to expand until the entire world is consumed. The scientists send a probe into the vortex and discover the "Eldridge" inside. They theorize that the two experiments have linked together with the generators on the "Eldridge" powering the vortex.

David captures an assistant at Longstreet's home and forces the man to take them onto the base. Longstreet explains the situation to David and tells him that, according to surviving sailors from the "Eldridge", the ship returned to Philadelphia in 1943 after David shut down the generator. Longstreet says that David must go through the vortex to the "Eldridge" and terminate the experiment or the vortex will destroy the Earth.

David is outfitted with an electrically insulated suit and catapulted into the vortex. He lands on the deck of the "Eldridge", where he finds crew members badly injured. He hurries to the generator room and smashes arrays of vacuum tubes using a firefighting axe. The generator shuts down and David looks for Jim. Assured that Jim is fine, David jumps over the side of the ship and disappears. Back in 1943, Longstreet and others watch the "Eldridge" reappear in Philadelphia, revealing crew members with severe burns, while others have been fused alive into the ship's hull.

In 1984, the missing town reappears as Allison and David are reunited.

####Portrait of Jennie####
In 1934, impoverished painter Eben Adams (Joseph Cotten) meets a fey little girl named Jennie Appleton (Jennifer Jones) in Central Park, Manhattan. She is wearing old-fashioned clothing. He makes a sketch of her from memory which involves him with art dealer Miss Spinney (Ethel Barrymore), who sees potential in him. This inspires him to paint a portrait of Jennie.

Eben again encounters Jennie at intermittent intervals. Strangely, she appears to be growing up much more rapidly than is humanly possible. He soon falls madly in love with her, but is puzzled by the fact that she seems to be experiencing events that he discovers took place many decades previously, as if they had just happened. Eventually he learns the mysterious truth about Jennie and though inevitable tragedy ensues, she continues to be an inspiration to Eben's life and art, and his career makes a remarkable upturn, commencing with his most famous Portrait of Jennie.

####Prelude to a Kiss####
Peter Hoskins, a conservative and self-conscious employee of a Chicago publishing house, attends a party. He meets Rita Boyle, a liberal, seemingly free-spirited part-time bartender who wants to be a graphic designer. They begin a relationship and fall in love. Peter finds himself experiencing greater confidence and optimism with Rita. Falling in love with him, Rita reveals her carefree attitude hides a pessimistic fear of the world. She is afraid to invest too much joy in life when things can go wrong and people can be cruel. For these reasons, she refuses to be a mother and bring children into an unjust world.

On their wedding day, minutes after taking their vows, Rita and Peter are approached by Julius Blier, an elderly man who requests a kiss with the bride. Charmed, Rita agrees. As they kiss, their spirits switch places. Now in an elderly body, a confused and disoriented Rita wanders off, eventually going to the address on Julius' ID. "Rita" and Peter leave for their honeymoon in Jamaica. He realizes his wife's personality and knowledge have changed, a suspicion cemented when "Rita" eagerly suggests they have children together. After they return home, "Rita" seems back to her old self. When they kiss, Peter is certain this is an impostor, realizing this person simply read Rita's diary to improve the masquerade.

Peter goes to the bar where Rita worked, finding the old man Julius. A conversation confirms "Julius" is the real Rita. Peter hopes to switch their souls again, but discovers Julius/"Rita" has left to stay with her parents the Boyles, telling them there are problems with the marriage and separation is needed. They refuse to let Peter see "Rita", taking her in.

Meeting Julius' daughter Leah, Peter learns the elderly man's wife passed away and now has terminal cancer, and only has a year to live. While trying to figure out what to do next, Rita and Peter live together, attempting to adjust to their new situation. The entire experience leads Rita to conclude life is precious and its finite nature can be appreciated rather than feared. Peter, who wondered how he could stay married when he is no longer sexually attracted to his wife, now sees beyond the physical shell and realizes he truly loves the soul within. Meanwhile, the novelty has worn off for Julius'  experiences and obligations of Rita's life, missing his family and independence.

Peter convinces Rita's mother to bring "Rita" to him, saying he wants to fix the marriage. Sympathizing, Mrs. Boyle does so, leaving them alone. Rita and Peter then attempt to force a soul switch again, but Julius admits he doesn't know how it happened in the first place. He came across their wedding while wandering and found himself envious of the bride's youth, as he greatly feared dying. Rita realizes she and Julius both experienced fear and envy at the same moment. While he wanted to be young again, Rita saw him and envied him being an old person who had already survived any obstacle life might create. As Julius and Rita realize they no longer have the fears and envy they experienced that day, they magically return to their rightful bodies. Julius says goodbye as Rita and Peter determine to never take each other for granted and cherish their time together.

####The Princess Bride####
A grandfather reads a novel to his sick grandson, who initially dismisses the story.

The tale is about Buttercup, a young woman living on a farm in the fictional kingdom of Florin during a medieval-like period. Whenever she tells farmhand Westley to do something, he always complies, saying, "As you wish" (which is his way of saying that he loves her).sfn|Elwes|Layden|2014|p=57 The two fall in love, and Westley leaves to seek his fortune overseas so they can marry. When his ship is attacked by the Dread Pirate Roberts, Westley is presumed dead.

Five years later, Buttercup is forcibly betrothed to Florin's Prince Humperdinck. Before the wedding, she is kidnapped by three outlaws: a small Sicilian man named Vizzini, a giant from Greenland named Fezzik, and a Spanish fencing master named Inigo Montoya, who seeks revenge against a six-fingered man who murdered his father. A masked man in black pursues them, as does Prince Humperdinck and his soldiers.

The man in black confronts the outlaws atop the Cliffs of Insanity. He defeats Inigo in a fencing duel and knocks him out, chokes Fezzik into unconsciousness, and tricks Vizzini into drinking a deadly poison. He forcibly flees with Buttercup. Buttercup correctly guesses he is the Dread Pirate Roberts, berates him for killing Westley, and shoves him down a hill. While tumbling down, he shouts, "As you wish!" Realizing he is Westley, she throws herself down after him, and they are reunited.

As they make their way through the dangerous Fire Swamp to avoid Humperdinck and his men, Westley explains how "Dread Pirate Roberts" is an inherited title that he assumed when the previous Roberts wished to retire. Having found Buttercup, Westley intends to pass the title to another. Humperdinck captures the pair after they emerge from the Fire Swamp. Buttercup agrees to return with Humperdinck after he promises to release Westley. Humperdinck secretly orders his sadistic vizier, Count Rugen, to take Westley to his torture chamber, the Pit of Despair. Before being knocked out, Westley notices the six fingers on Rugen's right hand.

When Buttercup threatens suicide if the wedding happens, Humperdinck falsely promises to find Westley for her. His real plan is to start a war with the neighboring country of Guilder by killing Buttercup and framing Guilder for the murder. He had secretly hired Vizzini to do this before Westley interfered. Meanwhile, Fezzik becomes part of the brute squad ordered to clear the thieves' forest before the wedding. He finds a drunk Inigo living in the forest, whom he sobers up and tells about Rugen. Inigo realizes that he and Fezzik need Westley's help to storm the castle.

Buttercup finds out that Humperdinck never intended to search for Westley and calls him a coward. Enraged, Humperdinck imprisons Buttercup and tortures Westley, seemingly to death. Inigo and Fezzik, who followed Westley's screams through the forest, find his body and bring him to Miracle Max, a folk healer. Max is able to revive the "mostly dead" Westley, though he is severely weakened.

As Westley, Inigo, and Fezzik storm the castle, Humperdinck panics and orders the in-progress wedding ceremony to be shortened. Inigo finds and chases Rugen before Rugen throws a knife into Inigo's abdomen. Rugen realizes who Inigo is and taunts him about his father's death. Inigo overcomes the pain and kills Rugen. Westley locates Buttercup, who is about to commit suicide as she believes she is married to Humperdinck. Westley assures her the marriage is invalid because she never completed her wedding vows. Humperdinck finds them, and approaches Westley to kill him. But, Westley wills himself to stand and intimidates Humperdinck into surrendering just before Inigo finds them. They hear Fezzik's voice outside and discover he has procured four white horses for their escape. They leave Humperdinck tied to a chair and jump to safety through the window. Having killed Rugen, Inigo is unsure what to do with his life now. Westley offers him the Dread Pirate Roberts's title. As dawn arises, Westley and Buttercup share a passionate kiss.

Back in his bedroom, the boy eagerly asks his grandfather to read him the story again the next day, to which his grandfather replies, "As you wish."

####Prunella####
As described in a film magazine, Prunella (Clark), who lives in a garden with her three aunts Prim (Berwin), Prude (Harris) and Privacy (Cecil), is carefully guarded from the outside world until the day a troupe of travelling players comes to town. Pierrot (Raucourt), the leader, creeps into the garden and captivates Prunella's heart. She runs off with him and becomes his Pierrette. For two years they wander from country to country. Pierrot tires of his marriage vows and runs away. He finds what a miserable thing life is without her, and he returns to the Dutch gardens and finds her, is forgiven, and they live on, presumably in blissful happiness.

####The Purple Rose of Cairo####
In 1935 New Jersey during the Great Depression, Cecilia is a clumsy waitress who goes to the movies to escape her bleak life and loveless, abusive marriage to Monk, whom she has attempted to leave on numerous occasions.

The latest film Cecilia sees is a fictional RKO film, "The Purple Rose of Cairo". It is the story of a rich Manhattan playwright named Henry who goes on an exotic vacation to Egypt with companions Jason and Rita. While in Egypt, the three meet archaeologist Tom Baxter. Tom is brought back for a "madcap Manhattan weekend" where he falls head-over-heels for Kitty Haynes, a chanteuse at the Copacabana.

After Cecilia sits through the film several times, Tom, noticing her, breaks the fourth wall, and emerges from the inner film's black-and-white world into the full-color real world on the other side of the cinema screen. He tells Cecilia that he is attracted to her after noticing her watching him so many times, and she takes him around her New Jersey town. Later, he takes her into the film and they have a great evening in the town within the film. The two fall in love. But between these two events, the character's defection from the film has caused some problems. In other copies of the film, others have tried to exit the screen. The producer of the film learns that Tom has left the film, and he flies cross-country to New Jersey with actor Gil Shepherd (the "real life" actor playing the part of Tom in the movie). This sets up an unusual love triangle involving Tom, Gil, and Cecilia. Cecilia must choose between them and she decides to choose the real person of Gil rather than the fantasy figure of Tom. She gives up the chance to return with Tom to his world, choosing to stay with Gil and have a "real" life. Then she finally leaves her husband.

But Gil's professions of love for Cecilia were false—he wooed her only to get Tom to return to the movie and thereby save his own Hollywood career. Gil abandons Cecilia and is seen quietly racked with guilt on his flight back to Hollywood. Having been left without a lover, job, or home, Cecilia ends up immersing herself in the frothy escapism of Hollywood once again by going to the movies. Cecilla sits by herself in the theater watching Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers dance to "Cheek to Cheek" in "Top Hat", ultimately losing herself in the charm of the film.

####Return of the Living Dead 3####
Five years after the events of the previous film, Curt Reynolds steals his father's security key card, and he and his girlfriend, Julie Walker, explore the military base where his father works. They observe Curt's father, Colonel John Reynolds, Col. Peck and Lt. Col. Sinclair overseeing an experiment with a deceased body.

The corpse is exposed to 2-4-5 Trioxin gas, which re-animates the corpse into a zombie. The military hopes to use zombies in combat. However, they are impossible to control as their hunger for human brains causes them to constantly attack.

To deter the zombies' vicious nature, Sinclair suggests permanently attaching the zombies to exoskeletons that will immobilize them when they are not in battle. Reynolds prefers a method referred to as "paretic infusion", which involves firing a chemical projectile into the forehead of the zombie. This causes an endothermic reaction, freezing the zombie's brain and temporarily immobilizing it.

When the paretic infusion method is tested on the zombie in the lab, it is only successful for a few moments, wearing off much faster than expected; the zombie breaks free and attacks a scientist, biting his fingers off before bashing his head against a wall, killing him. Infected by the zombie's bite, the scientist re-animates and attacks another technician. The initial zombie and the reanimated scientist are paralyzed with bullets and the survivors in the room are quarantined. Reynolds is removed from the project and reassigned to Oklahoma City, while Sinclair is promoted to head of the project.

Reynolds informs Curt that they will be moving, something they have done multiple times, but Curt refuses. He rides off on his motorcycle with Julie. While they are speeding down the road, Julie playfully grabs Curt's crotch, causing him to lose control of the motorcycle. Julie is thrown from the bike into a telephone pole; the impact kills her.

Curt brings Julie's corpse to the military base. Using his father's key card, he accesses the Trioxin gas to reanimate her. This leads to Julie and Curt dealing with the effects of Julie being dead - not feeling pain and having no desire to eat normal food - and what they are to do about her condition.

Julie becomes hungry and Curt drives them to a store. A gang talk about her as she is eating snacks on the floor. Curt becomes angry and accidentally hits one of them. During the ensuing brawl one of the gang shoots the shopkeeper. Julie bites the shooter. The alarm goes off and the gang flees. While Curt and Julie are in a van with the wounded shopkeeper, Julie is overcome by her hunger for brains and attacks him, eating some of his brains before Curt stops her.

The gang chases Julie and Curt through the city, not realizing what is happening to their infected friend. Julie and Curt hide from the gang in the sewers, where they encounter Riverman, a vagrant who shelters them. Julie discovers that extreme pain seems to temporarily make the cravings to feed on humans go away. She mutilates her flesh with various items of junk found around Riverman's lair, until she is adorned with spikes, nails, and shards of glass sticking out of her flesh.

The gang tracks Julie and Curt down. Julie seduces the gang leader, then kills him and uses her new decorations to kill the rest of the gang. Julie's body becomes accustomed to the pain, and she turns on Riverman, infecting and killing him. The gang re-animates before the military arrive and neutralizes all of the zombies.

When the zombies are captured, Curt realizes Julie is going to be used as a weapon and goes into a rage, freeing the zombies which then kill the soldiers. In the commotion the base is set on fire and Curt is bitten. Curt's father tries to get Curt to leave but he realizes that he would be abandoning Julie, and also knows he is infected. Curt brings Julie to the furnace; when she asks where they are, Curt says "where we belong", and they kiss one last time before dying by immolation.

####Scoop####
Following the memorial service for investigative reporter Joe Strombel, Strombel's spirit finds himself on the barge of death with several others, including a young woman named Jane Cook who believes she was poisoned by her employer, Peter Lyman. Jane tells Strombel she thinks Lyman, a handsome British aristocrat with political ambitions, may be the Tarot Card Killer, a notorious serial killer of prostitutes, and that he killed her when she stumbled onto his secret. The Tarot Card Killer left a card on each murder victim's body.

Sondra Pransky is a beautiful but awkward American journalism student on vacation in London. Pransky attends a performance given by magician Sid Waterman, aka "The Great Splendini", and agrees to participate onstage. While in a booth known as The Dematerializer, Pransky encounters Strombel's ghost. The ghost has escaped the Grim Reaper himself to impart his suspicions of Lyman to a journalist who can investigate the story.#tag:ref|The scene was influenced by one from Federico Fellini's "Nights of Cabiria", in which a stage musician about to be exposed as a fraud performs actual magic.|group=N Sondra decides to infiltrate Lyman's privileged world to find out if he truly is the dreaded criminal, enlisting Sid in the process and taking advantage of his powers of deception.

Sondra catches Lyman's attention by pretending to drown near him at an exclusive club's swimming pool. When he rescues her, she introduces herself as Jade Spence, daughter of a wealthy oil family from Palm Beach. While Sid poses as her father, "Jade" begins dating Lyman. Sondra is convinced Lyman is the murderer, but Sid finds it hard to believe. Sondra gradually falls in love with Lyman and begins to trust him. Sid meanwhile becomes less sanguine about Lyman as he notices more and more inconsistencies, especially after Sondra finds a Tarot deck hidden under a French horn in Peter's vault, a climate-controlled music room containing expensive antique musical instruments. Sid finally prevails upon Sondra to write a news story implicating Lyman, but the newspaper editor rejects the story because of Sondra's lack of proof. Throughout their investigation, Sid and Sondra have a relationship that is in turns friendly, paternal, and antagonistic—fueled largely by Sondra's annoyance that her smooth "Jade Spence" charade is being compromised by Sid's obnoxious attempts to act the part of a nouveau riche oil baron.

Soon the police arrest the real Tarot Card Killer. Sondra, relieved that her suspicions were for naught, reveals her real name and the deception she and Sid had practiced. Lyman is surprisingly gracious, and tells Sondra he wants to keep seeing her. They plan to spend the weekend at Lyman's isolated country estate. Later, Sid (at Strombel's urging) suggests that Lyman used the Tarot Card murders to cover up a murder he committed.

While Sondra and Lyman vacation in the country, Sid continues to investigate this theory. He finds that Lyman did frequent a prostitute, Betty Gibson, who was later killed, apparently by the Tarot Card Killer. Gibson is described as a "baby-faced blonde" (just like Sondra) before Lyman convinced her to dye her hair, presumably to match the profile of the other Tarot victims. When Sid calls Sondra with his findings, she waves them off. Unbeknownst to her, Lyman is listening in on another extension.

Sid breaks into Lyman's vault again, this time finding a mysterious key, which turns out to be to Betty Gibson's flat. Meanwhile, in a rowboat on Lyman's lake, Lyman confesses to Sondra that he killed Gibson to stop her from blackmailing him and used the Tarot Card pattern to allay suspicion, just as Strombel had told Sid. Lyman comments on the irony that he first met Sondra by saving her from drowning, and now she really would drown. He would kill Sid later; no one would connect an obscure stage magician's death to that of a clumsy journalism student. This scene is intercut with shots of Sid driving madly to the Lyman estate to rescue Sondra, ultimately ending in a car crash.

After his confession, Lyman throws Sondra into the lake and watches her go under. He then calls the police to report her drowning death. When they question him, he tells them Sondra was a terrible swimmer and almost drowned that first day at the pool. Suddenly, Sondra enters, soaking wet but smiling cheerfully. She informs Lyman and the police that the drowning had been an act to get his attention, and actually she was a very good swimmer.

Back in the newspaper offices, the editor who previously rejected Sondra's article now congratulates Sondra on a brilliant piece of investigative journalism, the start of a promising career. Sondra seems flattered, and says she must also credit Joe Strombel and the late Sid Waterman, Splendini, who is now a passenger on the Reaper's ship, performing for his fellow spirits the same magical gags and comedy routines he did in life.

####She's Out of My League####
Kirk Kettner is a TSA agent at Pittsburgh International Airport. He attempts to reconcile with his ex-girlfriend Marnie, despite her treating him poorly. Meanwhile, an attractive and successful woman named Molly McCleish arrives at the terminal to board a flight. Kirk is the only TSA agent who does not flirt with or harass her, and saves her from his boss's unwanted advances. After boarding, she realizes she left her cell phone at security, and when her friend Patty calls it for her, Kirk answers. They arrange to meet the following day so he can return it.

The next evening, Kirk and his friend Devon arrive at the Andy Warhol Museum to return Molly's phone. Someone bumps into Kirk, causing him to spill his drink on the museum director. Thinking Kirk did it deliberately, the director tells him and Devon they must leave. As they leave the building, Molly follows them outside. Feeling badly about the misunderstanding, she offers Kirk tickets to a Pittsburgh Penguins hockey game. Kirk brings his friend Stainer to the game, where they meet Molly and her friend Patty. While Stainer and Molly are away from their seats, Patty tells Kirk that Molly is interested in him.

Molly asks Kirk out a few days later and he agrees. Stainer predicts that their relationship will fail—he considers Molly a "10" and Kirk a "5", and that the numerical "chasm" between them is too big. Meanwhile, Patty thinks Molly has  chosen Kirk only because he is "safe" and won't hurt her. On their date, Kirk tells Molly that he dreams of being a pilot; and Molly tells him she almost became a lawyer before realizing her love for event planning. At the end of the night, they kiss in Kirk's car.

Molly accompanies Kirk to a family lunch, where she charms the men and makes Marnie jealous. After returning to Molly's apartment, while making out, Kirk ejaculates prematurely in his pants moments before Molly's parents unexpectedly arrive. Desperate to conceal the stain on his pants, Kirk won't stand to shake hands with Molly's dad, and leaves quickly. Believing he fled to avoid meeting her parents, Molly ignores Kirk's calls. Kirk tracks her down, embarrassingly explains why he had to go, and she forgives him.

At Molly's sister Katie's 21st birthday party, Kirk is troubled by Molly being intentionally vague about Kirk's line of work to her parents. Molly's ex-boyfriend Cam, a stunt pilot, then arrives and alludes to Molly having a physical defect. After the party, they return to Molly's apartment and partially undress. Kirk discovers Molly's "defect" is slightly webbed toes, which Kirk considers so minor that he decides that she is indeed too perfect for him. Upset with Kirk over his insecurities and wishing that there was something wrong with her to justify them being together, Molly confesses that Cam had the same problem. She admits she asked Kirk out because she considered him safe, causing Kirk to break up with her. Kirk resumes his relationship with Marnie and makes plans to attend a family vacation in Branson together.

Later, Stainer asks an ex-girlfriend of his if he was good enough for her, she tells him that his insecurities caused her to end their relationship. Realizing he caused Kirk and Molly's break-up by telling Kirk that Molly was too good for him, Stainer phones Patty and gets her to bring Molly to the airport. Stainer tries to get Kirk off the plane he has boarded, but to no avail. He has Jack stop the plane, causing everyone to have to de-board.  Kirk flees from Marnie, who chases after him, and Kirk breaks up with her in the process. Kirk meets Molly at the terminal gate, where she confesses Kirk's insecurities about himself are justified, but that she wants to be with him regardless. They reconcile and resume their relationship. Later, Kirk surprises Molly with a mystery trip to Cleveland via small aircraft, revealing that he has fulfilled his dream of becoming a pilot.

####The Singing Forest####
Christopher is a widower after his wife of 22 years, Savannah, dies. He begins drinking and becomes obsessed with the theory of past lives. Before long, he is convinced he is actually the reincarnation of a German resistance fighter (Jo) who was hanged by the Nazis for hiding Jews during The Holocaust. His situation becomes even more complex as his daughter Destiny's wedding approaches, and Christopher's sense of déjà vu around her fiancé, Ben, is enough to convince him that he and Ben were gay lovers during a past life. As Christopher becomes increasingly disturbed and goes about seducing his daughter's future husband, he begins to reveal the strange, violent path his life had taken well before his wife died. Ben gives in to Christopher's seduction and eventually visits Christopher's psychic to confirm he really was Jo's lover Alexander in a past life. Destiny discovers their affair and eventually gives them her blessing. In the end, she gives her father away at the church wedding that was originally supposed to be hers. The psychic reveals that Destiny had never really existed. Instead, she had been the spirit of a miscarriage Savannah had after she was raped. The spirit had always been destined to bring Christopher (Jo) and Ben (Alexander) back together in their present lives.

####Sneakerella####
In Queens, teenage El works in his late mother's shoe store "Laces", now run by his stepfather Trey, who overworks El instead of his stepbrothers Zelly and Stacy. El closes the store early to join his best friend and fellow sneakerhead Sami at the release of a new sneaker, where they meet Kira, who is impressed by El's insight into people from looking at their shoes. They miss the drop, but El shows Kira around his neighborhood, losing track of time as they fall for each other.

El is forced to rush back the store without a way to contact Kira, and is grounded by Trey, to his stepbrothers’ delight. Kira returns home, and is revealed to be the daughter of sneaker mogul and former basketball star Darius King. Inspired by El, Kira suggests that her older sister Liv's shoe design is too “basic” and convinces their father to let her look for another original design before the upcoming SneakerCon.

Learning Kira's identity, Sami and El plan to sneak into King's charity gala to find her. Overwhelmed by running the business alone, Trey has decided to sell the store, leading El to draw on memories of his mother and create a unique shoe design, with inspiration and help from the neighborhood. The night of the gala, Zelly and Stacy trap El in the stockroom, but he is rescued by Gustavo, the community garden's magical caretaker. He provides El and Sami with outfits, tickets, and a classic convertible to reach the gala, but warns that they must leave by midnight.

At the event, El's custom-made shoes become the talk of the crowd, as Sami inadvertently spreads rumors that El is a sought-after independent designer. El reunites with Kira, who prepares to introduce him to her father as the designer everyone is talking about, but he and Sami are forced to flee at midnight. El loses one of his shoes on an escalator, which is found by Kira. Determined to track down the young mystery designer, Kira and Liv launch a viral campaign to find her “prince”.

El is unsure how to explain the truth to Kira, but Sami convinces him to reach out to her and arrange a meeting with her father. Realizing El's plan, Zelly and Stacy steal his other shoe, and El arrives just after his stepbrothers have informed Darius that El is merely a stock boy. El tries to explain himself, but Darius and Kira rebuke him for breaking their trust and send him away. As Trey prepares to close the store and move the family back to New Jersey, El throws away his designs, which are found by Gustavo.

Kira's mother suggests that her disappointment in El comes from trying too hard to meet her father's expectations, leading her to realize that she put just as much pressure on El herself. El wakes up to find a pair of sneakers from Gustavo, created from his design inspired by Kira. While Sami distracts his stepbrothers, El races to the King brand sneaker drop, where he and Kira apologize to each other.

Zelly and Stacy take off in the moving truck to confront El, and Sami urges Trey to see how unfairly he has been treating El since his mother's death. El convinces Darius of his good intentions, his talent, and his feelings for Kira, but is interrupted by his stepbrothers. Trey arrives, reining in his sons. He apologizes for being so hard on El, and asks for a second chance to be a real father to El, while Darius declares El his new designer.

One year later, El is in a relationship with Kira, and has transformed Laces into “El-evate”, his own sneaker store pushing new and creative designs for all of Queens.

####Snow White and the Three Stooges####
Once upon a time, in the kingdom of Fortunia, a noble king and his lovely young queen lack but one blessing to make their joy complete. The queen dies giving birth to a daughter named Snow White, the king mourning his beloved before he later remarries at his people's pleas. His new queen is a beautiful but evil woman who soon becomes jealous of Snow White's beauty.

On her 17th birthday, Snow White's father dies and the wicked queen immediately imprisons her. Eventually, the queen's jealousy of her stepdaughter becomes so great that she orders her killed. Snow White escapes her hired assassin and finds refuge in the empty cottage of the seven dwarfs, soon to be joined by the Three Stooges, who are traveling to the castle with their ward Quatro. But the boy they have raised since childhood (also narrowly escaping an assassination attempt by the queen) is actually Prince Charming, who, though he has lost his memory, is betrothed to Snow White.

Snow White and Quatro fall in love, but the queen has him kidnapped upon suspecting his true identity. The Stooges attempt to rescue him disguised as cooks, only to flee with Snow White when Quatro fell from a staircase in the palace and is presumed dead. Curly Joe stole a wish-granting magic sword owned by the queen's court magician Count Oga during that time, inadvertently wishing his group out of the country. The queen learns of this and has Oga turn her into a witch to track down Snow White and kill her. But the moment she left, revealed to rescued by loyalists, Quatro leads a coupe to take back Fortunia with Oga killed during the event.

Meanwhile, the queen finds Snow White and tricks her into taking a bite from a poisoned apple. The queen encounters the Stooges on the way back to the palace, inadvertently killed by Curly Joe's wish on the sword causes her to crashes her broom into the mountainside. The Stooges then find the poisoned Snow White and realized they exhausted the last of the sword's wishes, placing her on a bed instead of burying her. Quatro, exhausting his resources to find Snow White, comes close to giving up hope when he learns of the Evil Queen's magic mirror. The mirror responds truthfully to the desperate Prince's pleas, and the Prince sets off on his journey. He arrives at the Stooges' cabin just in time to dispel the effects of the poisoned apple. Snow White and Prince Charming are married and live happily ever after.

####Somewhere in Time####
In 1972, college theater student Richard Collier celebrates the debut of his new play. An elderly woman Richard does not know comes up and places a pocket watch in his hand and pleads, "Come back to me". The woman returns to her home and dies in her sleep that night.

Eight years later, Richard is a successful playwright living in Chicago. While struggling with writer's block, he decides to take a break from writing and travels to a resort, the Grand Hotel. While exploring the hotel's hall of history, he becomes enthralled with a vintage photograph of Elise McKenna, a beautiful early-20th century stage actress. Upon further research, he discovers she is the same woman who gave him the pocket watch. Richard visits Laura Roberts, Elise's former housekeeper and companion. While there, he discovers a music box that plays the 18th variation of "Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini" by Rachmaninoff, his favorite musical piece. Among Elise's personal effects is a book on time travel written by his old college professor, Dr. Gerard Finney. Richard becomes obsessed with traveling back to 1912 and meeting Elise, with whom he has fallen in love.

Richard seeks out Professor Finney, who believes that he briefly time-traveled through the power of self-suggestion. Finney warns Richard that such a process would leave one very weak physically, perhaps dangerously so. Richard is determined to try. Dressed in an early 20th-century suit, he removes all modern objects from his hotel room and attempts to will himself to 1912 using tape-recorded suggestions. The attempt fails because he lacks real conviction, but after finding a hotel guest book from 1912 containing his signature, Richard realizes that he will eventually succeed.

Richard hypnotizes himself again, this time allowing his absolute faith in his eventual success to serve as the engine that transports him to 1912. Richard finds Elise walking by the lake. Upon meeting him she asks, "Is it you?" Her manager, William Fawcett Robinson, abruptly intervenes and sends Richard away. Although Elise is initially uninterested, Richard pursues her until she agrees to accompany him on a stroll the next morning. During a boat ride, Richard hums his favorite melody by Rachmaninoff, which Elise has not heard before because it has yet to be composed in 1934, but this does not break the spell of the time travel. Richard asks what Elise meant by "Is it you?" She reveals that Robinson had predicted that she would meet a man who will change her life, and that she should be afraid. Richard shows Elise the pocket watch that she will give him in 1972.

Richard attends Elise's play where she recites an impromptu romantic monologue while making eye contact with him in the audience. During the intermission, Elise poses formally for a photograph, but upon seeing Richard, breaks into a radiant smile. It is the same image which Richard sees 68 years later. Afterward, Richard receives an urgent message from Robinson requesting a meeting. Robinson wants Richard to leave Elise, saying it is for her own good. Richard thinks Robinson is in love with Elise, but Robinson states he is obsessed with her being a star and has no romantic interest in her. When Richard declares his intention to stand by Elise for the rest of her life, Robinson has him bound and locked inside the stables. Robinson then tells Elise that Richard has left, though she does not believe him and professes her love for Richard.

Richard wakes the next morning and frees himself. The acting troupe has already left for Denver, though Elise has returned to the hotel to find him. They go to her room and make love. They agree to marry and Elise promises to buy Richard a new suit, as his is about a decade out of style. Inside one of the suit pockets, Richard discovers a penny with a 1979 mint date. This modern item breaks the hypnotic suggestion, pulling Richard into the present as Elise screams in terror.

Richard awakens back in 1980, physically weakened by the time travel. His attempts to return to 1912 are unsuccessful. After despondently wandering the hotel grounds for weeks without eating, he dies in despair, despite Arthur’s efforts to call paramedics to save him. Richard’s spirit then joins Elise in the afterlife.

####The Sorrows of Satan####
Adolphe Menjou stars as Prince Lucio de Rimanez, who is in fact really Satan assuming a human form. When struggling writer Geoffrey Tempest (Ricardo Cortez) is moved to curse God for his misfortunes, Prince Lucio makes a sudden appearance, informing Tempest that he has inherited a fortune. The only proviso is that Tempest must place his fate entirely in the Prince's hands. As he ascends to the uppermost rungs of European society, Tempest is ordered by Lucio to marry Russian Princess Olga (Lya De Putti), even though the writer still loves his sweetheart Mavis Claire (Carol Dempster). Eventually, Prince Lucio reveals his true identity, but not before Olga has committed suicide. After rejecting the devil and all his false promises, Tempest lives happily ever after with Mavis.

####The Soul Collector####
Zach (Bruce Greenwood) is a soul collector: an angel who collects souls to take up to heaven. He is sent to earth to live as a human for thirty days on a Texas cattle ranch. There, he falls in love with ranch owner Rebecca (Melissa Gilbert), a widowed single mother, and influences the lives of her son and the ranch workers.

####Spike####
Through a series of dreamlike images, a girl (Sarah Livingston Evans) and her three friends find themselves stranded in a dark and surrealistic forest by someone — or something (Edward Gusts) — who has obsessively loved, watched, and waited for the girl ever since childhood.

####Splash, Too####
Set four years after the events of the first film, Allen Bauer (Todd Waring) and his wife, Madison (Amy Yasbeck) a mermaid, have been living on a deserted island hideaway. Allen is bored with life on the island and admits he misses New York City and his older brother, Freddie. Madison has the magical ability to view images in water and communicate by running her finger in a circular motion over it; she uses this method to show Allen how things are going on back in New York with Freddie (Donovan Scott).

The family business, Bauer Produce, is in trouble since Allen left. Madison agrees to return to New York so Allen can help his brother. They are welcomed back by Freddie, and Allen manages to attract a potential new customer for Bauer Produce, the wealthy Karl Hooten (Noble Willingham). Karl places importance on all-American family values, so Allen and Madison are to present themselves as a typical happily married couple. Freddie gives them a run-down suburban house for them to move into, which they manage to restore into presentable condition.

Madison agrees to be a housewife and adjust to life on land. She also has to keep her mermaid side a secret, especially from their new neighbor, Mrs. Needler (Doris Belack). When Allen's work takes up more of his time and he breaks some promises to her, his relationship with Madison is strained. Madison finds comfort with her new friend Fern Hooten (Rita Taggart), Karl's wife, who supports Madison's desires to find her own interests.

During a business event at an aquarium, Madison sees one of her dolphin friends, Salty, in one of the tanks. Madison is upset by this, especially because Salty has a mate out in the wild. Karl is one of the benefactors of the aquarium, so Madison asks him to let Salty go. This causes more friction between Madison and Allen, as Bauer Produce still needs Karl's business and Allen does not want to get on Karl's bad side. Madison declares her unhappiness with how Allen is treating her and disregarding her feelings, and leaves off swimming into the ocean.

Allen realizes his mistake and regrets pushing Madison away. When Madison returns to the house, Allen apologizes and the pair reconcile. They sneak into the aquarium, where Dr. Otto Benus (Mark Blankfield) is doing research on Salty, and try to set him free. They are almost caught, but Fern Hooten comes to their aid and helps them get Salty on to a van and out to the ocean.

At the sea front, Salty is released into the ocean and returns to his mate. Madison and Allen talk about their future and agree to be honest. Allen agrees to return to the sea with Madison if that is what she wants, but he would prefer to stay on land. Madison agrees to stay on land with him, as she says "I like it here. I like to learn things.", as she has many things she would like to do, and the pair embraces. Seeing Salty back with his family makes Allen wonder how mermaids have babies. Madison tells him with a smile "You'll see. You'll see." as they embrace again with a kiss.

####Stardust####
The English village of Wall lies near a stone wall that borders the magical kingdom of Stormhold. A guard prevents anyone from crossing. Dunstan Thorne tricks the guard and crosses over the wall to a marketplace. He meets an enslaved princess named Una, who offers him a glass snowdrop in exchange for a kiss. They spend the night together. Nine months later, the Wall guard delivers a baby to Dunstan, saying the baby's name is Tristan.

Eighteen years later, the dying King of Stormhold throws a ruby into the sky, decreeing that his successor will be the first of his fratricidal sons to recover it. The gem hits a star, and both fall out of the sky, landing in Stormhold. The remaining princes, Primus and Septimus independently search for the stone.

In Wall, Tristan and Victoria see the falling star. He vows to retrieve it, in return for her hand in marriage. Tristan learns that his mother is from beyond the wall, but he is not able to get past the guard. He receives a Babylon candle that she left for him, which can take the user to any desired location. Tristan lights it and is transported to the fallen star, personified as a beautiful woman named Yvaine. He uses a magic chain to claim her and to take her to Victoria.

Three ancient witch sisters resolve to eat the fallen star's heart to recover their youth and replenish their powers. Their leader, Lamia, eats the remnants of an earlier star's heart, and sets off to find Yvaine. She conjures up a wayside inn as a trap.

Yvaine becomes tired, so Tristan chains her to a tree and promises to bring food. In his absence, a unicorn releases her, but unwittingly takes her to Lamia's inn. Tristan discovers Yvaine gone, but the stars whisper that she is in danger, telling him to get on a passing coach, which happens to be Primus'. They stop at the inn, interrupting Lamia's attempt to kill Yvaine. Lamia kills Primus, but Tristan and Yvaine use the Babylon candle to escape into the clouds, where they are captured by pirates in a flying ship. The leader, Captain Shakespeare, tells his crew that Tristan is his nephew and Yvaine, a friend. He provides them with new clothes, teaches Tristan how to fence and Yvaine how to dance.

Septimus discovers he is the last surviving son, and only needs to find the stone to claim the throne. He learns it is in the possession of the fallen star and realizes that the heart of a star grants immortality.

After leaving Captain Shakespeare, Tristan and Yvaine confess their love for one another and spend the night together at an inn. Next morning, Tristan leaves Yvaine sleeping and goes with a lock of her hair, to tell Victoria he has fallen in love with Yvaine. When the lock has turned to stardust, he realizes Yvaine will die if she crosses the wall, and rushes back to save her.

Yvaine finds Tristan gone, and–thinking he has abandoned her for Victoria–despondently walks towards the wall. Una notices Yvaine walking to her doom and takes the reins of Ditchwater Sal's caravan to stop her. Lamia kills Sal, and captures Una and Yvaine, taking them to the witches' manor. Septimus and Tristan both pursue Lamia, agreeing to work together for the time being. Barging into the castle, Septimus recognizes Una as his long-lost sister, and Una tells Tristan that she is his mother.

Septimus and Tristan kill two of the witches, but Lamia uses a voodoo doll to kill Septimus. Lamia is about to finish Tristan off, when she appears to break down over the loss of her sisters. Lamia frees Yvaine, but her feigned defeat was a ruse, and she tries to kill them both. As Tristan and Yvaine embrace, their love allows her to shine once again, killing Lamia.

Tristan retrieves the gem that Yvaine was wearing from the floor, and as it turns red, Una reveals that, as her son, Tristan is the last male heir of Stormhold. He becomes king with Yvaine as his queen, and Dunstan and Una are reunited. After eighty years of benevolent rule, they use a Babylon candle to ascend to the sky, where they live together as stars.

####Susie Q####
In the fictional town of Willow Valley, Washington during the year 1955, teenager Susie Quinn prepares for her Winter Formal. She and her boyfriend, Johnny Angel, are oblivious to the fact that an inebriated motorist would soon force their car into a waterway where they subsequently drown. Forty years later, a teenager named Zach Sands moves into that very house with his widowed mother Penny who has a new job as a news reporter. Zach's father had died in a car accident on his way to Zach's basketball game — and Zach feels so guilty he abandons basketball. Now a student at the local high school, Zach befriends the drama group but also makes enemies of the envious Ray Kovich whose father, Roger, is a banker.

While fishing with his younger sister Teri, Zach finds a bracelet that causes Susie's ghost to manifest before Zach. Eventually, Zach researches Susie and discovers that she died 40 years ago. That night, Susie visits Zach again, and proves to him that he is the only one who can see her. Later Susie arrives at Zach's school, where he's distracted by the other girls in school - until Susie rips off part of the winter formal dress she's wearing to get his attention. Susie begs Zach to help her find out what happened to her parents but, while doing so, causes a scene in Zach's class. She apologizes, but continues to cause trouble at school and home until Zach agrees to help.

While visiting Susie's parents, Zach finds out they are facing homelessness at the hands of the local bank because of a missing title deed, and that the bank is demanding an unaffordable $25,000 balloon payment. However, this is only one part of a larger plan, led by Roger, that would eventually destroy the town. Heading back home, Susie confesses that before she died, her grandfather was looking for the deed for Willow Valley. She reveals to Zach that she is still earth-bound because of a mistake she had made in persuading her grandfather to rest, rather than help him find the deed that could have secured her family. Only then, Zach realizes how much Susie needs his help to find the deed and secure her family's legacy. Teri discovers that much of the town's land legally belongs to the Quinn family, and it becomes a fierce race to the finish as Zach locates the requisite title deed. It draws the attention of the police; meanwhile Roger is warned and makes his own plans. After the police arrest Zach and Teri, Susie manages to save them by scaring the officer into letting them go free.

Finally, Zach and Teri make it to the local news station just in time to provide their mother with all of the information about the Quinn family's history, which is broadcast on live television. In the aftermath, the bankers give up and apologize to the Quinns, the Kovich family leave town in an attempt on Roger's part to avoid criminal prosecution and Zach returns to playing basketball in honor of his late father. Thanks to Susie providing Zach with her father's old playbook, the team wins. With her mistake rectified, Susie returns to the bridge where she died. Zach follows her there and asks her what will happen to him now that she's leaving for heaven. Susie tells him that his life is just beginning and she is sure he can continue playing basketball for both her and his late father. Susie reunites with the spirits of her boyfriend, Johnny and her grandfather in Johnny's car. Before the ghostly trio depart for heaven, Susie gives Zach her bracelet and bidding him an emotional farewell, vice versa Zach admits he loves her. In the car, her grandfather briefly awakens and calls Susie by her mother's name, Betsy. She corrects him by telling him that her name is Susie and tells him to go back to sleep because they have a long trip ahead. In the closing scene, Zach meets a girl who looks identical to Susie and introduces herself as Maggie. It is presumed that Susie got reincarnated as Maggie.

####Tangled Ever After####
On Rapunzel's and Eugene's wedding day, Pascal and Maximus are the ring bearers and are spreading the flowers. When the priest starts talking, one of the flowers falls and Maximus sniffs it and he sneezes causing the rings to be launched outside of the castle. While in shock, the priest asks them for the rings, only to find them gone. The Queen complains that it was her grandmother's wedding rings and one of the guards says that the kingdom is lost. This causes a lot of chaos around the kingdom and explosions start to happen, but it was revealed to be Maximus' daydream. With more time, they go after the rings only to be launched in two directions.

One of them lands in a pot of soup and Pascal goes after it. When coming out, he causes chaos around the tables and finally retrieves the ring, only to find his tongue stuck in ice. Meanwhile, Maximus runs after the other ring, but he runs into shoes, make-up, hats and dresses and he is now dressed as a lady. A male horse mistakes Maximus for a female and falls in love with him, but he kicks him and goes after the ring. Pascal finally gets his tongue off the ice, but he lands on a waiter's foot, causing him to drop the lintels on the ice and it launches into the air. Maximus manages to retrieve the other ring, but the ice sculpture lands on a catapult he is sitting on and is launched into the air and passes the windows where the ceremony is. He lands in a carriage and goes after the ring.

Meanwhile, Pascal goes after the ring and it lands on a girl's lantern. He chases after it, only for him to be shocked when he finds out it is in hundreds of lanterns. Maximus manages to retrieve the ring, but his face gets knocked by several frying pans before hitting a giant frying pan. This causes a few residents to think it was a gong and they release the doves and the lanterns. Pascal finally finds the ring, but realizes he is very high. Meanwhile, the carriage Maximus is in finally stops and is launched into the air (passing Pascal, but he doesn't know that and looks at the camera). He lands on a decoration and a flock of doves passes Pascal, causing him to lose the ring. It hits a wind vane, a fountain, a decoration and a hook and finally lands on a dove's foot.

Maximus hits the ground, but the hook that the ring landed on causes barrels of juice to chase Maximus and Pascal. When coming to a dead end, Maximus uses one of the decorations as a slingshot and launches them into the air for Pascal to grab the ring. Unfortunately, he misses, but he uses his tongue to grab it. Now with both rings secured, they land in a tar factory. Just as the priest finishes, he asks for the ring, only to find Pascal and Maximus covered in tar and they hand them the rings. The priest declares them husband and wife and they kiss. Just as everybody cheers, Maximus accidentally causes the cake trolley to roll out of the castle.

####Three Thousand Years of Longing####
Alithea Binnie is a British scholar who occasionally suffers from hallucinations of demonic beings. During a trip to Istanbul, Alithea purchases an antique bottle and unleashes the Djinn trapped within it. The Djinn offers to grant Alithea three wishes, so long as each one is truly her heart's desire, but Alithea argues that wishing is a mistake, accusing the Djinn of being a trickster. She tells him that when she was a child, she built herself an imaginary friend in the form of young boy and even imagined his whole life (which she wrote in a diary) but she finally decided to forget about him, fearing to be overwhelmed by her own imagination. In response, the Djinn proceeds to tell her three tales of his past and how he ended up trapped in the bottle.

The Djinn tells the story of the Queen of Sheba, his cousin and lover, being wooed by King Solomon, who imprisons the Djinn in a bottle which is cast into the Red Sea by a bird. The Djinn's second story centers on Gülten, a concubine in the palace of Suleiman the Magnificent. After finding the Djinn's bottle, Gülten wishes for Suleiman's son, Mustafa, to fall in love with her and subsequently wishes to bear his child. Hürrem Sultan, a favored concubine of Suleiman, schemes to have her son on the throne and convinces Suleiman that Mustafa is conspiring against him; this results in Mustafa's murder. Despite the Djinn's attempts to save her, the pregnant Gülten is also killed on Suleiman's orders before she can make her final wish.

The Djinn wanders the palace for over 100 years, invisible due to the concealment of the bottle. He almost captures the attention of Murad IV, but the latter goes to war and becomes a vicious and ruthless ruler, later dying from alcoholism. His brother Ibrahim becomes the new sultan and develops a fetish for fat concubines. His favorite among them, Sugar Lump, uncovers the bottle, whereupon the Djinn appears to her and desperately begs her to make a wish. Sugar Lump thinks him a trickster and wishes for the Djinn to be reimprisoned in his bottle at the bottom of the Bosporus.

In the Djinn's final story, he tells of Zefir, the wife of a Turkish merchant, who is given the bottle after it is recovered in the mid-19th century. Zefir wishes first for knowledge, which the Djinn grants in the form of literature, and later to perceive the world as djinns do. Despite the Djinn's growing affection for Zefir and the fact she is now pregnant with his child, she grows increasingly crowded by his presence and her newfound knowledge. The Djinn offers to reside in his bottle whenever she wishes, but Zefir wishes to forget she met the Djinn, leaving him imprisoned and unknown once again. The Djinn's final story moves Alithea to the point where she wishes for the Djinn and herself to fall in love, resulting in them having sex.

Afterwards, the Djinn and Alithea decide to travel back to London together. At the airport Alithea has placed the Djinn inside a saltshaker bottle and placed the bottle without the top in one pocket and the top in her other pocket which sets off the sensors when she goes through airport security. An airport security officer investigates the saltshaker by placing a pencil inside and then places the top on the bottle, which he sends through the X-ray machine despite Alithea’s pleas.

One day, Alithea discovers that the Djinn is gradually becoming weaker due to the effects that the city's cell tower and satellite transmissions have when interacting with his electromagnetic physiology. She uses her second wish to get the severely ill Djinn to speak again, apologizes for using her wish to deny them the chance to fall in love naturally, and uses her third and final wish to set the Djinn free, so he is able to return to "The Realm of Djinn".

Three years later, Alithea has written a book containing all the stories that the Djinn told her, like she once did with her childhood imaginary friend. Though expecting never to see him again, the now-healthy Djinn visits Alithea three years later and periodically returns throughout her lifetime.

####Time After Time####
In 1893 London, popular writer Herbert George Wells displays a time machine to his skeptical dinner guests. After he explains how it works (including a "non-return key" that keeps the machine at the traveler's destination and a "vaporizing equalizer" that keeps the traveler and machine on equal terms), police constables  arrive at the house searching for Jack the Ripper. A bag with blood-stained gloves belonging to one of Herbert's friends, a surgeon named John Leslie Stevenson, leads them to conclude that Stevenson might be the infamous killer. Wells races to his laboratory, but the time machine is gone.

Stevenson has escaped to the future, but because he does not have the "non-return" key, the machine automatically returns to 1893. Herbert uses it to pursue Stevenson to November 5, 1979, where the machine has ended up on display at a museum in San Francisco. He is deeply shocked by the future, having expected it to be an enlightened socialist utopia, only to find chaos in the form of airplanes, automobiles and a worldwide history of war, crime and bloodshed.

At a bank, Herbert exchanges some British bank notes for present-day American money. Growing hungry after a day without food, he enters a McDonald's and is alternately puzzled and pleased with 1979 dining options, noting the similarity between 1890s "pommes frites" from France and modern French fries. Wells is also perplexed and equally impressed by the construction of the table.

Reasoning that Stevenson would also need to exchange his British money, Herbert asks about him at various banks. At the Chartered Bank of London, he meets employee Amy Robbins, who says she had directed Stevenson to a local hotel, the Hyatt Regency and being smitten with Herbert, also gives him her card saying that he should “give her a ring”.

Confronted at the hotel by his one-time friend Herbert, Stevenson confesses that he finds modern society to be pleasingly violent, stating: "Ninety years ago, I was a freak. Today, I'm an amateur."

Herbert demands he return to 1893 to face justice, but Stevenson instead attempts to wrestle the time machine's key from him. Their struggle is interrupted by a maid and Stevenson flees, getting hit by a car during the frantic chase. Herbert follows him to the hospital emergency room and mistakenly gets the impression that Stevenson has died from his injuries.

Herbert meets up with Amy Robbins again and she initiates a romance. Stevenson returns to the bank to exchange more money. Suspecting that it was Amy who had led Herbert to him, he frightens her in telling her to give Herbert a message and later, finds out where she lives.

Herbert, hoping to convince her of the truth, takes a highly skeptical Amy three days into the future. Once there, she is aghast to see a newspaper headline revealing her own murder as the Ripper's fifth victim.

Herbert persuades her that they must go back – it is their duty to attempt to prevent the fourth victim's murder, then prevent Amy's. However, they are delayed upon their return to the present and can do no more than phone the police. Stevenson kills again, and Herbert is arrested because of his knowledge of the killing. Amy is left alone, totally defenseless, and at the mercy of the "San Francisco Ripper".

While Herbert unsuccessfully tries to convince the police of Amy's peril, she attempts to hide from Stevenson. When the police finally do investigate her apartment, they find the dismembered body of a woman. Now convinced of Herbert's innocence, the police release a now-heartbroken Wells. However, he is contacted by Stevenson, who had actually killed Amy's coworker (revealed to be the dead body in Amy's apartment) and taken Amy hostage in order to extort the time machine key from Wells.

Stevenson flees with the key – and Amy as insurance – to attempt a permanent escape in the time machine. Using Amy's car, driving the unfamiliar machine erratically, Herbert manages to follow them back to the museum. While Herbert bargains for Amy's life, she is able to escape. As Stevenson starts up the time machine, Herbert removes the "vaporizing equalizer" from it, causing Stevenson to vanish while the machine does not. As Herbert had explained earlier, this causes the machine to remain in place while its passenger is sent traveling endlessly through time with no way to stop; in effect, he is destroyed.

Herbert proclaims that the time has come to return to his own time, in order to destroy a machine that he now knows is too dangerous for primitive mankind. Amy pleads with him to take her along, explaining she has no remaining ties in the 20th century. The film ends with the caption: "H.G. Wells married Amy Catherine Robbins, who died in 1927. As a writer, he anticipated socialism, global war, space travel, and women's liberation. He died in 1946."

####The Time Traveler's Wife####
In the early 1970s, Henry DeTamble is in a car accident that kills his mother, Annette DeTamble, but which he survives by inadvertently time traveling back two weeks. Moments later, Henry is helped by an older version of himself who has also traveled back. Unable to control the timing or destinations of his traveling, Henry finds himself drawn to significant people, places, and events in his life but is incapable of changing events beyond the minor differences his presence creates.

In 1991, Henry meets Clare Abshire in the library where he works. She is overjoyed to see him although he is meeting her for the first time. Clare explains that she met Henry's future self when she was a child, and that he informed her then that they would meet in the future, which is happening now.  As a child, Clare develops a crush on Henry, and she is upset to learn that he is married. When Clare turns 18, two years before their meeting at the library, the older Henry kisses her, leading her to realize that he is her husband in the future. They begin a relationship, which is challenged by Henry's disorder.

His sporadic time traveling is further complicated by the fact that he arrives at his destinations completely naked. From an early age, he had learned how to pick locks and to steal clothing to endure his travels. Among his getaways are many visits to young Clare. From present-day Clare's diary, he gets a list of dates when he visited her and gives those to young Clare so that she can be waiting for him with clothes. Clare eventually marries Henry. Henry time travels away before the ceremony and a visibly older version of himself arrives in time to step in.

Henry's disappearances take a toll on his relationship with Clare. To make up for this, Henry buys a winning lottery ticket due to having the numbers in advance, but their relationship still has problems. Henry and Clare witness a middle-aged wounded Henry briefly arrive from another time, leaving them concerned about how long Henry must live. His disorder also makes having a child with Clare seemingly impossible, as Henry's genes cause their unborn fetuses to time travel. They seek a renowned doctor's help, but after numerous similar miscarriages, Henry has a secret vasectomy to end their suffering. However, soon after, Clare gets pregnant one last time—by a visiting younger version of Henry—and carries the baby to full term. Before the child is born, Henry travels forward in time and happily meets their pre-teen daughter, Alba. She tells him that she is a time traveler, too, but has increasing control over when and where she travels. Alba tells Henry that he will die when she is five years old, a fact that Henry subsequently hides from Clare.

Alba's pre-teen self, who ultimately tries to prepare her younger self for Henry's death, visits young Alba sporadically. During Alba's fifth birthday party with family and friends Clare is devastated to discover Henry's impending death. Later, after suffering from severe frostbite from a time jump gone wrong and temporarily using a wheelchair, Henry time travels again and is accidentally shot by Clare's father, who is hunting elk.  Henry returns in time to die in Clare's arms. Some years later, a younger Henry visits Alba and Clare, giving Clare hope that he will visit again, though he tells her not to spend her life waiting for him, hoping this encounter would provide a proper closure for Clare and Alba.

####Topper####
George and Marion Kerby are as irresponsible as they are rich. When George wrecks their classy sports car, they wake up from the accident as ghosts. Realizing they are not in heaven or hell because they have never been responsible enough to do good deeds or bad ones, they decide that freeing their old friend Cosmo Topper from his regimented lifestyle will be their ticket into heaven.

Topper, a wealthy bank president, is trapped in a boring job. Worse still, Clara, his social-climbing wife, seems to care only about nagging him and presenting  a respectable façade. On a whim, after George and Marion die, Topper buys George's flashy sports car. Soon he meets the ghosts of his dead friends, and immediately they begin to liven up his dull life with drinking and dancing, flirting and fun.

The escapades lead quickly to Cosmo's arrest, and the ensuing scandal alienates his wife Clara. However, because of Topper's scandal, some of the people Clara would like to socialize with now become interested in her and Topper. Cosmo moves out into a hotel with Marion who claims she is no longer married since she is dead. Clara fears she has lost Cosmo forever. The Toppers' loyal butler suggests that she lighten up a bit; she decides he's right and dons the lingerie and other attire of "a forward woman". After Cosmo has a near-death experience and nearly joins George and Marion in the afterlife, Cosmo and Clara are happily reunited, and George and Marion, their good deed done, gladly depart for heaven.

####Twilight####
Seventeen-year-old Bella Swan leaves Phoenix, Arizona and moves to Forks, a small town located on Washington state's Olympic Peninsula, to live with her father, Charlie, the town's police chief. Her mother, Renée, is remarried to Phil, a minor league baseball player whose career often keeps them on the road.

Bella becomes re-acquainted with Jacob Black, a Native American teen who lives with his father, Billy, on the Quileute Indian Reservation near Forks. She makes friends at her new high school, but finds the mysterious and aloof Cullen siblings particularly intriguing. Bella is seated next to Edward Cullen in biology class on her first day, but he seems repulsed by her. After a week's absence from school, Edward returns and socializes normally with Bella. A few days later, she is nearly struck by a skidding van in the school parking lot. Edward instantaneously covers a distance of over thirty feet, putting himself between Bella and the van, stopping it with only his hand. He subsequently refuses to explain his actions to her, warning her against befriending him. Jacob tells Bella about a long-standing animosity between the Cullens and the Quileutes, and says the Cullens are not allowed on the reservation.

Edward appears out of nowhere and saves Bella a second time. After much research, Bella concludes that Edward has mysterious powers that resemble a vampire's. He eventually confirms this, but says that he and the other Cullens only consume animal blood. They fall in love, and Edward introduces Bella to his vampire family. Carlisle Cullen, the family patriarch, is a doctor at the Forks hospital. Esme is Carlisle's wife and the family matriarch. Alice, Jasper, Emmett, and Rosalie are their informally-adopted children. The family's reaction to Bella is mixed, concerned that the family's secret could be exposed.

Edward and Bella's relationship is jeopardized when three nomadic vampires—James, Victoria, and Laurent—arrive in the Forks area, and are responsible for a series of deaths being investigated as animal attacks. James, a tracker vampire with incredible hunting instincts, is excited by Bella's scent and becomes obsessed with hunting her for sport. Edward and the other Cullens protect Bella, but James tracks her to Phoenix, where she is hiding with Jasper and Alice.

James lures Bella into a trap at an old ballet studio. He attacks her, infecting her with vampire venom. Edward arrives and, after a ferocious battle, subdues James just as other Cullens arrive. Alice, Emmett, and Jasper kill James, decapitating and burning him, as Edward removes the venom from Bella's wrist, preventing her becoming a vampire. In the aftermath, she has suffered a broken leg and is hospitalized. Upon returning to Forks, Edward accompanies Bella to the high school prom, where he refuses her request to transform her into a vampire. They are unaware that James' mate, Victoria, is secretly watching them, plotting revenge for her lover's death.

####The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 1####
Several months after the events of the previous film, Bella Swan and Edward Cullen are happily getting married. During the reception, Jacob Black, who had left town upon receiving an invitation to the wedding, returns, much to Bella’s delight.  They share a dance in the woods, where Bella shares that she and Edward plan to consummate their marriage on their honeymoon while she is still human. Jacob becomes furious, knowing that such an act could kill her.

After the wedding, Bella and Edward travel to Isle Esme for their honeymoon, and they make love for the first time. Two weeks later, Bella vomits after waking and notices that her period is late. She informs Carlisle, Edward's adoptive father, that she believes she is pregnant. Edward is distraught, as it is highly unlikely a human will survive giving birth to a vampire's baby.

Edward encourages Bella to receive an abortion from Carlisle; she refuses, and convinces Edward's sister Rosalie to be her bodyguard. They fly back home to Forks, where Jacob rushes to the Cullens' house to find a pale, underweight, and visibly pregnant Bella. He implores her to terminate the pregnancy immediately, but Bella opts to continue it.

Jacob storms out of the Cullens' residence and meets in the woods with his packmates. Sam believes the baby will not be able to control its craving for human blood once it is born and suggests they kill Bella to ensure her child does not harm anyone. Jacob refuses, and the ensuing arguments prompts him and several other wolves to disperse from Sam's pack to form their own.

As Bella's pregnancy progresses, her health declines rapidly. She soon realizes the baby is craving blood, and begins drinking human blood obtained by Carlisle from the hospital, improving her health. As a half-vampire, the fetus's development is far more accelerated than that of a human fetus, and thus Bella’s pregnancy progresses at an alarming rate. Edward's resentment for the baby dissolves when he discovers he can read its thoughts.

When Bella suddenly goes into labor, Edward, Jacob, and Rosalie begin performing an emergency cesarean section while Carlisle is out obtaining blood. The procedure is excruciatingly painful, and Bella falls unconscious, though she wakes to find she has delivered a healthy daughter, whom she names Renesmee (a combination of her mother's name and Edward's mother's name).

Bella’s heart suddenly stops, and Jacob desperately attempts CPR. Edward injects Bella's heart with his venom in an attempt to transform her into a vampire, but his action appears to be futile as Bella remains lifeless. A distraught Jacob decides to kill Renesmee for apparently causing Bella's death; however, when they look into each other's eyes, he imprints on her, preventing his pack from killing her as their most absolute law is not to harm anyone who has been imprinted on.

Over the course of two days, Bella's injuries heal and her figure returns to normal. Finally, her eyes become blood-red, signifying that she has become a vampire.

In a post-credits scene, the Volturi's secretary Bianca delivers a message from Carlisle which summarizes Bella and Edward's wedding and Bella's transformation into a vampire. Aro has Bianca killed by Demetri and Felix for misspelling Carlisle's name. The two other Volturi banter about how Carlisle is growing his coven and that the Volturis' dispute with the Cullens is over. However, Aro disagrees, saying they still have something he wants.

####The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 2####
The movie continues from the events of the previous film, as Bella, who has just given birth, awakens from her human-to-vampire transformation. After Edward helps her satisfy her initial thirst, Bella is introduced to her daughter Renesmee. The rest of the Cullens and Jacob stay nearby, and when Jacob acts possessively towards Renesmee, Bella learns he has imprinted on her, making her furious until he explains he has no ill intentions.

Meanwhile, Bella's father, Charlie, has been trying to contact the Cullens for updates on Bella's health. Carlisle announces that they have to leave Forks, Washington, to protect their identities - especially because of Charlie. Jacob, desperate not to lose Renesmee, visits Charlie and tells him that Bella is alive and well, but that she had to change in order to get better. Jacob also tells him he doesn't live in the world he thinks he does, and then reveals his wolf form to him. Charlie goes to the Cullen house to see Bella and meet Renesmee. He accepts that Bella is now recovered and this is her chosen life, but he does not know what has changed her or where Renesmee came from, but she's 'adopted'.

Several months pass with Carlisle monitoring Renesmee's rapid growth. On an outing in the woods, a bitter Irina sees Renesmee from a distance and assumes she's an immortal child. Immortal children were vampires who were changed in childhood, and because they could not be trained nor restrained, they slaughtered entire villages. The creation of such children is outlawed by the Volturi and anyone caught with one is to be executed.

Irina goes to the Volturi, reporting what she has seen. Alice gets a vision of the Volturi and Irina coming to kill the Cullens and instructs the others to gather as many witnesses as they can to testify that Renesmee is not an immortal child. Alice and Jasper then leave to gather evidence of this. The Cullens begin to summon witnesses, such as the Denali family. One of the Denalis, Eleazar, later discovers that Bella has a special ability: a powerful mental shield that had protected her from Edward's mind-reading even when she was human, which she is taught to extend to protect others from vampire powers.

The Volturi, led by Aro, arrive in Forks prepared for battle. Seeing the large group of vampires (the Cullens and their witnesses) and wolves, they stop their procession. They are able to prove to Aro that Renesmee is not an immortal child; however, the Volturi are eager to add the gifted members of the Cullen coven to the guard, so they execute Irina in an attempt to provoke a battle. Before a fight breaks out, Alice and Jasper return and Alice shows Aro her visions of the future.

In this violent vision, she and Jasper are arrested for attacking Aro after Alice finds out he will not change his decision and kicks him in the face. Carlisle tries to save them but is murdered by Aro. Jasper is beheaded by Demetri and Jane. Alice and Sam together avenge Jasper by killing Jane. Caius is partially beheaded by Tanya (a member of the Denalis) as revenge for Irina's execution. Seth is killed by Felix. Leah saves Esme's life but loses hers in the process. Marcus welcomes his death as he is torn to pieces by Vladimir and Stefan. Aro tries to kill Edward but a joint effort from Bella and Edward kills him. The vision ends with Bella burning Aro's detached head as other Volturi members try to grab her from behind.

Aro, despite being afraid of the vision future, still wants to execute Renesmee as she might become savage. Alice and Jasper reveal their final witness, Nahuel, a half-human half-vampire just like Renesmee. He proves that he is not a threat, supporting the notion that Renesmee is not one either. The Volturi unhappily leave, Aro fearfully explaining that there will be no battle today.

Back at the Cullen home, Alice glimpses the future, seeing Edward and Bella greeting Jacob and a fully matured Renesmee, also a couple, on a sun-dappled beach. Edward reads Alice's mind and feels relieved that Renesmee has Jacob to protect her. Alone in the meadow, Bella pushes her mental shield away and finally allows Edward to see into her mind, showing him every moment they have shared together. They kiss after Bella tells him, "nobody has ever loved anybody as much as I love you", and he says "with one exception."

####The Twilight Saga: Eclipse####
In Seattle, not far from Forks, Victoria attacks Riley Biers, so she can begin to create an army of newborns with him to get her revenge on Edward Cullen for killing her true love James.

Back in Forks, Edward and Bella Swan discuss the complications of becoming an immortal vampire. At 18 years old, one year older than Edward was when he became a vampire, Bella expresses her aversion to the idea of marrying so young. Edward refuses to turn her into a vampire until they are married, his argument that she should have various human experiences she would otherwise miss. While Charlie Swan investigates the disappearance of Riley Biers, Edward suspects his disappearance was caused by the newborn vampires, furthering his suspicions is Riley's intrusion into Bella's room.

Although Edward fears for her safety, Bella insists that Jacob Black and the rest of the werewolf pack would never harm her, but Edward is still unconvinced. Bella goes to La Push to see Jacob and returns home unharmed. During one of her visits, Jacob confesses he is in love with her, and forcefully kisses her. Furious, Bella punches him and sprains her hand, and Edward later threatens Jacob if he ever touches her without her consent again and tells him to wait for Bella to give it to him. She even revokes the invitations for Jacob and his pack members to her graduation party, but when he apologizes for his behavior, she forgives him.

Meanwhile, Alice sees a vision of the newborn army attacking Forks led by Riley Biers. Jacob, accompanied by Quil and Embry overhear this, which leads to an alliance between the Cullens and Wolf pack. Later, the Cullens and the wolves agree to a meeting place and time to train and discuss strategy.

During the training Jasper explains to Bella that he was created by a vampire named Maria to control a newborn army. He hated his original existence and upon meeting Alice, joined the Cullens with her. Bella sees the true bond between a mated vampire pair and begins to understand Jasper better. Despite her reluctance to marry, Bella realizes that spending eternity with Edward is more important to her than anything else and agrees to marry him.

Edward and Bella camp up in the mountains to hide her from the bloodthirsty newborns. During the night, she overhears a conversation between Edward and Jacob, in which they temporarily put aside their hatred towards each other. In the morning, Jacob overhears Edward and Bella discussing their engagement and takes off. She desperately asks him to kiss her, realizing she has fallen in love with him. Edward finds out about the kiss but is not upset, as Bella tells him her love for Jacob is not as strong as her love for him.

When Victoria appears, Edward kills her while Seth kills Riley. The Cullens and the Quileute wolves, meanwhile, destroy her "army", though Jacob is injured saving Leah Clearwater from a newborn. Several members of the vampire police, the Volturi, arrive to deal with the newborn army. They also see that the Cullens are guarding the newborn, Bree Tanner, who had refused to fight and surrendered to Carlisle and Esme. Jane tortures her to collect information, then instructs Felix to kill her, despite the Cullens' efforts to spare her.

When Jane notes that Caius will find it interesting that Bella is still human, Bella informs her the date for her transformation has been set. She visits the injured Jacob to tell him that even though she is in love with him, she has chosen to be with Edward. Heartbroken but willing to accept her choice, Jacob reluctantly agrees to stop trying to come between her and Edward.

Bella and Edward go to their meadow, where she tells him she has decided to do things his way: get married, have sex, then be transformed into a vampire. She also explains that she never has been normal and never will be; she's felt out of place her entire life, but when she is in Edward's world she feels stronger and complete. At the end of the film they decide they need to tell Charlie about their engagement.

####The Twilight Saga: New Moon####
On her eighteenth birthday, Bella Swan awakens from a dream where she is an old woman and Edward Cullen, her immortal vampire boyfriend, is forever young. Despite her lack of enthusiasm, Edward's family host a birthday reception for her at their residence. While unwrapping a gift, she receives a paper cut. Edward's foster brother, Jasper, is overwhelmed by the scent of Bella's blood and attempts to attack her but is restrained. Believing that he and his family are putting her life in danger, Edward ends their relationship, and the Cullens leave Forks.

Bella is left severely depressed and isolated for months. Her concerned father, Charlie, wants to send Bella to live with her mother in Jacksonville, Florida. She refuses, promising to spend more time with her other school friends. After she and Jessica see a movie, Bella approaches some rough-looking bikers outside the theater, much to Jessica's dismay. The dangerous encounter reminds Bella of a previous near-assault where Edward rescued her. She imagines seeing and hearing him and realizes that thrill-seeking activities evoke his image.

Bella's Quileute friend Jacob Black helps ease her pain by engaging her in various activities. He says that many of his friends follow and obey Sam, another Quileute. While attending a movie with Bella and Mike, Jacob abruptly leaves after becoming inexplicably upset and suffering a burning fever. Bella drives to his home after he avoids seeing her. Jacob has cut his long hair and now has the same Quileute tattoo on his upper right arm as Sam and other tribe members. He tells Bella to stay away.

When Bella hikes to the meadow that she and Edward often visited, she is confronted by Victoria's vampire companion Laurent. As he is about to kill her, a wolf pack appears and attacks him. Bella eventually discovers that Jacob and the other tribe members are giant werewolves. Their age-old enemies are vampires, though a treaty exists between the Cullens and the tribe. Jacob's pack members are currently on alert for Victoria, the vampire seeking to avenge her mate, James, whom Edward killed to protect Bella. With Jacob focused on adapting to his new shape-shifting powers, Bella again finds herself alone and returns to seeking thrill-inducing activities, deliberately oblivious to Victoria's presence.

Through a series of miscommunications, Edward believes that Bella has killed herself after Edward's sister Alice has a vision of Bella jumping off a seaside cliff. Distraught, Edward travels to Italy to ask the Volturi (a powerful coven that act as vampiric overlords) to end his life, as he is incapable of doing so himself. When they refuse his request, he plans to force their hand by exposing himself as a vampire to humans during a large festival. Alice returns to Forks, shocked to find Bella is still alive.

Alice and Bella travel to Italy to save Edward, arriving in time to prevent him from revealing himself as a vampire. Overjoyed that Bella is alive, he confesses that he left Forks out of concern for her and promises never to leave again. Edward defends Bella from Felix, one of the Volturi, as the Volturi do not allow humans to confide in vampire society, but Edward is easily overpowered. As the Volturi are about to kill him, Bella asks that they kill her instead.

Impressed by a human's willingness to sacrifice her life for a vampire, the Volturi determine that Bella, knowing that vampires exist, must either be killed or be transformed into a vampire. Alice shares her vision of Bella as a vampire with Aro, a Volturi elder able to read thoughts through touch. Aro decides to let them go after extracting a promise that Bella be turned eventually. After returning to Forks, Bella asks the Cullens to vote on her becoming a vampire. Much to Edward and Rosalie’s chagrin, everyone votes yes.

Jacob reminds Edward that the years-old treaty with Quileute will be broken if any Cullen bites a human, but Bella tells Jacob it is her choice, not the Cullens'.

At the meadows, Edward admits that he will let Bella transform into a vampire only if she agrees to marry him. Initially Bella refuses, but contemplates doing so afterwards (serving as the plot for the next movie).

####The Two Worlds of Jennie Logan####
Michael Logan and his wife, Jennie, are trying to salvage their marriage after Jennie finds out about Michael's infidelity.  They move into an old Victorian house in rural New England. In the attic, Jennie, who is a Victorian at heart, finds an authentic Victorian white dress under a protective cover, thick with dust. The dress is intact except for one small tear at the shoulder.

After having the dress repaired, Jennie decides to wear it and admires herself in the mirror in the attic. She develops an excruciating headache, and the room swirls around her. When the headache ceases, she finds herself still up in the attic and in the dress, but the attic is now an artist's studio, complete with Victorian decor. She hears a woman scream and a man's voice downstairs yelling, "Pamela." Terrified, Jennie shuts her eyes and finds herself back in the present.

At first she assumes she was dreaming or hallucinating, yet Jennie experiences further similar episodes. She decides to learn more about her new house and goes to the local historical museum, where an elderly curator named Mrs. Bates explains to her that the house belonged to artist David Reynolds in the year 1899. She explains how David claimed to have seen the ghost of his dead wife several times and called out to her, but she disappeared each time. David died under mysterious circumstances on the night of the turn of the century. Legend has it that he was murdered during a duel, or that the woman he loved killed him, but no-one knows for certain. Also at the museum is a painting that Mrs. Bates says is a portrait of David's wife Pamela. Mrs. Bates remarks on the woman's striking resemblance to Jennie.

Intrigued, Jennie keeps going back and forth between the two worlds by wearing the antique dress. When David first sees her again, he mistakes her for Pamela but quickly learns that it isn't her when Jennie introduces herself. Jennie realizes that what David mistook for his wife's ghostly appearances were really Jennie appearing in and out of time. When Jennie confides in her husband Michael, he doesn't believe she is really time-traveling and thinks that she is going crazy. He urges her to go see a psychiatrist, Dr. Erica Lauren.

Mrs. Bates takes Jennie to see "Aunt Betty", an extremely old woman who was alive at the time of David's murder. However, she is unable to shed any light on the situation.

Jennie and David fall in love in 1899, but David's sister-in-law, Elizabeth Harrington, is also in love with him. However, her father disapproves of David and blames him for Pamela's accidental death. During their time together, David reveals to Jennie that he is working on a portrait, which turns out to be the same one that Jennie saw in the museum in the present and is in fact a portrait of Jennie, not Pamela.

Pamela's father later challenges David to a duel on the night of the turn of the century, the night that David died.

In the present, Jennie tries to find out how she can prevent David's death. Michael gives her a locket which she promises to always wear. Mrs. Bates later calls Jennie and says that "Aunt Betty" wants to make a death bed confession. "Aunt Betty" reveals that she is really Elizabeth and that she was responsible for David's murder. During the duel, Elizabeth was hiding with a gun which she used to shoot David.

Jennie rushes to save David in the past but she is confronted by Michael, who suspects her of inventing the entire delusion to cover up for an ordinary affair with someone in their time. He tries to prevent her from going up to the attic, in the process ripping the shoulder of Jennie's dress, and bringing it back to the state in which it was originally found. He chases her up the stairs, but she manages to block his path by locking the door. Jennie escapes into the past world to stop the duel and try to save David's life. Jennie spots Elizabeth, but appears to be shot when she tries to prevent the murder.

In the present, Michael manages to break into the attic, but he is too late. He discovers the lifeless body of Jennie lying on the bed. He grieves her death and she is later buried.

Later, as Michael is preparing to move, the movers stumble onto a number of paintings in the attic. He goes through them, only to see that they are of his wife, wearing the locket he gave her and showing the life she led in the past with David. They include a portrait of Jennie on a ship, her holding a child in a room in Paris, and Jennie in old age. Michael remembers everything Jennie said, and begins to cry, finally realizing that his wife was right the entire time.

####The Unseen####
An old homeless woman is murdered after seeing a light through the basement window of abandoned 11 Crescent Drive. Young Barney Fielding witnesses this from his window next door at number 10.

Elizabeth Howard (Gail Russell), arrives at the house to be governess to Barney and his sister, Ellen, but is met with aggression from the boy who is unusually attached to their former governess, Maxine, and tells her: "You're my enemy! I hate you!"  Elizabeth's room overlooks the garden of the eerie house next door, and she finds a watch that belonged to the murdered old woman in her dressing table.

Over the next few weeks, Marian Tygarth (Isobel Elsom), a widow who owns shuttered-up 11 Crescent Drive, returns to put the house up for sale. Elizabeth suspects someone is gaining access to the cellars and confides in David Fielding (Joel McCrea), the children's father, but he dismisses her concerns. She turns to Dr. Evans (Herbert Marshall), a neighbor and friend of the family, who advises her not to call the police as David shouldn't like it (unknown to Ellen, David was once suspected of murdering his wife).  Ellen tells Elizabeth that Barney is the one who lets the lurking man into the house at night, on Maxine's orders. The next day, the employment agency tells Elizabeth they cannot send anyone over that day.  However, a new maid arrives at the house, and Elizabeth eventually realizes she is Maxine (Phyllis Brooks); David tries to throw Maxine out of the house. Shortly after, she is found murdered outside the empty house.  David is nowhere to be found, which causes the police to consider him the prime suspect. After the police leave, Mrs. Tygarth comes over to keep Elizabeth company after the children have gone to bed.

Mrs. Tygarth tells Ellen that the man who murdered her husband is next door as they speak. She says that she is being forced to help the mysterious man, who has been visiting there every night, to clean the bloody crime scene from 12 years before.  She knows she is his next victim and tells Elizabeth she is going to call the police, but actually goes next door to kill the still unknown man; he kills her instead. Elizabeth still suspects the perpetrator might be David, and calls on Dr. Evans for help.  David arrives and accuses Dr. Evans, who is revealed to be the killer, which he became when he once thought that he could have Mrs. Tygarth for himself.

####Voyage of the Rock Aliens####
A guitar-shaped spaceship and Robot 1359 (voiced by Peter Cullen), search the universe for the source of rock and roll music. After discounting the planets Teldar and Malox, they come across Acirema.  After listening to a dance/musical performance of “When the Rain Begins to Fall”, featuring Pia Zadora and Jermaine Jackson portraying members of rival gangs who fall in love, à la  Romeo and Juliet, 1359 discounts this one too.

The last planet left to visit is Earth.  1359 wakes the crew to visit the planet. A rocket telephone booth lands in the town of Speelburgh and ABCD (pronounced "Absid") (Tom Nolan) with his group of aliens exit. The humanoid aliens force robot 1359 to take the form of a fire hydrant. Only the Sheriff (Ruth Gordon) witnesses their landing, and she becomes obsessed with alien invaders.

Dee Dee (Pia Zadora) is a singer in high school who is in love with Frankie (Craig Sheffer), the leader of Speelburgh's local high school rock band, The Pack (Jimmy and the Mustangs). She sings of her heart's desire to best friend Diane (Alison La Placa). Dee Dee's dream is to sing with the band; Frankie loves her but does not want her to sing with them. Meanwhile, a giant creature with tentacles lives in nearby Lake Eerie, a product of environmental pollution,  and it periodically extends its arms throughout the town.

As the aliens, played by the rock band RHEMA, search the area, they encounter Dee Dee, Frankie and The Pack at the local maltshop. Absid literally loses his head over Dee Dee (i.e. he explodes and needs to be put back together by his crew) and decides to win her heart. Meanwhile, his cohorts search for specimens such as flowers, leaves and cow chips. STUVWXYZ (pronounced "Stovitz") (Patrick Byrnes) stumbles across the path of two crazed mass murderers, Chainsaw (Michael Berryman) and The Breather (Wallace Merck), who recently escaped from The Speelburgh Asylum for the Criminally Insane.

Feeling dejected by Frankie's refusal to let her sing, Dee Dee succumbs to the charms of Absid, who asks her to be the singer of his band at the Heidi High Cotillion Dance and Battle of the Bands. Frankie and The Pack arrive at the school to keep the aliens out... but they cannot stop them because of the aliens' powers: they teleport into the bathroom through the toilets. Dee Dee finally gets her chance to sing at a battle of the bands between the aliens and The Pack, with the very jealous Frankie furious that Dee Dee has switched sides.

Absid and Dee Dee sneak off to the lake. While the tentacled creature searches the banks, Absid tries to convince Dee Dee to fly back to his planet. Hesitating, she agrees to visit the ship, but discovers once there that she will have to give up all human emotion to live on the alien's planet.

Meanwhile, Diane encounters Chainsaw at the high school. The crazed killer intends to make her his next victim, but his rusty chainsaw breaks down. Love blooms as Diane helps Chainsaw fix his chainsaw.

Bolting back to her true love, Frankie, Dee Dee finds him cornered in a school hallway by the Breather. Frankie manages to fend off his rival, only to be attacked by the monster from the lake, which has gotten loose and surrounded the school with its tentacles. With his chainsaw now repaired, Chainsaw rescues everyone.

In the end, the aliens board their ship and Absid decides to leave the humans "a little alien persuasion". He fiddles with the buttons in the booth and clears away all of the town's pollution. He also turns the brutal Pack into a group of boy scouts. The creature leaves town, the skies clear, flowers bloom and Frankie and Dee Dee sing and dance into a smogless sunset.

####Were the World Mine####
Timothy (Tanner Cohen) is an openly gay student at a private boys' school. Although now in his senior year, he is still persecuted by the aggressive rugby team, on whose captain, Jonathon (Nathaniel David Becker), he has a crush. Timothy lives with his mother, Donna (Judy McLane), who is struggling with her son's sexuality and with getting a job, and his father who is not a part of his life.

Timothy is cast as Puck in the senior production of "A Midsummer Night's Dream". While reviewing his lines, he discovers the recipe for creating the flower love-in-idleness. Timothy uses the flower to have the homophobic town take a "walk in his shoes". The entire town is thrown into chaos as previously heterosexual community members fall in love with their same-sex friends, bosses, and co-workers: whomever they first saw after being sprayed by the flower. The school drama teacher, Ms. Tebbit (Wendy Robie), guides Timothy towards the question of whether his actions have caused more harm than good.

####What Dreams May Come####
While vacationing in Switzerland, pediatrician Chris Nielsen meets artist Annie Collins. They marry and have two children, Ian and Marie. Their idyllic life ends when the children die in a car crash. Four years later, Chris is also killed in a car crash. Unaware that he is dead, and confused that no one will interact with him, Chris lingers on Earth.

He sees Annie's attempts to cope with his loss and attempts to communicate with her, despite advice from a presence that this will only cause her more pain. When his attempts indeed cause more sorrow, he decides to move on. Chris awakens in a Heaven that he has created with his imagination; his surroundings are a mountainous landscape that resembles a painting created by his wife, and is similar to a place where the two desired to spend their old age.

Chris is accompanied in Heaven by Albert Lewis, his friend and mentor from his medical residency, and Leona, a stewardess whom Chris once admired in the presence of his daughter; he later comes to recognize Leona as his daughter Marie. Meanwhile, Annie is wracked with guilt for the deaths of Chris and their children, and commits suicide. Chris, who is initially relieved that her suffering is over, grows angry when he learns that those who die by suicide go to Hell; this is not the result of a judgment made against them, but rather their own tendency to create nightmare afterlife worlds based on their pain.

Chris is adamant that he will rescue Annie from Hell, despite Albert's insistence that no one has ever succeeded in doing so with someone who died by suicide. Aided by a "tracker", Chris and Albert descend into Hell. On the journey there, Chris realizes that Albert is actually Ian and parts ways with him before his search for Annie.

Chris and the tracker arrive at a dark and twisted version of Chris and Annie's house. The tracker then reveals himself as the real Albert and warns Chris that if he stays with Annie for more than a few minutes he may be permanently trapped in Hell, advising that all Chris can reasonably expect is an opportunity for a final farewell to Annie. Chris enters their now-horrific looking home to find Annie suffering from amnesia, unable to remember her suicide, and visibly tortured by her decrepit surroundings. Unable to stir her memories, the tracker sees Chris give up his quest to save Annie from Hell.

But instead of returning to Heaven, Chris chooses to join Annie forever in Hell. As he declares to Annie his intent to stay, his words parallel something he had said to her as he left her in an institution following the children's deaths, and she regains her memories while Chris is making her nightmare his. Annie, wanting to save Chris, ascends to Heaven, taking Chris with her. Chris and Annie are reunited with their children in Heaven, and all appearances are restored. Chris proposes reincarnation, so he and Annie can experience life together again. The film ends with Chris and Annie meeting again as young children in a situation that parallels their first meeting.

####What Women Want####
Nick Marshall, a Chicago advertising executive, was raised by his Las Vegas showgirl mother. Nick is a chauvinist skilled at selling products to men and seducing women. He expects to get a promotion at the advertising firm Sloane Curtis, but his manager Dan instead announces that he is hiring Darcy Maguire to broaden the firm's appeal to women. Meanwhile, Nick's estranged 15-year-old daughter Alex, is staying with him while his former wife Gigi is on her honeymoon with her new husband Ted. Nick embarrasses Alex, who resents his over-protectiveness when he meets her boyfriend Cameron, who is 18 years old.

Darcy tasks the staff, including Nick, to develop advertising ideas for a series of feminine products she distributes at the staff meeting. While testing a few items at home, Nick falls into his bathtub while holding an electric hairdryer, shocking himself, and is knocked unconscious. The next morning, Nick awakens to discover he has a new gift: he can hear women's thoughts. He has an epiphany, realizing that most women, especially at work, dislike him and consider him sleazy. He makes an impromptu visit to his former therapist, Dr. Perkins (who also disliked him), and she encourages him to use his newfound ability to his advantage.

Nick telepathically eavesdrops on Darcy and purloins her ideas to use as his own, but gradually becomes attracted to her. Alex resents Nick's years of neglect, but they start to bond while he takes her shopping for a prom dress. After Nick telepathically finds out that Alex intends to sleep with Cameron the night of the prom, Nick attempts to give her some advice. He tells her Cameron is not interested in her for who she is, just for what he can do with her in bed. Alex, thinking Nick is being over-protective and trying to sabotage her prom, rejects his advice.

Nick and Darcy spend more time together, becoming romantic. However, he steals Darcy's idea for a new Nike ad campaign aimed at women, though he later regrets his actions, especially as it leads to Dan firing Darcy. Nick persuades Dan to rehire Darcy, saying the ad was her idea and is eventually successful.

Over time, Nick succeeds in repairing his relationships with female acquaintances, especially those at work. Nick loses his gift during a severe thunder and lightning storm while on his way to see the company secretary, Erin, who has been contemplating suicide. He offers her a position for which he had previously turned her down; she accepts. When Cameron dumps Alex at the prom for refusing to have sex, Nick finds and consoles her, cementing their newly repaired relationship. Nick visits Darcy and explains everything. She fires him, but then forgives him, and they share a kiss.

####Winter's Tale####
In 1895, a young immigrant couple is refused entry into Manhattan because they have consumption (Tuberculosis). When their infant son is not allowed entry to the country without them, the family is forced to return to their ship named City of Justice. The parents break the display case containing a model of the ship and place their baby inside it on the water, then watch him float to the New York City shoreline. In 1916, the baby boy has grown up to become Peter Lake (Colin Farrell), a thief raised by a supernatural demon posing as the gangster Pearly Soames (Russell Crowe). Peter is marked for death when he decides to leave Pearly's gang. In a confrontation, he is rescued by a mysterious (winged at times) white horse, his guardian angel.

Although Peter hopes to move to Florida and come back in the summer, the horse encourages him to steal from one last mansion. The mansion is the home where Beverly Penn (Jessica Brown Findlay) lives, a young woman dying of consumption, whose fever is so high she sleeps outside in a tent in the winter cold. While her publisher father Isaac (William Hurt) and younger sister Willa are not home, Beverly discovers Peter preparing to rob the house. When Peter assures her that he no longer wishes to commit robbery, Beverly offers to make him a cup of tea. They tell each other their stories and fall in love. Pearly orders his men to Beverly's home, believing that saving her is Peter's "miracle" and spiritual destiny and that he can destroy Peter by preventing it. Peter rescues Beverly from being knifed by Pearly, and they escape to the Lake of the Coheeries, where Pearly, who is supernaturally limited to the five boroughs of New York City, cannot follow. Peter meets Beverly's family at their summer home and wins their respect.

While on a walk, Beverly explains to Peter that everyone is born with a miracle inside and they are ultimately destined to become stars when they die. Pearly asks Lucifer (Will Smith), for access to the lake home, but his request is denied. Instead, Pearly, who refers to himself as a Knight among Lucifer's angels, calls in a debt owed to him by another of Lucifer's angels. At a ball, the angel disguised as a waiter poisons Beverly's drink. When Peter and Beverly return home from the ball, Peter watches the shadows she casts upon the sides of her lighted tent, joins her, and the two make love. Her pulse races faster than ever due to the poison in her heart, and she dies. After the funeral, when Peter and his mysterious white horse return to the city, Pearly and his men surround them on the Brooklyn Bridge. To save its life, Peter orders his mysterious winged horse to fly away, and Pearly gives Peter five vicious head-butts, pushing him off the bridge.

Peter miraculously survives but wanders around the city with amnesia for a century, drawing chalk art of a red-headed girl on the pavements. In 2014, the 119 year-old, but physically undiminished Peter, bumps into a young girl named Abby and meets her mother, Virginia Gamely (Jennifer Connelly). He rediscovers the brass name plate of the "City of Justice", the model ship in which his parents placed him. Peter then discovers the Theatre of the Coheeries, founded by Isaac, who has dedicated it to Beverly. He visits the Isaac Penn Reading Room where Virginia works, and she helps him restore his memory using historical photographs archived at the library. While there, he meets Beverly's now elderly sister Willa (Eva Marie Saint), the owner of Virginia's newspaper, who recognizes him.

When Peter visits the Gamelys for dinner, he learns that Abby has cancer. Realizing that Abby, who is wearing a red scarf (like his sketches) and has red hair, is his "miracle" and spiritual destiny, instead of Beverly as he originally believed, Peter convinces Virginia that he can save Abby. Pearly learns that Peter is still alive and with Virginia, and he is surprised to learn from Lucifer that Peter was Beverly's miracle, making him love her so much that he couldn't die. Enraged, Pearly asks to fight Peter as a mortal so he can destroy him forever, and Lucifer grants his request while reminding him that if he loses then he himself will be destroyed forever. Pearly and his men arrive at Virginia's apartment, causing Peter and Virginia to flee to the rooftop with Abby. The mysterious winged horse flies them to the Lake of the Coheeries, but Pearly, now mortal, can pursue Peter beyond the Five Boroughs. After Horse dispatches Pearly's men by crashing the ice so that they all drown, Peter and Pearly engage in a fistfight. Peter is losing until a light shines from the heavens and allows Peter to stab Pearly in the neck with the name plate from the boat, "City of Justice." Pearly turns to snow and Peter is able to save Abby on the princess bed after he kisses her forehead. After visiting Beverly's grave one last time, Peter mounts the horse to be carried away to the stars, while the elderly Willa witnesses his ascension.

####Woman on Top####
All her life, Isabella has suffered from motion sickness. Because of her illness, she couldn't play much with other children. She stayed at home and learned how to cook, becoming a renowned chef as an adult. She fell in love with Toninho and they opened a restaurant together, with Isabella stuck in the kitchen and Toninho out front taking the credit.

The only way for Isabella to control her motion sickness is to control her motion. She must drive rather than ride in a car, take stairs instead of elevators, lead while dancing, and be on top during coitus. Toninho, feeling emasculated and resentful of this, has an affair with a neighbor. Isabella flees Brazil for San Francisco with her Afro-Brazilian transsexual friend Monica, who spent her early years with her in the fishing community of Salvador. Despite old job offers from a number of restaurants, Isabella is unable to find a job until she takes over a cooking class at a local culinary school. Cliff, a neighbor and local television producer, smells her cooking, follows her to class, and signs her to host a live cooking show, "Passion Food". She makes Monica her assistant on the show. Isabella performs a sacrifice to Yemanja, a Brazilian sea goddess, to harden her heart and make her never love Toninho again.

Back in Brazil, Toninho's restaurant is floundering without Isabella. Toninho curses Yemanja, and the fishermen stop catching any fish. He figures out that Isabella has gone to Monica and follows her to San Francisco. He spots her on television and tracks her to the studio. With a group of local street musicians, Toninho sneaks into the studio and onto the set, serenading Isabella on the live broadcast. Cliff hires Toninho and the musicians for the show over Isabella's objections. Isabella pursues a relationship with Cliff but Toninho continues trying to win her back.

Network executives offer to syndicate Isabella's show nationally, but only after demanding a number of changes, including firing Monica. With the restaurant closed, Toninho apologizes to Yemanja, but tells her to "stay out of [his] business" with Isabella. He quits the show and makes another attempt to win back Isabella. Isabella goes after him but has to take an elevator, and her motion sickness slows her enough to allow Toninho to depart. Isabella also quits the show rather than accept the changes demanded by the network.

Isabella, with her love still gone but now wanting it returned, tries to cook another sacrifice to Yemanja but finds her cooking talent is gone. Undaunted, Monica substitutes some boxed macaroni and cheese. Isabella makes the second offering but nearly drowns. She has a vision of Yemanja, who rejects her new offering.

Isabella goes to collect her things from the television studio. Toninho, sent by Monica, shows up and suggests they cook something together. As they cook, the fish return to the village waters and Yemanja returns Isabella's original offering along with her love for Toninho.

The film closes with Toninho and Isabella operating a new restaurant as equal partners and with Cliff and Monica as a couple.

####Wristcutters: A Love Story####
After Zia takes his own life, he finds himself in an afterlife limbo much the same as life, but slightly worse. The color is dim, there are no stars, and no one can smile. This strange realm is populated by people who have died by suicide, such as Eugene, a Russian musician who lives with his mother, father, and brother – all suicide victims. Together they waste most of their afterlives in bars, until Zia learns from a friend, Brian, that his ex-girlfriend, Desiree, took her own life shortly after Zia's death. He and Eugene take to the road in Eugene's rundown car to find her. Early on, it is revealed that Eugene's car has two idiosyncrasies, a black hole underneath the passenger seat where items that are dropped disappear forever, and broken headlights that cannot be fixed by even the most adept mechanics. On their trip, they pick up a hitchhiker, Mikal, who insists she has arrived by mistake, and is seeking the "people in charge" (a.k.a. the PIC) in order to be sent back.

After a few adventures across the countryside, as the trio journey along a desolate highway, Mikal pushes a button, miraculously activating the broken headlights on Eugene's car. Shortly thereafter, they come upon a man lying in the middle of the dark highway, forcing them to veer off the road in order to avoid hitting him and wrecking the car in the process.

They discover the man, Kneller, an eccentric commune leader, had fallen asleep while looking for his dog. Kneller invites them back to his camp, where they quickly discover that minor "miracles" occur, as long as the campers remain apathetic about the result. The group stays with the camp longer than intended, and Zia begins to obsess over the miracles and his inability to perform them. When contrasting this to Mikal's obsession with the people in charge, she reveals that her death was an accidental overdose. Eugene meets a young woman, Nanuk, whom he romances. Just as Mikal and Zia discuss their plans to leave Kneller's camp, another camper, Yan, emerges from the woods with news that Kneller's dog has been abducted by a cult leader called "Messiah King". Kneller, Zia, Mikal, and Yan set off in search of King and Kneller's dog.

The group soon find themselves lost and decide to make camp for the night. Unable to sleep, Mikal and Zia discover a nearby ocean shore, where they kiss and spend the night together. In the morning, Kneller discovers them lying among a seashore of used condoms and hypodermic needles. The group eventually reaches King's camp, where they discover that King is readying himself for a "real" miracle – to separate his soul from his body. As Kneller confronts King, Zia discovers that Desiree is a devout cult follower, having taken her own life for the purpose of following King into the afterlife.

As King is about to perform public, ritual suicide, Kneller reveals himself to be an undercover agent for the people in charge. King and Desiree are taken away, while Mikal leaves with them, promising Zia that she'll return. As Zia waits, Eugene and Nanuk arrive, explaining that Mikal has been returned to life and Kneller's camp has been shut down. They depart together on a train, giving Eugene's car to Zia. After finally performing a miracle – creating a star in the sky with a lit match next to one that Mikal had created earlier – Zia decides to take the car and wander. While he is turning over the cassette tape to place in the stereo it accidentally falls into the passenger side feet area. He reaches for it and enters the black hole under the car seat.

In a large warehouse filled with halls of boxes, Kneller picks up Zia's file from a box, places it into his inside breast pocket, and comments on how fortunate it is to know people in high places. Zia wakes up in a hospital bed. He turns his head, seeing his parents outside talking to doctors. When he looks at the person in the bed next to his, he sees Mikal. Both look at each other and smile.

####Adventures of Don Juan####
Late in the reign of Elizabeth I of England, Spanish noble Don Juan de Maraña is repatriated from London to Madrid, following a diplomatic scandal caused by his dalliance with the British fiancée of a Spanish nobleman. The Spanish ambassador in London, Count de Polan, an old family friend, sends a letter of recommendation to Queen Margaret of Spain.

He requests that she provide an opportunity at the Spanish court for the rehabilitation of Don Juan's reputation from the swirling gossip and scandal that have followed him around Europe in the wake of his many illicit love affairs. Accepting her old friend's suggestion, Queen Margaret thus appoints Don Juan as a fencing instructor to the Royal Spanish Academy, where he is a great success. During his time at court, he secretly falls in love with the Queen but remains a staunchly loyal subject to her and her irresponsible and weak husband, King Philip III.

Don Juan discovers a treacherous plan by the Machiavellian Duke de Lorca, who is holding the loyal Count de Polan as a secret prisoner. The Duke is plotting to depose the monarchs, usurp their power over Spain, and declare war on England. With the support of his friends at court, Don Juan heroically defends the Queen and the King against de Lorca and his henchmen, finally defeating his plan in a duel to death, saving Spain.

The queen professes her love for Don Juan, now seeing his many virtues. Despite loving her deeply, more than any other woman in his life, he says that they could never be happy or survive such scandal. Both her subjects and Spain would fare poorly under the sole rule of the king. They both have a higher duty that must be served. Since the queen is the one woman he truly loves and can never rightfully have, he asks that she allow him to leave court and to continue his life elsewhere. She painfully grants him his wish, and he leaves the palace forever to continue his journeys in Spain.

####Annie Oakley####
In late 1800s, Annie Oakley, a young woman from the Ohio backwoods, delivers six dozen quail that she has shot to the owner of the general store. He sends them to the MacIvor Hotel in Cincinnati, where the mayor is holding a large banquet in honor of Toby Walker, the "greatest shot in the whole world." Toby is particular about what he eats, and hotel owner James MacIvor bought Annie's quail because she shoots the quail cleanly through the head, leaving no buckshot elsewhere.

At the banquet, Jeff Hogarth signs Toby to a contract, making him part of the "Buffalo Bill's Wild West" show. James challenges Toby to a shooting contest to take place the next morning. James arranges for "Andy" Oakley to compete against Walker, only to be shocked when Annie appears. The match ends in a draw, so they proceed to sudden death. The two sharpshooters continue hitting their targets. Following a comment from her mother, Annie deliberately misses her next shot. Walker is a gracious, though unsuspecting winner; Hogarth knows exactly what happened.


When the Oakleys return home, Annie promises to reimburse all those who had bet on her. Jeff follows and tells Annie that he never bet the money that she had given him. He also invites her to join the "Wild West" show. Annie, having developed a crush on Toby, accepts. Jeff introduces her to Buffalo Bill and the other members of the show.

When Toby overhears Buffalo Bill telling Jeff that he might have to fire Annie because she lacks showmanship, he teaches her some shooting tricks.

At the first show, Sitting Bull is in the audience. Ned Buntline, Buffalo Bill's publicist, tries to enlist Sitting Bull for the show, but Sitting Bull is bored with the acts until he sees Annie shoot five targets thrown in the air. He is impressed and changes his mind to join the show.

A romance blossoms between Annie and Toby despite Jeff's attempts to win her affections. They also become good friends with Sitting Bull.

One day, a man with a grudge tries to shoot Sitting Bull. Toby grabs the man's gun just as it fires, saving Sitting Bull's life although his eyes are affected by the closeness of the shot. While Annie's fortunes rise, Toby's decline. He hides his injury but accidentally shoots Annie in the hand and is dismissed from the show. Annie is heartbroken but Jeff and Wild Bill try to keep Toby away from her. However, during a chance meeting, Annie is told by a woman accompanying Toby that she has only brought bad luck to Toby. Although Toby tries to stop the woman, Annie feels that what she says is true and unhappily retreats. After a triumphant tour of Europe, the show plays in New York City, where Sitting Bull spots Toby and reunites him with Annie.

####Désirée####
In 1794, in Marseille, Désirée Clary makes the acquaintance of a Corsican, Joseph Bonaparte, and invites him and his brother, Captain Napoleon Bonaparte, to call upon the family the following day. The next day, Julie, Désirée's sister, and Joseph are immediately attracted to each other, and Napoleon is taken with Désirée.  He admits to her that the poor Bonaparte brothers need the rich dowries of the Clary sisters.  Later, Désirée learns that Napoleon has been arrested and taken to Paris.

Napoleon eventually returns to Marseille, tells Désirée that he has been cleared of all charges, but has been ordered to track down Bourbon royalists in Paris.  Désirée begs Napoleon to leave the Army and join her brother in business, but he scoffs at the idea and instead proposes marriage.  Désirée accepts and lends Napoleon the money to return to Paris.

Napoleon tells her that he will always love her and will return soon for their wedding, but, as the months pass, Désirée starts doubting him and goes to the city where she meets General Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte. She learns that Napoleon is engaged to the wealthy Joséphine de Beauharnais. Désirée contemplates suicide, but Bernadotte, who has fallen in love with her, stops her.

Later, in 1797, Napoleon, now France's leading general, has succeeded in conquering Italy, and Désirée lives in Rome with Julie and Joseph.  She soon tires of Rome, however, and decides to return to Paris, where she meets Napoleon, now married to Josephine, who announces that he will be leaving for a new campaign in Egypt.  Bernadotte is thrilled to see Désirée again and proposes marriage to her.

By July 4, 1799, Désirée and Bernadotte have happily settled into married life and have a son, Oscar (Nicholas Koster).  On November 9, 1799, Napoleon is proclaimed First Consul of the French Republic and asks Bernadotte to join his council of state, and Bernadotte agrees.

Several years later, Napoleon is proclaimed emperor, and at his coronation, he takes the crown from the hands of Pope Pius VII and crowns himself.

Five years later, desperate for an heir, Napoleon divorces Josephine, and Désirée comforts her former rival, before Napoleon's upcoming marriage to the 18-year-old Marie Louise of Austria. Napoleon involves France in more wars, and Bernadotte is approached by representatives of King Charles XIII of Sweden, who wishes to adopt him and make him the heir to the throne.  Désirée, stunned by the news that she will one day be a queen, nevertheless supports her husband, and eventually Napoleon allows both of them to leave Paris.

In Stockholm, Désirée does not fit in with the royal family and asks to go home.  Eight months later, she attends a ball in Paris at which Napoleon shows off his new son.  Napoleon makes veiled threats about Bernadotte's alliance with Russia and announces to the crowd that she will be held hostage to ensure Sweden's support while his army invades Russia and captures Moscow.

Napoleon's army is defeated, and he visits Désirée, asking her to write a letter to Bernadotte, requesting his help.  Désirée realizes that Napoleon still loves her and came more for her than to seek her husband's help.  Soon after, during the War of the Sixth Coalition, Bernadotte leads one of the armies that overwhelms Napoleon, and the triumphant general reunites with Désirée before returning to Sweden.

Napoleon's exile to Elba is short-lived, however, and after the Battle of Waterloo, Napoleon retreats with his personal army to the Château de Malmaison.  Representatives of the allied armies ask Désirée to speak with Napoleon, hoping that she can persuade him to surrender.  Napoleon agrees to speak with Désirée alone, and muses on what his destiny would have been if he had married her.  Napoleon proclaims that he has given his life to protect France, but Désirée gently tells him that he must do as France asks and go into exile on St. Helena.  Commenting on how strange it is that the two most outstanding men of their time had fallen in love with her, Napoleon gives Désirée his sword in surrender and assures her that her dowry was not the only reason that he proposed to her many years ago in Marseille.

####Fancy Pants####
A British actor attempts to impress two visiting American women, Efflie Floud and her tomboyish daughter, Agatha, by having the cast of his drawing-room comedy pose as his aristocratic family. Effie persuades the 'butler', Humphrey, really a struggling American actor named Arthur Tyler, to accompany them to the United States and help to refine both her husband and daughter. She sends a telegram home, referring to the person she believes is Humphrey as a "gentleman's gentleman", which the rural western townfolk misunderstand as meaning he is an aristocrat and presumably the future husband of Agatha. Arthur must now pretend to the family that he is this British butler while pretending to the rest of the town, and the visiting President Theodore Roosevelt that he is a politically savvy Englishman.

The deception is eventually uncovered, and the actor and the family's daughter gradually fall in love.

####The Farmer Takes a Wife####
During the 19th century, where Molly Larkins (Betty Grable), the girlfriend of rough-and-tumble canal-boat captain Jotham Klore (John Carroll) she hires mild-mannered farmer Daniel Harrow (Dale Robertson) to work on the boat. Molly and Dan fall in love and marry.

####Florian####
A young groom, Anton, has grown up in Austria a friend of the duchess, Diana, despite their differences in social class. Anton trains a gifted stallion, Florian, for her father, the emperor. Archduke Oliver is the intended husband for the emperor's daughter, but he is killed in battle.

When war ravages the country, Anton is able to assist Diana in crossing the Switzerland border to safety. But he is arrested on returning home. The horse, Florian, is sold to Max Borelli, a carnival worker from New York City who takes him there, then treats him abusively and eventually sells the horse for a fraction of its worth.

Anton is freed and, accompanied by Dr. Hofer, his veterinarian, travels to New York to begin a new life. While he is there, Anton manages to find Florian, return him to good health and make him the splendid horse he used to be. Diana becomes aware of their presence and all are happily reunited.

####For the Cause of the South####
According to articles and reviews in 1912 trade publications, the film began with scenes set in the contemporary South, over 50 years after the start of the American Civil War. Helen Randall, an elderly well-to-do Southern spinster, is described sitting at her home and conversing with her niece Edith, a young woman who is engaged and soon to be married. Curious about her aunt's past, Edith asks her why she never married. Helen is visibly disheartened by the question but shows her niece a photograph of a young soldier, a keepsake she displays on the fireplace mantle in her living room. The scene then transitioned back in time to just before the war, when Helen is a teenager and is attending a women's seminary located near West Point, New York. While a student there she meets and falls in love with Charles Dalton, a cadet at the United States Military Academy. The couple's plans to marry are soon interrupted by the outbreak of war between the North and South. Helen, obeying her father, returns home while Charles remains in New York, where he is commissioned as a captain of a cavalry unit in the Union army. Meanwhile, Helen's father joins the opposing Confederate States Army to serve as a colonel.

As the war intensifies and drags on, Helen loses touch with Charles. Her father, who is now away from their home serving at the front, is ordered by General Robert E. Lee to deliver an urgent, secret message to General "Stonewall" Jackson, information that may prevent the fall of Richmond, Virginia, the Confederacy's capital, to Union forces. While skirting "Yankee" lines, Colonel Randall is seen by Union soldiers, who chase him. The desperate colonel's home happens to be nearby, so Randall rushes there with the enemy in hot pursuit. Helen and her older brother Harry are at the stately residence and are startled when their father appears. Frantic to protect him, she, unlike her cowardly brother, helps to defend him and to safeguard the message he is carrying when a unit of Union cavalry arrives. Helen during the "bloody fight" that ensues is shocked to see that her beloved Charles is leading the unit.

####The Four Feathers####
Harry Faversham, a young British officer completing his training, celebrates his engagement to Ethne Eustace, in a ball with his fellow officers and father. When the Colonel announces that the regiment is being dispatched to Egyptian-ruled Sudan to rescue the British General Charles "Chinese" Gordon, young Faversham has serious reservations about going to war, and resigns his commission. Harry's father disowns him. Perceiving his resignation as cowardice, three of his friends and his fiancée each give him a white feather, the symbol of cowardice. Ethne breaks off their engagement.

Harry learns that his best friend Jack and his former regiment have come under attack by rebels. Undertaking the perilous journey into the Sudan alone, he strikes up an alliance with Abou Fatma, a mercenary warrior. Harry disguises himself as an Arab. Harry and Abou Fatma follow a group of army workers he believes to be spies of self-proclaimed Mahdi, Muhammad Ahmad, and reach the garrison of Abu-Klea, which they realise has been overrun. Harry begs Abou Fatma to warn his friends that their destination is under siege and an attack is likely.

The regiment stops its march to bury a group of British killed by the Mahdi. Abou Fatma is captured by Egyptian soldiers; believing he is an enemy scout, they bring him before the British officers. He tells the British that he has been sent by a British officer to warn them of the Mahdi's attack. He says that Muslims always bury their dead and that of the enemy, but that these bodies have been left to keep the British occupied. Faversham's comrades are worried, but ultimately they disregard Abou Fatma's warnings and he is flogged as a suspected spy.

The British and Egyptian troops are not prepared for battle. The Mahdi rebels attack with spearmen, riflemen and cavalry, while the British forces form a defensive square. Firing volley after volley, the British repel the initial Mahdi assault just as they spot British cavalry reinforcements in their distinctive red uniforms. A force of skirmishers is sent to pursue the retreating Sudanese, but they are ambushed by Mahdi rebels and forced to fight on foot. Soon the British discover that the cavalry who they thought were reinforcements are Sudanese disguised in British uniforms. Among them is Faversham. The British square reorganises and fires a few volleys, in the process killing several skirmishers who have not yet returned to the square, including Edward Castleton, who had earlier given Harry a feather. Jack attempts to rescue Castleton in the process but is blinded when his rifle misfires. The British issue an order for retreat.

Harry finds Jack during the battle and protects him after he was blinded. Harry finds letters from Ethne to Jack, but cares for his friend without identifying himself. Never knowing his rescuer, Jack is transported to England. He asks Ethne to marry him, but she does not answer and discusses it with Harry's father.

Tom, another officer, arrives to tell Jack that Harry had visited him in Sudan. During the encounter, Harry confirms that he had sent Abou to alert the British of the Mahdi attack, and is bitter that his friends ignored the warning. Abou tells Harry that he believes Trench lives on in the notorious Mahdi prison of Omdurman. Upon learning this, Harry says he is determined to rescue him. Abou advises Harry against this venture, which is all but certain to lead to his death. Undeterred, Harry allows himself to be captured and imprisoned at Omdurman.

In the prison, Harry finds Trench. They suffer greatly as they are starved and subjected to hard labor. After a failed escape attempt, they concede the hopelessness of their situation. Later Abou rescues Harry and Trench by giving them a poison to fake their deaths. A suspicious guard follows the removal of the bodies, along with three other guards. Harry and Abou kill the four. Abou returns to the desert, and Harry escorts Trench back to Britain. Harry is acknowledged by his father and Ethne reclaims her feather, as Harry has proven his bravery. She has become engaged to Jack.

Jack learns that Harry was his rescuer when he happens to touch his face; he releases Ethne from their engagement. After a ceremony of remembrance, Harry and Ethne hold hands and are engaged again.

####Girl with a Pearl Earring####
Griet is a shy girl living in the Dutch Republic in 1665. Her father, a Delftware painter, has recently gone blind, rendering him unable to work and leaving his family in a precarious financial situation. Griet is sent to Delft to work as a maid in the household of famed painter Johannes Vermeer and his wife, Catharina. On the way there, she stops momentarily at the compass on the canal bridge leading to the market square.

Griet works diligently and almost wordlessly in the lowest position of a harsh hierarchy. She does her best to adjust, in spite of the unkind treatment from Vermeer's spoiled adolescent daughter, Cornelia. While Griet is on a routine shopping run, a butcher's son, Pieter, is drawn to her. She is slow to return his affections as their relationship develops. As Griet cleans Vermeer's studio, which Catharina never enters, the painter begins to converse with her and encourages her appreciation of painting, light, and color. He gives her lessons in mixing paints and other tasks while keeping these secret from Catharina, to avoid angering her. In contrast, Vermeer's pragmatic mother-in-law, Maria Thins, sees Griet as useful to Vermeer's career.

Vermeer's rich patron, Van Ruijven, visits the household and notices Griet. He asks if Vermeer will give up Griet so she can work in the patron's house, where Van Ruijven ruined the former girl-maid. Vermeer refuses, but agrees to paint a portrait of Griet for Van Ruijven. As he secretly works on the painting, Catharina notices something is amiss. Her growing disdain for the maid becomes apparent, spurred on by Van Ruijven's deliberate suggestions of an improper relationship between Vermeer and Griet. A conflicted Griet deals with her growing fascination with Vermeer and his talent while fending off Van Ruijven, who attempts to rape her in the courtyard. Later, when Catharina is out for the day, her mother hands Griet her daughter's pearl earrings and asks Vermeer to finish the painting.

At the final painting session, Vermeer pierces Griet's left earlobe so she can wear one of the earrings for the portrait. Tensions heighten when she reacts in pain and Vermeer caresses her face. She runs to Pieter for consolation and distraction from her thoughts of Vermeer. The two make love in a barn. Pieter proposes marriage, but Griet unexpectedly leaves. She returns the earrings to Catharina's mother.

Catharina flies into a rage upon discovering Griet wore her earrings and storms into the studio, accusing her mother of complicity. She demands Vermeer show her the commissioned portrait. Offended by the intimate nature of the painting, Catharina dismisses it as "obscene" and tearfully asks why Vermeer wouldn't paint her. When Vermeer responds that she doesn't understand, she tries but fails to destroy the painting. She banishes Griet from the house. Vermeer does not object. Griet returns to her parents' home, stopping to stand once again at the compass on the bridge. Van Ruijven sits looking smugly at the finished painting. Later, Griet receives a visit at her parents' home from Vermeer's cook, Tanneke, who brings a gift: the blue headscarf Griet wore in the painting, wrapped around Catharina's pearl earrings.

In the final shot, the camera zooms out from the earring to reveal the full real-life painting, "Girl with a Pearl Earring.

####Gone with the Wind####
In 1861, on the eve of the American Civil War, Scarlett O'Hara lives at Tara, her family's cotton plantation in Georgia, with her parents, two sisters, and their many black slaves. Scarlett is deeply attracted to Ashley Wilkes and learns he is to be married to his cousin, Melanie Hamilton. At an engagement party the next day at Ashley's home, Twelve Oaks, a nearby plantation, Scarlett makes an advance on Ashley but is rebuffed; however, she catches the attention of another guest, Rhett Butler. The party is disrupted by news of President Lincoln's call for volunteers to fight the South, and the Southern men rush to enlist. Scarlett marries Melanie's younger brother Charles to arouse jealousy in Ashley before he leaves to fight. Following Charles's death while serving in the Confederate States Army, Scarlett's mother sends her to the Hamilton home in Atlanta. She creates a scene by attending a charity bazaar in mourning attire and waltzing with Rhett, now a blockade runner for the Confederacy.

The tide of war turns against the Confederacy after the Battle of Gettysburg. Many of the men of Scarlett's town are killed. Eight months later, as the Union Army besieges the city in the Atlanta campaign, Melanie gives birth with Scarlett's aid, and Rhett helps them flee the city. Rhett chooses to go off to fight, leaving Scarlett to make her own way back to Tara. She finds Tara deserted, except for her father, sisters, and former slaves, Mammy and Pork. Scarlett learns that her mother has just died of typhoid fever, and her father has lost his mind. With Tara pillaged by Union troops and the fields untended, Scarlett vows to ensure her and her family's survival.

With the defeat of the Confederacy, the O'Haras toil in the cotton fields. Ashley returns but finds he is of little help to Tara. When Scarlett begs him to run away with her, he confesses his desire for her and kisses her passionately but says he cannot leave Melanie. Scarlett's father attempts to chase away a carpetbagger from his land but is thrown from his horse and killed.  Unable to pay the Reconstructionist taxes imposed on Tara, Scarlett dupes her younger sister Suellen's fiancé, the middle-aged and wealthy general store owner Frank Kennedy, into marrying her by saying Suellen got tired of waiting and married another suitor. Frank, Ashley, Rhett, and several other accomplices make a night raid on a shanty town after Scarlett is attacked while driving through it alone, resulting in Frank's death. Shortly after Frank's funeral, Rhett proposes to Scarlett, and she accepts.

Rhett and Scarlett have a daughter whom Rhett names Bonnie Blue, but Scarlett still pines for Ashley and, chagrined at the perceived ruin of her figure, refuses to have any more children or share a bed with Rhett. One day at Frank's mill, Ashley's sister, India, sees Scarlett and Ashley embracing. Harboring an intense dislike of Scarlett, India eagerly spreads rumors. Later that evening, Rhett, having heard the rumors, forces Scarlett to attend a birthday party for Ashley. Melanie, however, stands by Scarlett. After returning home, Scarlett finds Rhett downstairs drunk, and they argue about Ashley. Rhett kisses Scarlett against her will, stating his intent to have sex with her that night, and carries the struggling Scarlett to the bedroom.

The next day, Rhett apologizes for his behavior and offers Scarlett a divorce, which she rejects, saying it would be a disgrace. When Rhett returns from an extended trip to London, England, Scarlett informs him that she is pregnant, but an argument ensues, resulting in her falling down a flight of stairs and suffering a miscarriage. While recovering, tragedy strikes again; Bonnie dies while attempting to jump a fence with her pony. Scarlett and Rhett visit Melanie, who has suffered complications from a new pregnancy, on her deathbed. As Scarlett consoles Ashley, Rhett prepares to leave Atlanta. Having realized that it was him, and not Ashley, she truly loved all along, Scarlett pleads with Rhett to stay, but he rebuffs her and walks away into the morning fog. A distraught Scarlett resolves to return home to Tara, vowing to one day win Rhett back.

####The Great Garrick####
In London in 1750, renowned English actor David Garrick announces onstage that he has been invited to Paris to work with the prestigious Comédie-Française. A fop in a box seat declares that the French want Garrick to teach them how to act, and the audience chants, "Teach the French!" The playwright Beaumarchais attributes the remark to Garrick himself. The outraged French actors, led by their president, Picard, take over the inn where he will be staying, and Beaumarchais devises a plot to humiliate Garrick publicly.

On the road to Paris, Garrick meets Jean Cabot, an elderly admirer who once acted with him in "Hamlet" and now works as a Comédie-Française prompter. Cabot—who was tossed out of the Comedie-Française meeting when he protested that Garrick might be innocent—has ridden non-stop for two days to warn the actor, although he does not know the details of the plot. Cabot advises him to travel straight to Paris. Garrick decides to stop at the inn as planned and play along, despite the misgivings of his valet/companion Tubby  and Cabot's concern that there may be violence.

At the inn, Picard tries to rally his cast, but meets with temperament and histrionics on every side, particularly from Basset, whose insistence on playing a madman is quite maddening. They plan to discomfort the Englishman with a near miss from a falling trunk; a seemingly fatal duel with swords; a shootout between a husband and his wife's lover; Basset's mad waiter; and finally, an attack from a violent blacksmith.

Garrick and Tubby arrive at the inn, and the "blacksmith," drunk and lacking a script, mistakes his cue and smashes one of the carriage wheels. Garrick adroitly steps out of the way of the falling luggage and is unperturbed when the duelists cross swords over his dinner.

A complication arises in mid-performance when Germaine Dupont, Countess de la Corbe, appears at the inn. Her coach has broken down. Garrick believes she is one of the actresses, when she is actually fleeing a marriage arranged by her father. He plays along, offering her his room. Over the course of the evening, they fall in love.

After an entertaining evening, Garrick overhears the "blacksmith" reviewing his script and reminding himself to hit the anvil with his hammer and not Garrick's head. He disguises himself as the blacksmith and, pretending to be drunk, tells the aghast troupe that he has struck and killed their intended victim. Tubby rages at them and demands that someone call out the guard. The actors plan to flee. Then Garrick reveals his identity.

He does not betray Cabot. There is no need, as he easily reveals the flaws in their performances. Garrick adds that he admires the Comédie Française and never said anything so stupid as the remark that precipitated this farce.

In her room, he storms at Germaine for her bad acting, including her bad kissing. Infuriated, she responds that she does not have much experience, but does not correct his mistake. Garrick leaves her with the furious advice that she quit the stage.

Downstairs, Picard apologizes on behalf of the company and begs Garrick to join them in Paris. Garrick graciously accepts.

At his premiere in Paris, about to play Don Juan for the first time, Garrick searches the stage for Germaine. He learns from Picard that she is not a member of the company. Realizing that she was telling the truth and that he actually loves her, he declares that he is too distraught to perform ever again, unless he finds her. He goes out to announce this to the audience and sees Germaine in a box, beaming. He is struck dumb. In the prompt box, Jean Cabot holds up a black board that reads: "I met her at the stable. I explained. She knows, understands, forgives, loves." Inspired, Garrick launches into a speech about being in love. Germaine is at first delighted, then becomes worried when it seems he will reveal her name—however Garrick identifies his new love as la belle France. She tosses a flower to him.

####The Great Gatsby####
In December 1929, World War I veteran Nick Carraway, undergoing treatment at a psychiatric hospital, tells his doctor about Jay Gatsby, the most hopeful man he ever met. The doctor suggests Nick tap into his passion and write down his thoughts, and Nick begins cataloging the events to his doctor.

Seven years earlier, in the summer of 1922, Nick moved from the Midwest to New York after abandoning writing. He rents a small groundskeeper's cottage in the North Shore village of West Egg, next to the mansion of Gatsby, a mysterious business magnate who often hosts extravagant parties. Nick has dinner with his beautiful cousin Daisy Buchanan and her domineering husband, Tom, at their mansion in East Egg. Daisy plays matchmaker between Nick and another guest, Jordan Baker, a famous golfer. When Nick returns home, he sees Gatsby standing by the harbor, reaching toward a green light coming from the Buchanans' dock.

Tom brings Nick to the Valley of Ashes, an industrial dumping site between West Egg and the city, and picks up his mistress Myrtle Wilson at a garage owned by her husband George. One day, Nick receives an invitation to one of Gatsby's parties. There, Nick encounters Jordan and they both meet Gatsby. Gatsby takes Nick to Manhattan for lunch, telling Nick on the way that he is an Oxford graduate and war hero from a wealthy Midwestern family. They go to a speakeasy, where Gatsby introduces Nick to his business partner Meyer Wolfsheim.

Jordan tells Nick how Gatsby, a Captain of the U.S. Army, started a relationship with Daisy in 1917 before the U.S. entered World War I, and is still in love with her; he throws parties hoping that Daisy might attend. Gatsby asks Nick to invite Daisy to tea. After an awkward reunion, Gatsby and Daisy begin an affair. Gatsby is dismayed when Daisy wants to run away with him, preferring that she get a proper divorce. He asks Nick and Jordan to accompany him to the Buchanan home, where he and Daisy plan to tell Tom that Daisy is leaving him. During the luncheon, Tom becomes suspicious of Gatsby and Daisy, but Daisy stops Gatsby from revealing anything to Tom and suggests they all go to the Plaza Hotel. Tom drives Nick and Jordan in Gatsby's car while Gatsby drives Daisy in Tom's car. Tom stops for gas at George's garage, where George tells him that he and Myrtle are moving and that he suspects Myrtle is unfaithful.

At the Plaza, Gatsby tells Tom of his affair with Daisy. Tom accuses Gatsby of having never attended Oxford and having made his fortune through bootlegging with mobsters. Eventually, both Gatsby and Daisy leave. After fighting with George over her infidelity, Myrtle runs into the street and is fatally struck by Gatsby's car after mistaking it for Tom's. Upon learning about Myrtle's death, Tom tells George that the car belongs to Gatsby and that he suspects Gatsby was Myrtle's lover, while Nick deduces Daisy was driving when the accident happened. Nick, overhearing Daisy accepting Tom's promise to take care of everything, tries to warn Gatsby about it, but the latter stubbornly believed that Daisy decided to live with Gatsby.

Inside the mansion, Gatsby tells Nick the truth that he was born penniless; his real name is James Gatz, and he had asked Daisy to wait for him until he had made something of himself after the war; instead, she married Tom seven months after the war ended. The next day, Nick goes back to work and Gatsby awaits a call from Daisy while swimming in his pool. The phone rings, and a servant answers it. Believing the caller to be Daisy, Gatsby is shot and killed by a vengeful George, who then commits suicide. Nick, who was the one calling, hears the gunshots and is the only person other than reporters to attend Gatsby's funeral as Daisy, Tom, and their daughter are leaving New York. The media falsely and negatively paints Gatsby as Myrtle's lover and killer, enraging Nick. Disgusted with both the city and its inhabitants, Nick leaves after taking a final walk through Gatsby's deserted mansion and reflecting on Gatsby's ability to hope.

In the sanatorium, Nick finishes typing his memoir and titles it "The Great Gatsby".

####Hairspray####
In 1962, Tracy Turnblad is a 16 year old heavyset high school student living in Baltimore. Along with her best friend Penny Pingleton, Tracy frequently watches "The Corny Collins Show", a local teen dance television show. The dancers from "Corny Collins" attend Tracy and Penny's high school, among them lead dancers Amber von Tussle and her boyfriend Link Larkin. Amber's mother, Velma Von Tussle, manages the station WYZT, ensuring that Amber is prominently featured. Corny Collins and the dancers on the show are white, and Velma only allows African-American dancers on the show once a month on "Negro Day", hosted by local R&B disc jockey Motormouth Maybelle.

One of the dancers on the show takes a leave of absence, and auditions for a replacement are held the next day. Tracy attends, but Velma rejects her for her overweight physique and support of integration. Tracy is given detention for missing class in order to attend the audition, and discovers the "Negro Day" kids practicing in the detention room. Tracy befriends Motormouth Maybelle's son, Seaweed, who teaches her several dance moves. As Tracy leaves detention, she inadvertently meets Link, and dreams of a life with him. At a record hop, Tracy's new moves garner Corny's attention, and he chooses her to join the show.

Tracy quickly becomes one of Corny's most popular performers, affecting Amber's chances of winning the show's annual "Miss Teenage Hairspray" pageant and her relationship with Link, as he grows fonder of Tracy. Mr. Pinky enlists Tracy as the spokesgirl for his Hefty Hideaway boutique. Tracy persuades her agoraphobic mother, Edna, to accompany her to the boutique as her agent.

Tracy introduces Seaweed to Penny, and the two become smitten. Later, Seaweed and his younger sister Little Inez take Tracy, Penny, and Link to a party at Maybelle's store. Edna finds Tracy there and tries taking her home, but Maybelle convinces her to stay, and tells her to take pride in herself. At the party, Maybelle informs everyone that Velma has cancelled "Negro Day", and Tracy suggests that they march for integration. Link is unwilling to jeopardize his career by marching, straining his relationship with Tracy. Edna returns to her husband Wilbur's shop, but Velma gets there first, and tries to seduce him. After accusing Wilbur of infidelity, Edna forbids Tracy to be on the show, which was Velma’s intention. She changes her mind after she and Wilbur reconcile.

The next morning, Tracy sneaks out of the house to join the protest, which is halted by a police roadblock. The protesters engage in a brawl, while Tracy runs to the Pingletons' home, where Penny allows her to hide in a fallout shelter. However, Penny's mother Prudy reports Tracy to the police and ties her daughter to her bed for "harboring a fugitive". Having been bailed out by Wilbur, Seaweed and his friends help Tracy and Penny escape. Link visits Tracy's house to find her, and realizes that he loves her. Seaweed and Penny also acknowledge their love during the escape.

With the pageant underway, Velma assigns police officers to guard the WYZT studio to prevent Tracy from entering. She also rigs the pageant tallies to guarantee that Amber will win. Penny arrives at the pageant with Edna, while Wilbur, Seaweed, and the Negro Day kids help Tracy infiltrate the studio. Link breaks away from Amber to dance with Tracy; later, he pulls Little Inez to the stage to dance in the pageant.

Amber's attempt to re-claim her championship crown fails. Little Inez wins the pageant after a late surge of support, successfully integrating "The Corny Collins Show". Velma tells Amber about her rigging scheme in front of a camera manned by Edna, resulting in her firing. "The Corny Collins Show" set turns into a celebration as Tracy and Link kiss.

####Hello, Dolly!####
In 1890, all of New York City is excited because the well-known widowed matchmaker Dolly Levi is in town. Dolly is currently seeking a wife for grumpy Horace Vandergelder, the well-known "half-a-millionaire", but it soon becomes clear that she intends to marry Horace herself. Meanwhile, Ambrose Kemper, a young artist, wants to marry Horace's niece, Ermengarde. However, Horace opposes this, feeling Ambrose cannot provide financial security. Horace, who is the owner of Vandergelder's Hay and Feed, explains to his two clerks, Cornelius Hackl and Barnaby Tucker, that he is going to get married, though what he really wants is a housekeeper. He plans to travel to New York that very day to march in the 14th Street Parade, and also to propose to milliner Irene Molloy, whom he has met through Dolly Levi. Dolly arrives in Yonkers and sends Horace ahead to the city. Before leaving, he tells Cornelius and Barnaby to mind the store.

Cornelius, weary of his dull existence, decides that he and Barnaby need to get out of Yonkers. Dolly overhears, and decides to set them up with Irene Molloy and her shop assistant, Minnie Fay. She also helps Ambrose and Ermengarde, entering them in a dance contest at the very fancy Harmonia Gardens restaurant, which Dolly and her late husband frequented. The entire company takes the train to New York.

In New York, Irene and Minnie open their hat shop for the afternoon. Irene does not love Horace Vandergelder, but knows that the marriage will provide her with financial security and an escape from her boring job. However, Irene hopes to escape her loveless marriage, and plans to try and find real love before the summer is over. Cornelius and Barnaby arrive at the shop and pretend to be rich- Irene seems to take to Cornelius immediately. Horace and Dolly arrive, and Cornelius and Barnaby hide. Minnie screams when she finds Cornelius hiding in an armoire. Horace is about to open the armoire himself, but Dolly "searches" it and pronounces it empty. After hearing Cornelius sneeze, Horace storms out upon realizing there are men hiding in the shop, although he is unaware that they are his clerks. Dolly arranges for Cornelius and Barnaby, who are still pretending to be rich, to take the ladies out to dinner at Harmonia Gardens to make up for their humiliation. Dolly briefly tries to teach Cornelius and Barnaby to dance, which leads to the whole town dancing in the local park.

The clerks and the ladies go to watch the Fourteenth Street Association Parade together. Alone, Dolly asks her first husband Ephram's permission to marry Horace, requesting a sign. She resolves to move on with life. After meeting an old friend, Gussie Granger, on a float in the parade, Dolly catches up with the annoyed Vandergelder as he is marching in the parade. She tells him the heiress Ernestina Simple would be perfect for him and asks him to meet her at Harmonia Gardens that evening.

Cornelius is determined to get a kiss before the night is over. Since the clerks have no money to hire a carriage, they tell the girls that walking to the restaurant is more stylish. In a quiet flat, Dolly prepares for the evening. At the Harmonia Gardens Restaurant, Rudolph, the head waiter, whips his crew into shape for Dolly Levi's return. Horace arrives to meet his date, who is really Dolly's friend Gussie. As it turns out, she is not rich or elegant as Dolly implied, and she soon leaves after being bored by Horace, just as she and Dolly planned.

Cornelius, Barnaby and their dates arrive and are unaware that Horace is also at the restaurant. Dolly makes her triumphant return to the restaurant and is greeted in style by the staff. She sits in the now-empty seat at Horace's table and proceeds to tell him that no matter what he says, she will not marry him. Fearful of being caught, Cornelius confesses to the ladies that he and Barnaby have no money, and Irene, who knew they were pretending all along, offers to pay for the meal. She then realizes that she left her handbag with all her money in it at home. The four try to sneak out during the polka contest, but Horace recognizes them and also spots Ermengarde and Ambrose. In the ensuing confrontation, Vandergelder fires Cornelius and Barnaby, and they are forced to flee as a riot breaks out. Cornelius professes his love for Irene. Horace declares that he would not marry Dolly if she were the last woman in the world. Dolly angrily bids him farewell; while he's bored and lonely, she will be living the high life.

The next morning, back at the hay and feed store, Cornelius and Irene, Barnaby and Minnie, and Ambrose and Ermengarde each come to collect the money Vandergelder owes them. Chastened, he finally admits that he needs Dolly in his life, but she is unsure about the marriage until Ephram sends her a sign. Cornelius becomes Horace's business partner at the store, and Barnaby fills Cornelius' old position. Horace tells Dolly life would be dull without her, and she promises that she will "never go away again".

####If Beale Street Could Talk####
"Note: The film's structure is non-linear, but this plot summary is written in a linear fashion."

Clementine "Tish" Rivers and Alonzo "Fonny" Hunt have been friends their whole lives. They become romantically involved when they get older. In the 1970s, they struggle to find an apartment, as most New York landlords would not rent to black people. Eventually, they find a place in a warehouse being converted to loft apartments; Levy, the Jewish landlord, rents it to them at a good rate because he enjoys seeing couples who are in love, regardless of race.

That night, Tish is harassed by a man while in a mostly white grocery store. He begins to assault her, so Fonny physically throws him out of the store. A white policeman nearby, Officer Bell, attempts to arrest Fonny for it, but reluctantly lets him go when the Jewish woman who runs the grocery store vouches for them and chastises Bell for his racism.

Fonny is later arrested and accused of raping a woman named Victoria Rogers. Although nearly impossible for him to have gone from the scene of the crime to the apartment where he was arrested in the time between the rape and the arrest, the case against Fonny is considered strong due to Officer Bell's testimony. The claim is he saw Fonny fleeing the scene, and Victoria identified Fonny in a lineup as her rapist. Tish, as well as Fonny's friend Daniel Carty, were with him at the time of the rape, but it is considered an unreliable alibi due to Tish's romantic relationship with Fonny and Daniel's previous conviction for grand theft auto (he had been arrested for marijuana possession but was offered a plea for auto theft, a lesser charge at the time).

Tish visits Fonny in jail as he awaits trial and reveals to him that she is pregnant with their baby. Fonny is excited to be a father, but saddened that the birth might be while he is still behind bars. Later, Tish tells her parents, Sharon and Joseph, and sister, Ernestine, about her pregnancy. Though worried for her, Tish's family is supportive and decide to invite Fonny's family over to share the news.

Frank, Fonny's father, is excited, however, Fonny's highly religious mother declares that as the child was conceived out of wedlock, Tish and her child are damned. As Mrs. Hunt begins to leave with her daughters in disgust after Frank hits her, Sharon reminds her that she has just condemned her own grandchild, leaving her emotionally distraught as she is escorted away.

In a bar, Frank and Joseph discuss how the former is worried about paying for a child and Fonny's legal expenses, but Joseph convinces him that they will be able to provide for their grandchild the same way they provided for their own children.

Sharon travels to Victoria's native Puerto Rico to plead with her to change her testimony. She tries to convince her she mistakenly identified Fonny as her rapist, but Victoria refuses. Questioning whether Victoria could have seen her rapist's face in the dark, Victoria says the police told her to identify Fonny in a line-up, and she did so. When Sharon gently touches her, Victoria begins to scream. An elderly woman overhears the commotion and comes to take Victoria away. Discouraged by the seeming hopelessness of his case and the constant trial delays, Tish gives birth to her son without Fonny, who eventually accepts a plea deal.

Tish and their child, Alonzo Jr., visit Fonny in prison. They share dinner together from the vending machines, while looking forward to Fonny's eventual release.

####In the Palace of the King####
As described in a film magazine review, Don John, brother of Philip II of Spain, is sent to war with the Moors, the king wishing to be rid of him. Don John loves Dolores, daughter of General Mendoza, but her father does not trust him. Returning in triumph, Don John quarrels with Philip, who stabs him with apparent fatal effect. To save the King, Mendoza assumes the guilt of murder. Dolores threatens Philip with exposure and he signs a pardon for Mendoza. Don John reappears and receives Philip's royal consent for his marriage to Dolores.

####Jane Eyre####
multiple image

| align     = left
| direction = vertical
| width     = 220

| image1    = Jane Eyre-PA Garner-2.jpg
| alt1      =
| caption1  =Peggy Ann Garner as young Jane

| image2    = Jane-Eyre-1943-1.jpg
| alt2      =
| caption2  = Orson Welles and Joan Fontaine

| image3    = Jane-Eyre-1943-2.jpg
| alt3      =
| caption3  = Welles, Margaret O'Brien and Fontaine

| image4    = Jane-Eyre-1943-3.jpg
| alt4      =
| caption4  = Welles and Fontaine


Orphaned, unloved, and unwanted ten-year-old Jane Eyre lives with her cruel, selfish, uncaring maternal aunt via marriage, Mrs. Reed of Gateshead Hall, and her spoiled, bullying son. Jane is ecstatic when Mrs. Reed, eager to be rid of her, arranges for Jane to be sent to Lowood Institution, a charity boarding school for young girls, run by the disciplinarian Mr. Brocklehurst.

Based on what Mrs. Reed has told him, Mr. Brocklehurst labels Jane a liar in front of her schoolmates and orders her to stand on a stool for hours on her first day of attendance. She is comforted and befriended by another student, Helen Burns. Later, Jane protests when Brocklehurst orders that Helen's naturally curling hair be cut. Both are punished by being forced to walk circles in a courtyard during a downpour. Dr. Rivers, a sympathetic physician who periodically checks on the students, brings the girls inside, but it is too late for Helen, who dies that night.

Ten years later, in 1840, twenty-year-old Jane turns down Brocklehurst's offer of a teaching position. She advertises for and accepts a job as governess for a young girl named Adèle. When Jane arrives at Thornfield, a gloomy, isolated mansion, she initially thinks her employer is Mrs. Fairfax, who is in fact the housekeeper for the absent master.

Jane goes for a walk one night only to startle a horse into throwing and slightly injuring its rider, Edward Rochester—who she doesn't realize is her employer. When Jane arrives back at Thornfield, she discovers this fact, and Rochester calls her into his library to interview her. His brusque manner contrasts with her quiet, gentle demeanor, and he finally dismisses her with the wish that she will enjoy her stay there.

That night, Jane is awakened by strange laughter. She investigates, and discovers that Rochester's bed curtains are on fire. She rouses the sleeping man and they extinguish the fire without rousing anyone. Rochester bids her wait while he goes to another wing of the house, where mysterious seamstress Grace Poole keeps to herself. When he returns, he tells Jane nothing other than that the matter is under control. The next morning, he leaves Thornfield.

A winter and spring go by before he returns with a large group of guests. Jane is greatly saddened when Mrs. Fairfax discloses that everyone expects Rochester to marry the vivacious and snobbish Blanche Ingram. However, Rochester confides to Jane his conviction that Blanche is attracted only by his wealth.

When a man named Richard Mason of Spanish Town, Jamaica, arrives at Thornfield, Jane sees that Rochester is disturbed. That night, a pained scream awakens everyone. Rochester assures his guests it is just a servant's reaction to a nightmare, but after he sends them back to their rooms, he has Jane secretly tend to a bleeding Mason in the tower while he fetches a doctor. Behind her, a locked wooden door rattles with someone trying to get out, but Rochester orders Jane to ignore everything she sees or hears. Rochester has the doctor take Mason away.

Rochester has a private conversation with Blanche, in which he bluntly asserts that she is a gold digger. Offended, she and the other guests leave. Unaware of this development, Jane broaches the topic of her future employment elsewhere after Rochester gets married, and confesses that she does not want to leave Rochester. In response, Rochester reveals that he loves her and not Blanche, and proposes marriage to her, which she accepts.

During the wedding ceremony, an attorney intervenes and declares that Rochester has a wife by the name of Bertha Antonietta Mason, who is mentally ill and deranged. This is confirmed by Mason, Rochester's brother-in-law. Rochester calls off the marriage ceremony and takes Jane and Mason back to Thornfield to reveal Bertha, who is insane to the point of animalistic behavior, and lives in a tower cell guarded by Grace Poole. Rochester explains to Jane that his and Bertha's marriage was arranged when he was a teenager, and he did not truly know her. He was helpless as she drove herself mad, and has been searching for happiness with a real partner ever since, which caused him to become desperate when he fell for Jane. Though they admit they still love each other, Jane rejects Rochester's offer to stay as his mistress, and she determinedly departs Thornfield to preserve her principles.

With her funds exhausted, Jane returns to Gateshead. She discovers that her aunt has suffered a stroke, caused by worry over the ruinous gambling habits of her son, who it is revealed has committed suicide. Mrs. Reed is happy to see Jane and they reconcile. After Mrs. Reed dies, Jane ponders what to do next, even considering working for Mr. Brocklehurst, when she hears Rochester's anguished voice calling her name during a storm.

Jane returns to Thornfield and finds it in ruins. Mrs. Fairfax informs her that Bertha had escaped confinement, set the place on fire, and fled to the roof. While Fairfax took Adèle to safety, Rochester tried to rescue Bertha, but she jumped to her death. The burning staircase collapsed underneath Rochester, badly wounding him. With no other impediments, Jane reunites with Rochester, who is now blind from the fire. He tells her she should not waste her life with a crippled man like him, but she has made her choice to stay. They reaffirm their love and kiss passionately. Jane narrates that she married Rochester, and when their son was born, her husband's vision was sufficiently restored for him to see their child.

####Jane Eyre####
A tearful Jane Eyre runs away from Thornfield Hall, finding herself alone on the moors. She collapses at the doorstep of Moor House, home of St. John Rivers and his sisters Diana and Mary; they take Jane in and nurse her back to health.

The film flashes between Jane's recovery and her grim childhood. An orphan, she is treated cruelly by her cousin John and aunt Mrs. Reed. Jane is sent to the Lowood School for Girls; under the strict Mr. Brocklehurst, the girls are beaten, but Jane befriends fellow pupil Helen Burns, who dies of consumption.

Eight years later, Jane, now 18, leaves Lowood for a position at Thornfield Hall. Welcomed by the kindly housekeeper Mrs. Fairfax, Jane begins a plain and isolated life as governess to Adèle Varens, the young French ward of Thornfield's owner. One day, Jane sees a rider thrown by his horse and comes to his aid. Returning to Thornfield, she learns the man is Edward Rochester, master of the house. He grudgingly praises her instruction of Adèle, and her own "openess and unpolluted mind;” the two find themselves curiously attracted to one another.

One night, Jane discovers Rochester's room on fire, which they manage to extinguish; he warns her not to speak of the incident, and they share a chaste but passionate moment. The next day, Rochester leaves suddenly to call on Blanche Ingram, who Mrs. Fairfax tells Jane is Rochester's prospective wife; she and her family return with him a few weeks later on a grand visit to Thornfield.

Rochester confronts Jane, who is hurt by Blanche's presence, but is interrupted by an unexpected guest – Richard Mason from Spanish Town, Jamaica, whose arrival disturbs Rochester. That night, the household is awakened by a scream. Rochester reassures the guests, but brings Jane to tend to Mason, who has been badly injured. Jane notices a hidden door in Rochester's room before Mason is taken away by a doctor. Rochester confides in Jane, cryptically, that he is haunted by a past mistake but has fallen for a new woman in his life; Jane believes he means Blanche.

Jane receives word that her cousin John has committed suicide, leading her aunt to suffer a stroke. Jane returns to her dying aunt, who gives her a letter from Jane's paternal uncle, John Eyre, asking that Jane live with him in Madeira as his heir. The letter is three years old, and Mrs. Reed admits to writing to John to the effect that Jane had died at Lowood. Jane forgives her aunt and returns to Thornfield, beginning a correspondence with John.

Faced with Rochester's impending marriage to Blanche, Jane tells Rochester she will leave Thornfield and confesses her true feelings for him. Rochester declares that Jane is his only love and proposes; she accepts. At their wedding, Mason appears with a lawyer and reveals that Rochester is already married to Mason's sister, Bertha. Rochester admits the truth and takes Jane to meet his violently deranged wife, kept in a hidden room at Thornfield. Rochester explains that he was made to marry Bertha for her money, but she rapidly descended into madness and he locked her away rather than subject her to an asylum; she was responsible for the strange happenings in the house. Jane, wounded at his deception, leaves Thornfield.

After her recovery at Moor House, St. John gives Jane a teaching position and a cottage. One night, she imagines a knock at her door to be Rochester, but instead finds St. John with news that her uncle John has died and left her his fortune of £20,000 (Inflation|UK|20000|1847|r=-5|fmt=eq|cursign=£). Jane offers to share her inheritance with St. John and his sisters, and the four live together at Moor House. St. John asks Jane to marry him and go to India as missionaries, but she rejects him.

Jane returns to Thornfield to find the house a blackened ruin. She learns from Mrs. Fairfax that Bertha set fire to the house; Rochester was able to rescue everyone but his wife. Jane visits Rochester, now blind, and the two are reunited.

####Kitty####
In 1783 London, a poor thief, Kitty, is caught picking the pocket of painter Thomas Gainsborough. Amused, he pays her to sit for a portrait. While posing, she attracts the attention of Sir Hugh Marcy, who offers her a job as a scullery maid and (later) his aunt's ward. Kitty later learns he is impoverished, having lost his post in the Foreign Office. All the while, Gainsborough's portrait of Kitty, "The Anonymous Lady", creates a stir, as people try to guess the subject's identity. The Duke of Malmunster, who buys the painting, asks Gainsborough about the model. Sir Hugh interjects that she is his aunt's ward. So in exchange for an introduction to Kitty, the Duke offers to have Hugh reinstated in the Foreign Office. But the relationship goes no further than the promised introduction. Meanwhile, Kitty develops an attraction for Hugh—so much so, that when he is sent to debtors' prison, Kitty charms wealthy industrialist Jonathan Selby into marriage, using her dowry to free Hugh. But he and his aunt once again go broke. So when Kitty breaks into her husband's strongbox to bail them out of trouble, Selby beats her but then dies at the hands of Kitty's loyal maid.

As a result, Kitty inherits a large fortune. She desires happiness with Hugh, but he is determined instead that she marry the Duke of Malmunster and reclaim his career. Kitty gives in, and after the honeymoon, the duke makes it known that Kitty is pregnant (though the father is actually the late Selby). After the birth of the boy, the old duke dies, leaving Kitty extremely wealthy. After a respectable mourning period, Hugh attempts to arrange a third marriage for Kitty, this time to the Prince of Wales. Kitty, however, confesses to Hugh she married twice out of love for him. Unimpressed, Hugh replies that he considers their relationship a business arrangement, nothing more. Meanwhile, Kitty becomes engaged to Hugh's close friend, the Earl of Carstairs. Seeing them together, Hugh realizes he actually "is" in love with Kitty. The Earl, ever the gentleman, chooses not to stand in the way of Hugh's happiness. So in the end, Hugh and Kitty are free to affirm their mutual devotion.

####Lady for a Night####
Social climber Jenny Blake owns the casino steamboat "Memphis Belle", together with the influential Jack Morgan. Most of the customers are from the upper class, but they have little respect for Jenny and her - in their opinion - vulgar occupation. Jack is secretly in love with Jenny. To show her what it really is she aspires to, he arranges for her to be made queen of the Mardi Gras festivities. This angers the upper crust of society, and she is mocked in public. However, she does not give up.

She decides to use one of the old plantation owners, Alan Alderson, to fulfill her dream. Alan is burdened with debt and manages to lose his plantation, "The Shadows", gambling at the casino. Jenny offers to forgive his debts if he marries her. Alan agrees, and Jenny secures a respectable position in society.

Jack is devastated by Jenny's marriage, and does not try to save the "Memphis Belle" when it catches fire. Everyone in Alan's family has a hard time accepting Jenny, except his aunt Katherine, who is suffering from mental illness.

Jack goes on to sabotage the relationship between Jenny and Alan. He is helped by Alan's aunt Julia. Julia starts off with insinuations that Jenny has an improper relation with Jack and goes on to try to ruin a ball Jenny is hosting. Jack saves Jenny and the ball by using his political influence to make the guests attend, even though Julia has tried to keep them away. Jenny is almost killed when Julia goes on to let her ride in a carriage pulled by a blind horse.

Jenny retaliates by ordering Julia to leave the plantation. The infuriated Julia then mixes a poisoned drink meant for Jenny, but Alan beats her to it and dies from drinking it. Jenny is accused of murdering her husband and put on trial. Aunt Katherine is the only person who knows that Julia mixed the drink, but she is forced by her sister to testify against Jenny in court.

Jenny is convicted of murder, but Katherine soon confesses that it was Julia who mixed the drink, and a few years earlier also killed Katherine's fiancé in a fit of jealousy. Jenny is cleared of all charges. She meets Jack and they start working together again. She finally gives up her dream to climb the social ladder and accepts Jack's proposal to marry him.

####The Light Between Oceans####
In December 1918, Tom Sherbourne – a traumatised and withdrawn hero of World War I – is hired as a lightkeeper at Janus Rock, a lighthouse off the coast of Australia. He falls in love with a local girl, Isabel Graysmark, and they marry. Isabel loses two pregnancies over two years and fears she may never become a mother.

Shortly after Isabel's second miscarriage, a rowboat containing a dead man and a newborn baby girl washes ashore near the lighthouse. Tom knows that he is required by law to report the discovery. However, Isabel fears that the baby will almost certainly be sent to an orphanage and persuades Tom to pass the baby off as their own daughter, to which he reluctantly agrees. He buries the man on the island, and the couple names the infant girl Lucy.

As Tom and Isabel are about to have Lucy christened on the mainland, Tom sees a woman, Hannah Roennfeldt, kneeling in front of a grave bearing the names of Franz Johannes Roennfeldt and his baby daughter Grace Ellen, who were lost at sea on the day they found Lucy, 26 April 1923. Tom fears that Lucy may very well be Hannah's missing infant daughter. He writes anonymously to Hannah to tell her that her husband is dead but that her infant daughter is safe, loved and well cared for.

Four years later, Tom, Isabel and young Lucy, enjoying an idyllic life together, attend a ceremony for the anniversary of Tom's lighthouse. They strike up a conversation with Hannah and her sister, Gwendolyn Potts, and learn that Franz was a German, that Hannah's marrying him so soon after the First World War was controversial, and that he had been accosted in the street by a drunken crowd. Franz jumped into a rowboat and fled with his baby daughter.

Tormented by his conscience, Tom sends Hannah a small silver rattle that was found with Lucy on the boat. One of Tom's co-workers recognizes the rattle on a reward poster and reports him to the police. Accused of murdering Franz, Tom takes full responsibility, claiming he bullied Isabel into complying. Isabel is enraged that Tom is willing to give Lucy away and breaks off contact with him after his arrest. The police are unable to obtain an answer from the distraught Isabel as to whether or not Franz was dead when they discovered him.

Lucy is returned to her biological family but initially rejects and hates them, due to having no memory of them whatsoever. She refuses to answer to her given name. Lucy runs away in an effort to return to the Lighthouse and her "real parents", and a search team is sent to rescue her. She is found and returned to Hannah, but the events lead Hannah to realize that Lucy really belongs to Isabel.

Hannah promises to return Lucy to Isabel as soon as Isabel testifies against Tom. Just as Tom is about to be taken by boat to Albany for trial, Isabel reads a letter which Tom had sent her, saying he had not deserved his happiness with Lucy and how carrying the blame will assuage his guilt for surviving the war.

Isabel jumps on the boat and confesses everything. Moved by their gesture and reminded by Franz's words to always forgive others, Hannah offers to speak on their behalf at trial. Lucy has at last begun to bond with her biological mother and maternal grandfather, who agrees to call her "Lucy Grace" as a compromise.

In 1950, 27-year-old Lucy Grace Rutherford, accompanied by her baby son Christopher, tracks Tom down. She has not been in contact with the Sherbournes for over eighteen years, as they had agreed not to contact her for the rest of her girlhood. Isabel has recently died, still tormented with guilt for her actions, and Tom gives Lucy Grace a letter that her adoptive mother had written in case Lucy ever made contact. An emotionally sorrowful Lucy Grace thanks Tom, the only father she ever knew, for rescuing and raising her for the four years of her life on Janus Rock, and she asks if she can visit again. She and Tom embrace before she leaves. Tom sits on his rocking chair, now content with what life had given him.

####Little Women####
The March sisters: responsible Meg, tempestuous Jo, tender Beth, and romantic Amy, are growing up in Concord, MA during and after the American Civil War. Their father is fighting in the war and, with their strong-willed mother, Marmee (pronounced "Mahmee") they struggle with major and minor problems in 19th century New England. The girls revel in performing Jo's romantic plays in their attic theater.

Next door neighbor, wealthy Mr. Laurence's grandson Theodore ("Laurie") moves in, becoming a close friend of the Marches, particularly Jo. Mr. Laurence mentors Beth, whose exquisite piano-playing reminds him of his deceased daughter, and Meg falls in love with Laurie's tutor John Brooke.

When Mr. March is wounded, Jo sells her hair so Marmee can go by train to nurse him back to health. While she is away, Beth continues visiting a struggling immigrant family, providing food and firewood. She contracts scarlet fever from them. Awaiting Marmee's return, Meg and Jo, who both previously survived scarlet fever, send Amy away to live safely with their Aunt March. Amy laments to Laurie that she may die without ever being kissed. He promises to kiss her before she dies if she becomes ill.

Prior to Beth's illness, Jo had been Aunt March's companion for several years, and although she didn't enjoy it, she hoped she would take her to Europe. Beth gets worse, so Marmee returns home, nursing her to recovery in time for Christmas, but the illness has severely weakened her. Mr. Laurence gives his daughter's piano to Beth, Meg accepts John Brooke's proposal and Mr. March surprises them, returning home from the war.

Four years pass; Meg (now 20) and John marry, and Beth's health is worsening. Graduating from college, Laurie proposes to Jo (now 19) and asks her to go to London with him but, seeing him more as a brother than a lover, she refuses. Jo is disappointed when Aunt March decides to take 17-year-old Amy with her to Europe instead of her. She has been Aunt March's companion and wishes to further her artistic training in Europe. Crushed, Jo departs for New York City to pursue writing and experience life. There she meets Friedrich Bhaer, a German professor who challenges and stimulates her intellectually, introducing her to opera and philosophy, and encouraging her to write better stories than the lurid Victorian melodramas she has penned so far.

In Europe, Amy is reunited with Laurie. Disappointed to find he has become dissolute and irresponsible; she scolds him for pursuing her merely to become part of the March family. In return, he bitterly rebukes her for courting one of his wealthy college friends to marry into money. He asks Amy to wait for him in a letter while he works in London for his grandfather and makes himself worthy.

Jo is called home for eighteen-year-old Beth, who finally dies of the after-effects of scarlet fever (presumably rheumatic heart disease) that plagued her for the past four years. A saddened Jo retreats to the comfort of the attic, writing her life story. Upon completion, she sends it to Professor Bhaer. Meanwhile, Meg has fraternal twins Demi and Daisy.

A letter from Amy tells them Aunt March is too ill to travel, so Amy must remain in Europe with her. In London, Laurie receives a letter from Jo about Beth's death, saying Amy is in Vevey, unable to come home. He immediately goes to be at Amy's side. They finally return to the March home as spouses, to Jo's surprise and eventual delight.

Aunt March dies, leaving Jo her house. She turns it into a school. Professor Bhaer arrives with the printed galley proofs of her manuscript but, believing Jo is married, he departs to catch a train to the West, to accept a professorship. Jo runs after him, explaining the misunderstanding. She begs him not to go, he proposes, and she happily accepts.

####Little Women####
In 1868, Jo March, a teacher in New York City, goes to Mr. Dashwood, an editor who agrees to publish a story she has written. Her youngest sister, Amy, who is in Paris with their Aunt March, attends a party with their childhood friend and neighbor, Laurie. Amy becomes angry at Laurie's drunken behavior, prompting him to mock her for spending time with wealthy businessman Fred Vaughn. In New York, Jo becomes hurt when Friedrich Bhaer, a professor interested in her, gives critical feedback on her writing, angering her. After learning from a letter that her younger sister Beth's illness has worsened, Jo returns home to Concord, Massachusetts.

Seven years earlier in 1861 while at a party with her elder sister, Meg, Jo meets Laurie. On Christmas morning, the girls' mother, "Marmee", persuades them to give their breakfast to their poor neighbor Mrs. Hummel and her starving children. After returning home, they find a table full of food given to them by their neighbor and Laurie's grandfather, Mr. Laurence. Marmee then reads a letter from their father fighting in the American Civil War. Jo regularly reads to Aunt March, hoping Aunt March would invite her to Europe.

When Meg, Jo, Laurie, and John&mdash; Laurie's tutor and Meg's future husband&mdash; go to the theater, a jealous Amy burns Jo's writings. The next morning, Amy, wanting an upset Jo to forgive her, chases her and Laurie onto a lake where they are skating. They save Amy when she falls through the ice. Mr. Laurence notices Beth's quietness and invites her to play his late daughter's piano in his house. Meg sits down with John in the present after buying an expensive fabric they can't afford and expresses her unhappiness about being poor. Laurie visits Amy to apologize for his behavior, urging her not to marry Fred but instead marry him. Though in love with Laurie, Amy refuses, upset at always being second to Jo. Despite this, she also turns down Fred's proposal.

Mr. Laurence gifts his piano to Beth in the past and discovers she has contracted scarlet fever from the Hummels. To avoid the illness, Amy is sent to stay with Aunt March, who advises her to provide for her family by marrying well. John urges Meg to turn the fabric into a dress in the present to make her happy, but she reveals she had sold it and reassures him of her happiness as his wife. Beth recovers in time for Christmas in the past, and their father returns home as well. After worsening in the present, Beth dies. On Meg's wedding day in the past, Jo tries to convince her to run away, but Meg expresses her elation to marry John. Aunt March announces her European trip, taking Amy instead of Jo. After the wedding, Laurie proposes to Jo, who refuses, explaining she does not see herself married.

Marmee reveals Amy is returning from Europe with an ill Aunt March in the present. Jo wonders whether she was too quick to turn Laurie down and writes him a letter. Preparing to leave, Amy tells Laurie she turned down Fred's proposal; they kiss and later marry on the journey home. Jo and Laurie agree to remain friends, after which she discards the letter she wrote to him. Jo begins to write a novel based on her and her sisters' lives and sends the first chapters to an unimpressed Mr. Dashwood. Bhaer surprises Jo by turning up at the March house on his way to California.

In New York, Mr. Dashwood agrees to publish Jo's novel after his daughters demand to know how it ends, but he refuses to accept the protagonist remaining unmarried at the end. To appease him, Jo ends her novel with the protagonist, herself, stopping Bhaer from leaving for California. She successfully negotiates copyright and royalties with Mr. Dashwood. Following Aunt March's passing, Jo inherits her house and opens it as a school, where Meg, Amy, and Bhaer all teach. Jo observes the printing of her novel, titled "Little Women".

####Madame Bovary####
Emma, a young woman who is not yet 18 years old, packs up her belongings and prepares to leave the convent to marry the man her farmer father has arranged as her husband: country doctor Charles Bovary. However, she becomes bored and miserable in the small, provincial town of Yonville. She spends most of her time alone, reading or wandering in the garden while Charles tends to patients. Even when he is home, Emma feels bored or neglected by Charles.

Emma longs for more — excitement, passion, status, and love. She shows restraint at first, when smitten law clerk Leon Dupuis skittishly professes his affections for her. However, she is intrigued by the dashing Marquis, who makes more overt advances. Their affair emboldens her as she believes it gives her a glimpse of the good life. She spends money she does not have on lavish dresses and decorations from the obsequious dry-goods dealer Monsieur Lheureux, who is all too happy to continue extending her credit.

####The Man Who Laughs####
In late 17th-century England, court jester Barkilphedro informs King James II of the capture of Lord Clancharlie, an exiled nobleman, who has returned for his young son, Gwynplaine. The King tells Lord Clancharlie that a grin was carved upon the boy's face by Hardquanonne, a Comprachico surgeon. Lord Clancharlie is executed in an iron maiden.

Shortly afterward, the King issues a decree banishing all Comprachicos from England. A group of Comprachicos prepares to set sail from England, abandoning young Gwynplaine. The boy struggles through a snowstorm and rescues a baby girl whose mother had frozen to death. They are taken in by Ursus, a kindly philosopher-showman, and his pet wolf, Homo. Ursus realizes that the baby girl, named Dea, is blind.

Years later, Gwynplaine and Dea, now adults and in love, travel the countryside with Ursus, performing plays he has written for them. Gwynplaine's frozen smile has earned him widespread popularity as "The Laughing Man," but he is deeply ashamed of his disfigurement, believing himself unworthy of Dea's affections. Hardquanonne recognizes Gwynplaine at the Southwark Fair and sends a letter to the Duchess Josiana, which is intercepted by Barkilphedro, now an influential agent of the court. The letter claims knowledge of a living heir to the estates of Lord Clancharlie – currently being occupied by the Duchess – and suggests that she pay Hardquanonne for his silence. Barkilphedro shows the letter to Queen Anne, and his men take Hardquanonne to Chatham Prison to be tortured. The Queen sends the Duchess's fiancé, Lord Dirry-Moir, to retrieve her after she shirks her duties at the royal court. Dirry-Moir finds the Duchess shamelessly cavorting with the local men at the Southwark Fair. A brawl breaks out, and she leaves for Kensington Palace.

From a balcony, the Duchess watches Gwynplaine's act at the fair, and finds herself both sexually aroused and repelled by his disfigurement. A messenger gives him a note arranging a rendezvous at midnight, and while conflicted over his feelings for Dea, he sneaks out of the caravan that night. His departure is heard by a worried and heartbroken Dea, who finds the letter. Gwynplaine is ushered inside the Duchess's estate, where she attempts to seduce him, but is interrupted by the delivery of a pronouncement informing her of Gwynplaine's noble lineage and the Queen's decree that she marry Gwynplaine, thereby legitimizing her occupation of the late Lord Clancharlie's estates, with her engagement to Dirry-Moir already having been annulled. The Duchess begins to laugh, causing Gwynplaine to rush away, devastated at again being made into a mockery.

Gwynplaine returns home and extracts the Duchess's letter clutched in Dea's hands as she sleeps. He tears the note into pieces before breaking down into tears, overcome by guilt. Dea wakes up, relieved to find he has returned. He guides her hands to feel his smile for the first time, and she reassures him that God made her sightless so she could see only the real Gwynplaine. Guards arrive to arrest Gwynplaine, and he is taken to Chatham Prison. When the guards later march out of the prison bearing Hardquanonne's coffin, Ursus mistakenly concludes that Gwynplaine has been executed. Barkilphedro arrives to notify Ursus he has been banished from England, and cruelly lies to him that the "laughing mountebank" is dead. Hearing this from the stage, Dea faints in shock.

Gwynplaine is freed from prison and is to be made a Peer in the House of Lords. The next day, he is brought to London for his introduction ceremony by Barkilphedro at the same time as Ursus and Dea head for the Thames docks to leave the country. Their vehicle carriage wheels lock and Ursus's pet wolf, Homo, leads Dea to the House of Lords. The Peers are outraged that a clown has joined their ranks. Gwynplaine is presented to Queen Anne, who decrees Gwynplaine will marry the Duchess. Dirry-Moir brings Dea inside the building, but she is tricked into going back outside by Barkilphedro and brought to Ursus. Upset over the Peers's mockery, Gwynplaine renounces his peerage and refuses to marry the Duchess. He escapes from the guards and runs through the streets, only to find his show closed. Gwynplaine heads to the docks when he learns that Dea and Ursus were ordered to leave England, managing to elude Barkilphedro's men with the help of the villagers. When he reaches the docks, Gwynplaine's cries are heard by Homo, who leaps off the ship and swims to him. The wolf-dog mauls a guard about to attack Gwynplaine. They are pulled aboard and Gwynplaine reunites with Ursus and Dea. Together, they set sail from England.

####Memoirs of a Geisha####
In 1929, Chiyo Sakamoto and her older sister Satsu are sold off by their poor father and taken to Gion, Kyoto. Chiyo is taken in by Kayoko Nitta, known as "Mother", the proprietress of a local transliteration|ja|okiya; Satsu, deemed too unattractive, is sent to a brothel instead. Chiyo also meets "Granny" and "Auntie", the other women who run the house; Pumpkin, another young girl; and the transliteration|ja|okiya's resident geisha, Hatsumomo.

Pumpkin and Chiyo soon begin their education to become future geisha. Hatsumomo, seeing Chiyo as a potential rival, immediately treats her with abuse. Hoping she will run away, Hatsumomo tells her where she can find Satsu in the red light district. They make plans to run away the following night. When Chiyo tries to escape via the rooftops, she falls and is injured. As a result, Mother stops investing in her geisha training and instead makes her a menial servant to pay off her debts. Satsu flees Kyoto and Chiyo never sees her again.

One day, while crying on a riverbank, Chiyo encounters Chairman Ken Iwamura. He buys her a shaved ice dessert and gives her his handkerchief and some money to cheer her up. Touched by his kindness, Chiyo resolves to become a geisha so that she might become a part of the Chairman's life.

Several years later, Pumpkin debuts as a transliteration|ja|maiko under Hatsumomo's tutelage. Shortly afterwards, Chiyo is taken under the wing of Mameha, one of the district's most prominent geisha, who persuades Mother to reinvest in Chiyo's geisha training, promising to pay her twice over after her debut. Chiyo becomes a transliteration|ja|maiko and receives the name Sayuri. At a sumo match, she is reintroduced to the Chairman, but attracts the attention of his gruff business partner Toshikazu Nobu.

Thanks to Mameha's efforts, and in spite of Hatsumomo's scheming, Sayuri rises in popularity; attracting the attention of many men; including Dr. Crab, and the Baron, Mameha's own transliteration|ja|danna. In a bidding war for Sayuri's deflowering ceremony, as part of her becoming a full geisha, the winning bid is a record-breaking amount from Dr. Crab. Mother immediately names Sayuri as her adopted daughter and the heiress to the transliteration|ja|okiya, crushing Pumpkin and enraging Hatsumomo.

Upon returning home from the ceremony, Sayuri finds a drunken Hatsumomo in her room, where the latter has found the Chairman's handkerchief. This leads to a fight between them, in which Hatsumomo eventually starts a fire in the transliteration|ja|okiya. The building is saved, and Hatsumomo is banished from Gion.

Sayuri's successful career is cut short by the outbreak of World War II. The Chairman relocates her to the safety of the countryside, where she works for a kimono maker. After the war ends, Nobu asks Sayuri to help him impress an American Colonel who could approve funding for their business. She reunites with Mameha, who reluctantly agrees to help her impress the Colonel, as well as Pumpkin, who is now working as an escort.

Sayuri travels with Nobu, the Chairman, Mameha, Pumpkin, and the American soldiers to the Amami Islands. The Colonel propositions Sayuri, but she rejects him. Nobu confronts her after seeing this and confesses his desire to become her transliteration|ja|danna. Sayuri devises a plan to have Nobu catch her being intimate with the Colonel so that he will lose interest, and enlists Pumpkin's help to do so. However, Pumpkin brings the Chairman instead. When confronted, she declares it her revenge for Sayuri being adopted by Mother instead of her. Disheartened, Sayuri gives up on her pursuit for the Chairman.

After returning to Gion, Sayuri is summoned to a nearby tea-house. Expecting Nobu, she is instead surprised to see the Chairman. He confesses his feelings for Sayuri, that he always knew of her identity but refused to interfere with Nobu's feelings out of respect, and that he himself arranged for Mameha to become her mentor. Sayuri is finally able to confess her love to the Chairman and they share a kiss.

####The Men in Her Life####
A nineteenth-century circus performer becomes a celebrated dancer, but has trouble balancing her romantic and family aspirations with her career.

####Les Misérables####
In 1815, French prisoner Jean Valjean is released from the Bagne of Toulon after a nineteen-year sentence for stealing bread for his nephew. His paroled status prevents him from finding work or accommodation, but he is sheltered by the kindly Bishop of Digne. Valjean attempts to steal his silverware and is captured by police, but the bishop claims he gave him the silver, and tells him to use it to begin an honest life. Moved, Valjean breaks his parole and assumes a new identity, intending to redeem others.

Eight years later, Valjean is a respected factory owner and mayor of Montreuil, Pas-de-Calais. He is startled when Javert, formerly a Toulon prison guard, arrives as his new chief of police. Witnessing Valjean rescuing a worker trapped under a cart makes Javert suspect the former's true identity. Meanwhile, one of Valjean's workers, Fantine, is fired by the foreman when she is revealed to have an illegitimate daughter, Cosette, living with the greedy Thénardier family, to whom Fantine sends her earnings.

Out on the streets and increasingly unwell, Fantine sells her hair, teeth, and eventually her sexual favors to support Cosette. Javert arrests her when she attacks an abusive customer, but Valjean recognises her and takes her to the hospital. Learning that a man has been wrongly identified as him, Valjean reveals his identity to the court before returning to the dying Fantine, promising to care for Cosette. Javert arrives to arrest him but he escapes to the Thénardiers' inn. Valjean pays Fantine's debts, then flees from Javert with Cosette. They hide in a convent, aided by the worker he had rescued.

Nine years later, Valjean has become a philanthropist to the poor in Paris. General Lamarque, the only government official sympathetic to the poor, dies, and the revolutionist group Friends of the ABC plot against the monarchy. Marius Pontmercy, a member of the Friends, falls in love with Cosette at first sight and asks Éponine, the Thénardiers' daughter, to find her. He and Cosette meet and confess their love; Éponine, herself in love with Marius, is heartbroken.

Thénardier attempts to rob Valjean's house, but Éponine stops him. Fearing Javert is near, Valjean plans to flee to England with Cosette. Cosette, wanting to stay near Marius, is hesitant about the idea at first, but when Valjean ignores her pleas, she leaves Marius a letter, which Éponine hides from him. During Lamarque's funeral procession, the revolt begins and barricades are built across Paris. Javert poses as an ally to spy on the rebels, but the street urchin Gavroche exposes him as a policeman. During the first skirmish against the soldiers, Éponine takes a bullet for Marius and dies in his arms, giving him Cosette's letter and confessing her love. Marius' answer to Cosette is intercepted by Valjean, who joins the revolt to protect him. Valjean offers to execute the imprisoned Javert, but releases him instead, pretending he shot him.

By dawn, the soldiers storm the barricade and kill everyone except Marius and Valjean, who escape into the sewers. Thénardier comes across an unconscious Marius and steals his ring, before Valjean threatens him into revealing the way out. Valjean finds Javert waiting for him, but seeing that Marius is close to death, he lets them go. Morally disturbed by the mercy of his nemesis and his own in return, Javert kills himself by throwing himself in the Seine. Marius recovers, traumatized by the death of his friends.

Marius and Cosette are reunited but Valjean, concerned his past would threaten their happiness, makes plans to leave. He reveals his past to Marius, who promises to remain silent. At Marius and Cosette's wedding, the Thénardiers crash the reception to blackmail him; Thénardier claims he witnessed Valjean carrying a murdered corpse and shows the stolen ring, which Marius recognises as his own. Realizing Valjean saved him from the barricade, Marius forces Thénardier to reveal where he is, and the Thénardiers are thrown out of the wedding. At the convent, Cosette and Marius find the dying Valjean, who gives them letters of confession before dying peacefully. His spirit is guided by visions of Fantine and the Bishop to join Éponine, Gavroche and the Friends of the ABC in the afterlife.

####Mississippi####
Commodore Jackson (W. C. Fields) is the captain of a Mississippi showboat in the late nineteenth century. Tom Grayson (Bing Crosby) is engaged to be married and has been disgraced for refusing to fight a duel with Major Patterson (John Miljan).

Accused of being a coward, Grayson joins Jackson's showboat. Over the duration of the film, the behavior of the meek and mild Tom Grayson alters as a consequence of the constant representation of him, by Commodore Jackson, as The Notorious Colonel Steele, the Singing Killer, and the constant attribution, by Jackson, of duelling victories by Grayson to unrelated corpses freshly dragged from the river beside the showboat as "yet another victim of the notorious Colonel Steele, the Singing Killer".

The film provides sufficient opportunities for Crosby to sing the Rodgers and Hart songs, including the centerpiece number, "Soon", while Fields gets to tell some outlandish stories. Crosby and Fields worked well together and there is one memorable scene in which Fields tries to tell Crosby how to act tougher. In the film, Crosby does a number of brilliantly engineered sight gags involving a chair and a bowie knife. Another highlight is Fields' remarkable story about his exploits among one notorious Indian tribe.

####Monsieur Beaucaire####
The Duke of Chartres is in love with Princess Henriette, but she seemingly wants nothing to do with him. Eventually he grows tired of her insults and flees to England when Louis XV insists that the two marry. He goes undercover as Monsieur Beaucaire, the barber of the French Ambassador, and finds that he enjoys the freedom of a commoner’s life. After catching the Duke of Winterset cheating at cards, he forces him to introduce him as a nobleman to Lady Mary, with whom he has become infatuated. When Lady Mary is led to believe that the Duke of Chartres is merely a barber she loses interest in him. She eventually learns that he is a nobleman after all and tries to win him back, but the Duke of Chartres opts to return to France and Princess Henriette who now returns his affection.

####Moulin Rouge!####
In 1900 in Paris, Christian, a young writer depressed about the recent death of the woman he loved, begins writing their story on his typewriter.

A year earlier, he arrives in the Montmartre district of Paris to join the Bohemian movement. He suddenly meets Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec and his troupe of performers who are writing a play called "Spectacular Spectacular". After Christian helps them complete the play, they go to the Moulin Rouge where they hope Christian’s talents will impress Satine, the star performer and courtesan, who will in turn convince Harold Zidler, the proprietor of the Moulin Rouge, to let Christian write the show. However, Zidler plans to have the wealthy, powerful and unscrupulous Duke of Monroth sleep with Satine in exchange for potential financing to convert the club into a theater.

That night, Satine mistakes Christian for the Duke and attempts to seduce him by dancing with him before retiring to her private chamber with him to discuss things privately, but eventually Christian reveals his true identity. After the Duke interrupts them, Satine claims that the two of them and the Bohemians were rehearsing "Spectacular Spectacular". Aided by Zidler, Christian and the Bohemians improvise a story for the Duke about a beautiful Indian courtesan who falls in love with a poor sitar player she mistook for an evil maharaja. Approving the story, the Duke agrees to invest, but only if Satine and the Moulin Rouge are turned over to him. Later, Satine claims not to be in love with Christian, but he eventually wears down her resolve and they kiss.

During construction at the Moulin Rouge, Christian and Satine’s love deepens while the Duke becomes frustrated with all the time he thinks Satine is spending with Christian working on the play. To calm him, Zidler arranges for Satine to spend the night with the Duke and angrily tells her to end their affair. She misses the dinner when she falls unconscious, leading a doctor to diagnose a fatal case of consumption. She does try to end things by telling Christian that their relationship is endangering the production, but Christian writes a secret song to include in the show that affirms their unending, passionate love.

At the final rehearsal, Nini, a can-can dancer jealous of Satine's popularity, hints to the Duke that the play represents the relationship between him, Christian, and Satine. Enraged, the Duke demands that the show ends with the courtesan marrying the maharaja, instead of Christian’s ending where she marries the sitar player. Satine promises to spend the night with him after which they will decide on the ending. Ultimately, she fails to seduce the Duke due to her feelings for Christian, and Le Chocolat, one of the cabaret dancers, saves her from the Duke's attempt to rape her. Christian decides that he and Satine should leave the show behind and run away to be together while the Duke vows to kill Christian.

Zidler finds Satine in her dressing room packing. He tells her that her illness is fatal and that the Duke is planning on murdering Christian, and that if she wants Christian to live, she will cut him off completely and be with the Duke. Mustering all her acting abilities, she complies, leaving Christian devastated.

On the opening night of the show, in front of a full audience, Christian denounces Satine and vows to give her to the Duke before walking off the stage, but Toulouse-Lautrec cries out from the rafters, "The greatest thing you'll ever learn is just to love and be loved in return." This spurs Satine to sing their secret song, causing Christian to change his mind. After Zidler and the company thwart several attempts by the Duke and his bodyguard to kill Christian, the show ends with Christian and Satine proclaiming their love as the Duke permanently storms out of the cabaret. The audience erupts in applause, but Satine collapses after the curtains close. Before dying, she tells Christian to write their story so she will always be with him.

In the present, the Moulin Rouge is in disrepair, the Duke and the Bohemians are gone, and Christian finishes his and Satine’s story, declaring their love will live forever.

####My Cousin Rachel####
On the coast of Cornwall, the boy Philip Ashley is raised by his older and wealthy cousin Ambrose on a large estate. When the weather in Cornwall threatens Ambrose's health, he leaves the estate for a warmer climate, making his way to Florence and leaving Philip behind with his godfather Nick Kendall. In Florence, Ambrose decides to marry his cousin Rachel. However, back in Cornwall, Philip receives disturbing letters from Ambrose, complaining of Rachel's treatment as well as that of the physicians taking care of him. Mr. Kendall believes Ambrose unsound of mind, raising the possibility that he has inherited his deceased father's brain tumour. When Philip travels to Florence, he meets a man named Guido Rainaldi, who tells him Ambrose has died of a brain tumour, producing a death certificate as proof, and that his will left the Cornwall estate to him upon his 25th birthday. Rachel, who left Florence the day before Philip arrived, has inherited nothing and has made no claim on the estate. Unconvinced, Philip suspects Rachel of murder and vows revenge.


Months later, after returning to Cornwall, Philip is informed by Mr. Kendall that Rachel has arrived in Cornwall for a visit. He invites her to the house and discovers she is different from what he imagined – she is beautiful, ladylike, and kind. At the end of the weekend, when she intends to leave, he shows her Ambrose's letters and admits he planned to accuse her of wrongdoing; but since he no longer suspects her, he throws the letters in the fireplace to demonstrate his faith in her. He later instructs his executor, Mr. Kendall, to award Rachel an extraordinarily generous allowance of £5,000 per annum, suggesting the money is hers anyway. Rachel responds with gratitude and warmth and stays at the estate for an extended period, despite gossip. Yet when Mr. Kendall tells Philip that Rachel has overdrawn her accounts, and that in Florence she was notorious for "loose" living, Philip rejects Nick's warnings and instead turns over the entire estate to Rachel on his 25th birthday. When the day arrives, he solicits from her a vague romantic promise, which she gives, and they passionately kiss. However, the next day when Philip announces to his friends that he and Rachel are engaged to be wed, Rachel dismisses the announcement as lunacy. Rachel later tells Philip that her promise did not mean marriage, that she will never marry him, and she only showed him love the previous night because of the wealth he gave her.

Emotionally devastated, Philip succumbs to bouts of fever and delirium, but Rachel nurses him back to health. In his fever, Philip imagines a wedding with Rachel, and wakes up three weeks later convinced they are married, and surprised to hear from the servants that she intends to move back to Florence. Before she leaves, Philip becomes convinced that Rachel is attempting to poison him and that she indeed murdered Ambrose. So great is his anger toward Rachel that he neglects to warn her about a foot bridge in need of repair at the edge of the estate. Instead, Philip and his friend Louise secretly rummage through Rachel's room for a letter from Rainaldi, assuming it will incriminate Rachel. Instead, upon discovering and reading the letter, they find out that Rainaldi merely discussed Rachel's affections for Philip and suggests she take Philip with her when visiting Florence. In the meantime, Philip finds Rachel has indeed suffered a fatal accident while crossing the unrepaired foot-bridge. With her last words, she asks Philip why he did not warn her of the danger. She then dies, leaving Philip to wonder for the rest of his life about his own implicit guilt as to the death of the innocent Rachel.

####My Forbidden Past####
The events take place in the 1890s in New Orleans. Dr. Mark Lucas (Robert Mitchum) wrongly believes Barbara Beaurevel (Ava Gardner) refused him and betrayed him after their previously planned elopement. Thus Mark returns from South America accompanied by Corinne (Janis Carter), a woman he married for her beauty but not for love, due to this still lingering grudge against Barbara. She feels disappointed on meeting Corinne, yet she's determined to win him back. Barbara, already having inherited a large sum from her socially of ill repute grandmother, bribes her cousin Paul (Melvyn Douglas) into seducing Corinne and thereby breaking up the marriage. Unluckily this cold-blooded plan ends up in Corinne's death by accident and Mark finds himself under strong suspicion of murder. In the end, Barbara, realizing her insidious act at the trial, empathetically confesses everything, thereby once again becoming a woman worthy of love but also losing the local gentry's consideration.

####The New World####
In 1607, Pocahontas, the adventurous daughter of Chief Powhatan, and others from her tribe witness the arrival of three ships sent by English royal charter to found a colony in the New World. Aboard one ship is Captain John Smith, sentenced to death for mutinous remarks, but once ashore pardoned by Captain Christopher Newport, leader of the expedition.

While the settlement's prospects are initially bright, disease, poor discipline, supply shortages, and tensions with local Native Americans, whom Newport calls "the naturals", jeopardize the expedition. Taking a small group upriver to seek trade while Newport returns to England for supplies, Smith is captured by Native Americans and brought before Chief Powhatan. After being questioned, the captain is nearly executed but spared when Pocahontas intervenes.

Living as the Native Americans’ prisoner, Smith is treated well, earning the tribe's friendship and respect. Coming to admire this new way of life, he falls deeply in love with Pocahontas, who is intrigued by the Englishman and his ways. The chief returns Smith to Jamestown with the understanding that the English are to leave the following spring, once their boats return.

Smith discovers the settlement in turmoil and is pressed into accepting the governorship, finding the peace he had with the Natives replaced by privation, death, and the difficulties of his new position. Smith wishes to return to Pocahontas but dismisses the idea, thinking of his time among the Native Americans as "a dream". The settlers dwindle throughout the brutal winter, and are saved only when Pocahontas and a rescue party arrive with food, clothing, and supplies.

As spring arrives, Powhatan realizes that the English do not intend to leave. Discovering his daughter's actions, he orders an attack on Jamestown and exiles Pocahontas. Repulsing the attack, the settlers learn of Pocahontas's banishment. The English sea captain Samuel Argall convinces them on a trading expedition up the Potomac River to abduct Pocahontas from the Patawomecks as a prisoner in order to negotiate with her father in exchange for captive settlers, but not their stolen weapons and tools. Opposing this plan, Smith is removed as governor, but renews his love affair after Pocahontas is brought to Jamestown. Captain Newport returns, telling Smith of an offer from the king to lead his own expedition to find passage to the East Indies. Torn between his love and his career, Smith decides to return to England. Before departing, he leaves instructions with another settler, who later tells Pocahontas that Smith died in the crossing.

Devastated, Pocahontas sinks into depression. Living in Jamestown, she is eventually comforted by a new settler, John Rolfe, who helps her adapt to the English way of life. She is baptized, educated, and eventually married to Rolfe and gives birth to a son, Thomas. She later learns Captain Smith is still alive, news to which she has a violent reaction; she finds herself rejecting Rolfe and retreats to her loyalty to Smith, thinking fate spared his life and they are to be reunited. Rolfe and his family are given a chance to travel to England. Arriving in London and sharing an audience with the king and queen, Pocahontas is overwhelmed by the wonders of this "New World."

She meets privately with Smith, who admits he may have made a mistake in choosing his career over Pocahontas. He says that what they experienced in Virginia was not a dream but instead "the only truth". Asked if he ever found his Indies, he replies, "I may have sailed past them." They part, never to meet again. Realizing Rolfe is the man she thought he was and more, Pocahontas finally accepts him as her husband and love. The couple make arrangements to return to Virginia, but Pocahontas falls ill and dies near Gravesend. Rolfe still decides to return to Virginia with Thomas.

The film ends with images of the young adult Pocahontas and her young son happily playing in the gardens of their English estate. Rolfe, in a voice-over, reads a letter addressed to their only son about his deceased Native American mother, who is heard to say, "Mother, now I know where you live," with concluding images of nature in the New World.

####The Notebook####
At a modern-day nursing home, an elderly man named Duke reads a romantic story from his notebook to a female patient, which tells the following:

In 1940, at a carnival in Seabrook Island, South Carolina, poor lumber mill worker Noah Calhoun sees 17-year-old heiress Allison "Allie" Hamilton, who is spending the summer in town with her parents. He pursues her and they begin a summer romance. One night, Allie goes to Noah's house and meets his father, Frank Calhoun, who immediately likes her. A few days later, Noah is invited to a luncheon at Allie's house by her parents, John and Anne Hamilton, but they are unimpressed with Noah because he doesn't fit in with the other wealthy attendees. The same night, Noah takes Allie to an abandoned house called The Windsor Plantation. He tells her he intends to buy and restore the house for themselves. As the sun sets, they share a romantic moment and they start to make love for the first time. They are interrupted by Noah's friend Fin, who informs them that Allie's parents have the police out looking for her. When Allie and Noah return to her parents' mansion, Allie's mother Anne makes it clear that they do not approve of the relationship and forbid her from seeing him. Noah leaves and Allie goes after him. An argument ensues and Allie impulsively breaks up with Noah in a fit of frustration, but immediately regrets it. The next morning, Anne announces that the Hamilton family will be returning home to Charleston effective immediately. Allie tries to find Noah at the lumber mill to apologize but cannot find him, and instead asks Fin to tell Noah that she loves him. Noah rushes to Allie's house after Fin gives him the message but finds the gates locked.

Noah writes a letter to Allie every day for a year, but Allie's mother intercepts and hides them. When all of Noah's 365 letters go unanswered, Noah stops writing and decides to move on. He enlists with Fin to fight in World War II, Battle of the Bulge where Fin loses his life in battle. Allie volunteers as a nurse in a hospital for wounded soldiers where she meets Captain Lon Hammond Jr., a young lawyer who comes from old Southern money. After a few years, the two become engaged, much to the delight of Allie's parents.

Noah returns from the war to find that his father had sold their home so Noah could afford to buy The Windsor Plantation. He convinces himself that if he restores the house, Allie will find her way back to him. Despite completing the house, Noah restrains from selling it to any buyers. While Allie tries on her wedding dress, she sees a photo of Noah in a newspaper where he stands smiling in front of the renovated house.

Allie is overwhelmed with the memories of summer romance and unresolved feelings for Noah and seeks permission from Lon to take a solo trip before the wedding. She returns to Seabrook to find Noah living in their dream house. The two rekindle and consummate their relationship. Allie learns about the letters Noah had written to her and she realizes she never got them. Several days later, Allie's mother appears on Noah's doorstep to warn Allie that Lon has followed her to Seabrook. She also reveals that like her daughter, she once loved a lower-class young man in Seabrook and still thinks about him and how their lives might have been different had she chosen better. She hands over Noah's letters to Allie and tells her she hopes Allie makes the right choice. Noah and Allie get into a heated argument where the former forces the latter to think about what she wants and to stick by it no matter how hard it is. Allie makes the difficult choice to drive back to her hotel and confess her infidelity to Lon. Lon says he still loves her and wants her back for himself but even though she knows she shouldn't leave Lon, she decides to follow her heart and returns to Noah.

In the present, the elderly woman listening to the story is revealed to be Allie, now suffering from dementia. It is revealed that Duke is Noah, who goes by a pseudonym so as not to startle her in her disoriented state. During the early stages of her illness, Allie had written a journal detailing their romance and life together so he could read it to her to help her come back to him. Noah has kept the promise by reading to her almost every day. One day, when he is almost at the end of the story, reading from the notebook, she briefly recognizes him. She asks how long they have before she forgets again and Duke tells her they have no more than five minutes. They dance to their song, "I'll Be Seeing You", and she asks him about their kids. But Allie's dementia quickly relapses and she panics to see a stranger touching her. The medical personnel sedate her to control her hysterical reaction. Duke has a heart attack and is treated in the nursing home while Allie is taken to rest in the dementia ward. Upon recovering and despite not being allowed in, Duke goes to Allie's room in the night and watches her sleep. She instantly recognizes him again. They kiss, hold hands and fall asleep. In the morning, the nurse discovers both of them having passed away peacefully in their sleep, still holding hands.

####Operator 13####
In the American Civil War, Union forces are reeling after their defeat in the Second Battle of Bull Run. The Pauline Cushman Players are performing for wounded soldiers at a Union military hospital. Pauline, a spy who works for Allan Pinkerton, recommends her close friend and fellow showgirl Gail to become a spy for the Union cause as Operator 13 (the previous Operator 13 having been caught and shot).

Gail, disguised in blackface, accompanies Pauline south as her octaroon black maid. The Confederates become aware there is a spy in their midst, and Captain Gailliard is asked to help find out who it is. While washing General Stuart’s clothes, Gail hears he will attend a ball that night. At the ball, Captain Gailliard suspects that Pauline is a spy and finds evidence in her room. Pauline, trying to flee, is arrested and Gail is forced to testify against her; refusing to divulge her contact, Pauline is sentenced to death. Both women manage to escape and return to the Union lines.

Pinkerton decides to use Gail to trap Gailliard, and as part of the plan, she jeers at a parade of Union soldiers and is thought to be a heroine in the Southern newspapers. Gail, as Anne Claibourne, is pardoned by Lincoln and heads south, where Captain Gailliard is attracted to her. However, Gail is later told by Stuart's groom, a fellow spy, that she is known to be a spy and she flees in a Confederate uniform. Gailliard grabs her horse, but she strikes him with a gun and rides off with the groom. Gailliard and others pursue them.

The fugitives hide in an abandoned farmhouse. Gailliard finds her. Fortunately for her, a group of Union soldiers are nearby. When they spot the groom, still wearing a Confederate uniform, they shoot him. Gail and Gailliard watch undetected as a Confederate is executed by a Union firing squad. Gail tells Gailliard she loves him and refuses to betray him to the soldiers. Then the Confederates attack. In the fighting, Gail persuades Gailliard to slip away in the confusion and rejoin his side.

The war effectively comes to an end when Robert E. Lee surrenders to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House. Afterward, Gail and Gailliard reconcile.

####Out of Africa####
Karen Blixen recalls her life in Africa, where she moved in 1913 as an unmarried, wealthy Dane. After having been spurned by her Swedish nobleman lover, she asks his brother whom she is good friends with, Baron Bror Blixen, to marry out of mutual convenience, and they move to the vicinity of Nairobi, British East Africa.  Using her funds, he is to set up a dairy ranch, with her joining him a few months later, at which time they will marry. En route to Nairobi, her train is hailed by a big-game hunter named Denys Finch Hatton, who knows her fiancé and entrusts his haul of ivory to her.

She is greeted at the railway station by Farah, the Somali headman hired by Bror, who is nowhere to be found. She is taken to the recently founded Muthaiga Club. She enters the men-only salon to ask for her husband and, because of her gender, is asked to leave. Karen and Bror marry before the day is out, and she becomes Baroness Blixen.

She then learns that Bror has changed their agreed-upon plan and has spent her money to establish a coffee farm. She quickly learns that the farm is at too high an elevation to offer much of a chance of success. She needs Bror's help in building and managing this farm, but his interest is more in guiding game hunting safaris than in farming.

Karen comes to love Africa and the African people, and is taken in by the breathtaking view of the nearby Ngong Hills and the Great Rift Valley beyond. She looks after the Kikuyu people who are squatting on her land, establishes a school for them, helps with their medical needs, and arbitrates their disputes. Meanwhile, she also attempts to establish a formal European homelife on par with the other upper class colonists in the area. She becomes friends with a young woman, Felicity (whose character is based on a young Beryl Markham). Eventually, Karen and Bror's feelings for one another deepen and they consummate their marriage. However, despite his genuine feelings for Karen, Bror continues to pursue other sexual relationships.

As the First World War reaches East Africa, the colonists form a militia led by the colonial patriarch Lord Delamere, which includes Denys and Bror among their number. A military expedition sets out in search of the forces from the neighboring German colony of German East Africa. Responding to the militia's need for supplies, Karen leads a difficult expedition to find them and returns safely. Shortly after the end of the war, in the evenings, Karen makes up exotic and imaginative stories to entertain her visitors.

Karen discovers that Bror has given her syphilis. As she is unable to receive proper treatment in Nairobi, she returns to Denmark for treatment and recuperation. Bror agrees to manage the farm while she is away. When she returns, now unable to bear children, Bror resumes his safari work, and they begin to live separately.

The relationship between Karen and Denys develops, and he comes to live with her. Denys acquires a Gipsy Moth biplane and often takes Karen flying. Karen and Bror divorce when Bror finds another woman he wants to marry. This causes Karen to confront Denys regarding the status of their relationship which she would like to solidify, whereas he would rather maintain his autonomy. When Karen learns that Denys plans to take one of their female acquaintances, Felicity, on a private safari, she confronts Denys for not sharing her desire for a monogamous, domestic relationship. He assures her he wants to be with only her and states that a marriage is immaterial to how he feels about her. Eventually, this drives them apart and, refusing to meet Karen's ultimatium not to take Felicity flying, he moves out.

The farm eventually yields a good harvest, but a fire destroys much of the farm and factory, forcing her to sell out. She prepares for her departure from Kenya to Denmark by appealing to the incoming governor to provide land for her Kikuyu workers to allow them to stay together, and by selling most of her remaining possessions at a rummage sale.  Denys visits the now-empty house and Karen comments that the house should have been (empty) all-along and, as with her other efforts, the returning of things to their natural state is as it should be. Denys says that he was just getting used to her things and that he no longer feels comfortable alone now that he has realized his feelings for her have changed him. He asks to join her on her journey back to Mombasa.

As he is about to depart for a safari scouting trip in his airplane, they agree that the following Friday he will return and fly her to Mombasa; with Karen then continuing on to Denmark. Friday comes and Denys does not appear. Bror then arrives to tell her that Denys' biplane has crashed and burned in Tsavo.  During Denys' funeral, Karen recites an excerpt of a poem by A. E. Housman about a lauded athlete dying young who, as with Denys, is not fated to decline into old age. Later, as she is about to depart for good, she goes to the Muthaiga Club to complete arrangements for forwarding any mail. The members, having come to admire her, invite her into the men-only salon for a toast. At the railway station, she gives Farah the compass that Denys had given to her and says goodbye to Farah, then turns back to ask him to say her name, so she can hear his voice one last time. Later, Farah writes to Karen in Denmark, telling her that a pair of lions often visit Denys' grave.

As the movie ends, the on-screen narrative notes that Karen later became a published author under the pen name Isak Dinesen. Among her work is the memoir about her experiences in Africa, "Out of Africa", the first line from which is used to introduce this film. She never returned to Africa.

####The Painted Veil####
On a brief trip to London in the early 1920s, earnest and bookish bacteriologist Walter Fane is dazzled by Kitty Garstin, a London socialite. He proposes; she accepts ("only to get as far away from [her] mother as possible"), and the couple have a honeymoon in Venice. They travel to Walter's medical post in Shanghai, where he is stationed in a government lab studying infectious diseases. They are ill-suited, with Kitty much more interested in parties and the social life of the British expatriate community.

She meets Charles Townsend, a married British vice consul, and they have an affair. When Walter finds out, he threatens divorce for adultery unless she accompanies him to a village in a remote area of China where he has volunteered to treat victims of an unchecked cholera epidemic. Kitty begs for a quiet divorce, which he initially refuses, but later says only if Townsend will leave his wife Dorothy to marry her. Charles declines to accept, despite earlier claiming his love for Kitty.

The couple embark upon an arduous, two-week-long overland journey to the mountainous inland region, which is considerably faster and much easier if they traveled by river, but Walter is determined to make Kitty as uncomfortable as possible. Upon their arrival in Mei-tan-fu, she discovers they will be living in near-squalor, far removed from the town. Their cheerful neighbor Waddington is a British deputy commissioner living in relative opulence with Wan Xi, a young Chinese woman.

Walter and Kitty barely speak. Except for a cook and a Chinese soldier assigned to guard her during unrest due to the Chinese civil war, she is alone for long hours. After visiting an orphanage run by a group of French nuns, Kitty volunteers and she is assigned to work in the music room. She is surprised to learn from the Mother Superior that her husband loves children, especially babies. She begins to see him differently, that he can be unselfish and caring. When he sees her with the children, he also realizes she is not as shallow and selfish as he had thought. Their marriage begins to blossom in the midst of the epidemic. She soon learns she is pregnant, but is unsure who the father is. Walter – in love with Kitty again – assures her it doesn't matter.

The cholera epidemic takes many victims. Just as Walter and the locals are starting to get it under control – due to his creating a system of aqueducts to transport clean water – cholera-carrying refugees from elsewhere arrive in the area, and Walter sets up a camp for them outside town. He contracts the disease and Kitty lovingly nurses him, but he dies, and she is devastated. Bereft and pregnant, she leaves China.

Five years later, Kitty is seen in London, well-dressed and apparently happy, shopping with her young son, Walter. They are picking flowers for their visit to Walter's grandfather. They meet Townsend by chance on the street, and he suggests that Kitty meet with him. Asking young Walter his age, he realizes from the reply that he might be the boy's father.

Kitty rejects his overtures and walks away. When her son asks who Townsend is, she replies: "No one important, darling".

####Peter Ibbetson####
Gogo is a young boy of English extraction growing up in Paris. He shares a friendly but often combative relationship with the neighbor girl, Mimsey. After his mother dies, Gogo is taken to England by his uncle who gives him an English name based on his mother's maiden name, transforming Gogo into Peter Ibbetson. "So ended the first chapter in the strange foreshadowed life of Peter Ibbetson."

Now an adult Englishman, Ibbetson is an architect working in Yorkshire on a restoration job for the Duke of Towers, a peer of the realm. He falls in love with Mary, Duchess of Towers, and she with him, although she is already married. When the duke discovers this, he callously demands they explain themselves. Peter then realizes that Mary is his childhood sweetheart. All these years, Mary has kept, in the dresser beside her bed, the dress she wore at their last childhood meeting.

The Duke becomes jealous and pulls a gun on Ibbetson. Ibbetson manages to kill the Duke in self-defense. "So Death ended the second chapter. And then, in a prison on the bleak English moors..."

Ibbetson is unjustly convicted of murder, sentenced to life in prison, and despairs that he will never see Mary again. In a fight with his guards, he breaks his back and lies unconscious. Mary visits him in his dreams and convinces him that they can continue to live together in one another's dreams, which connect them spiritually. Peter can leave prison to join Mary in sunlit glades and meadows, but only in his slumbers. "...and so, many years went by."

Though the years pass, Peter and Mary remain youthful in their dreams. Mary eventually dies of old age, but she goes to her usual dream rendezvous one last time and speaks to Peter from beyond. Peter, back on his bed in prison, promises to join her now, and dies.

####The Phantom of the Opera####
In 1919, a public auction was held to clear a dilapidated Paris opera house's vaults. The elderly Viscount Raoul de Chagny bids against Madame Giry, the retired ballet instructor of the theatre, for a papier-mâché music box shaped like a barrel organ with the figure of a cymbal-playing monkey, attached to it. The auctioneer presents a repaired chandelier, relating it to "the strange affair of the Phantom of the Opera". As it is hoisted up to the roof, the story moves back to 1870.

The theatre prepares for the performance of the grand opera "Hannibal", headed by a soprano, Carlotta Giudicelli. One of the dancers, Christine Daaé, recognizes Raoul as a childhood sweetheart and wonders if he will also acknowledge her, but he leaves without seeing her. Theatre manager Monsieur Lefèvre plans to retire, leaving the theatre under the ownership of Richard Firmin and Gilles André, who introduce their patron, the young Raoul.

Carlotta refuses to perform after being tormented for three years by the theatre's resident "Opera Ghost", a mysterious figure said to live in the catacombs below. Facing the performance's cancellation, Madame Giry suggests that Christine be the lead actress. Christine displays her singing talent and is a massive success on opening night.

Christine tells her best friend Meg, Giry's daughter, that she is being coached by a tutor she calls the "Angel of Music". Christine reunites with Raoul, in whom she confides that she has been visited by the Angel of Music her deceased father promised he would send her after his death. Raoul, however, dismisses Christine's story. That night, the masked Opera Ghost, known as the "Phantom", appears before Christine from her dressing room mirror, spiriting her to his underground lair. After the Phantom shows Christine a mannequin of her dressed in a wedding dress he made for her, Christine faints and sleeps in the Phantom's lair. This point presumes that Christine has been missing.

Once Christine awakes and sees the Phantom, she removes his mask out of curiosity. The Phantom reacts violently and covers his face with his hand. After the duo has a moment of understanding, Christine returns the front to the Phantom, and the latter then returns her to the theatre unharmed but orders the managers to make her the lead in "Il Muto". However, the managers choose Carlotta instead. During the performance, the Phantom switches Carlotta's throat spray, causing her to sing out of tune, and Christine replaces her. The Phantom encounters stagehand Joseph Buquet and hangs him above the stage. Christine and Raoul flee to the roof, declaring their love for each other. The Phantom, now heartbroken after witnessing the whole scene, vows revenge.

Three months later, in 1871, Christine and Raoul announced their engagement at a New Year masquerade ball. The Phantom crashes the ball and orders his opera, "Don Juan Triumphant", to be performed. Upon seeing Christine's engagement ring, the Phantom steals it and flees, pursued by Raoul, but Giry stops him. Giry explains that when she was younger, she met the Phantom, a deformed young boy, billed in a freak show and abused by the owner. When the Phantom rebelled and strangled the owner to death, Giry helped him evade the resulting mob and hid him within the opera house. The next day, Christine visits her father's tomb with the Phantom posing as his spirit to win her back, but Raoul intervenes. The Phantom and Raoul duel with each other before Raoul eventually knocks the Phantom down and flees with Christine.

Raoul and the managers plan to capture the Phantom during his opera. The Phantom murders the lead tenor, Ubaldo Piangi, and takes his place to sing with Christine. Christine unmasks the Phantom during their passionate duet, revealing his deformity to the horrified audience. The Phantom then abducts Christine and retreats as he causes the chandelier to crash and sets the opera house on fire to cover his tracks, but a mob forms to hunt him down with the police. Giry leads Raoul to the Phantom's lair to rescue Christine, while Meg also leads the pack.

The Phantom has Christine wear the wedding dress and proposes marriage. Christine tries to reason with him by admitting that she only fears his malicious acts, not his appearance. When Raoul arrives, the Phantom threatens to kill him unless Christine weds him. Pitying the Phantom, Christine kisses him. Moved by her kindness, the Phantom allows the lovers to leave. Comforted by the music box, the Phantom weeps alone, and Christine lets him keep her engagement ring to remember her by. He then escapes before the mob and the police arrive, with Meg finding only his discarded mask. In the present, Raoul visits the recently deceased Christine's grave and places the Phantom's music box before it. Before leaving, he notices a freshly laid rose with Christine's ring attached to its stem, implying that the Phantom is still alive and will always love her.

####Phantom Thread####
In 1954 London, fashion designer Reynolds Woodcock creates dresses for members of high society, even royalty. His clients view him as a genius whose creations enable them to become their best selves; but his creativity and charm are matched by his obsessive and controlling personality. Cyril, his sister, manages the day-to-day operations of his fashion house and tries to protect him from anything that might distract him from his work. The superstitious Reynolds is haunted by the death of their mother, and often stitches hidden messages into the linings of the dresses he makes.

After designing a new gown for a revered client, Lady Harding, Reynolds visits a restaurant near his country house and meets a foreign waitress, Alma Elson. She accepts his invitation to dinner. Their relationship blossoms, and she moves in with him, becoming his model, muse, and lover, although the physicality between the two is very subtle. Cyril initially distrusts Alma but comes to respect her willfulness and determination.

At first, Alma enjoys being a part of Reynolds's work, but he proves aloof, hard to please, and finicky; as a result, they start to bicker. When Alma tries to show her love for Reynolds by preparing a romantic dinner, he lashes out, saying he will not tolerate deviations from the routines he has worked hard to perfect. Alma retaliates by poisoning Reynolds's tea with wild mushrooms gathered outside the country house. As he readies a wedding gown for a Belgian princess, Reynolds collapses, damaging the dress and forcing his staff to work all night to repair it. He becomes gravely ill and has hallucinations of his mother.  Alma stays by his side, tirelessly nursing him back to health.

After Reynolds recovers, he tells Alma that a house that does not change "is a dead house," and asks her to marry him.  Taken aback, she hesitates but then accepts. Following a pleasant honeymoon in Switzerland, however, Reynolds and Alma start bickering again as Reynolds's domineering personality reasserts itself. Cyril reveals to Reynolds that Lady Harding is now a client at a rival fashion house, and suggests that his classic, conservative designs may be going out of style. Reynolds blames Alma for being more a distraction than an inspiration, and Alma overhears him tell Cyril that it may be time to end the marriage.

At the country house, Alma makes Reynolds an omelette poisoned with the same mushrooms as before. As he chews his first bite, she informs him that she wants him weak and vulnerable so that he has to depend on her to take care of him. Reynolds willingly swallows the bite and tells her to kiss him before he is sick. As Reynolds lies ill once again, Alma imagines their future with children, a rich social life, and with a bigger role for her in the dressmaking business. She acknowledges that while there may be challenges ahead, their love and their complementary needs can overcome them.

####Poker Alice####
Alice Moffit, a professional gambler, comes to 1880s Arizona to attempt to beat anyone she can find at her favorite game, poker: that is why she is called 'Poker Alice'. Along the way, she wins a hand and also wins a brothel wherein the allure of sex and money are tempting. Interested in staying a gambler, she must find a way to leave being a madam and decide whether she will choose as her fiancé her cousin John or the local sheriff.

####Queen Christina####
Queen Christina of Sweden (Greta Garbo) is devoted to her country and the welfare of her people. As queen, she favors peace for Sweden and argues convincingly for an end to the Thirty Years' War, saying:

<blockquote>Spoils, glory, flags and trumpets! What is behind these high-sounding words? Death and destruction, triumphals of crippled men, Sweden victorious in a ravaged Europe, an island in a dead sea. I tell you, I want no more of it. I want for my people security and happiness. I want to cultivate the arts of peace, the arts of life. I want peace and peace I will have!</blockquote>

Christina, who first took the throne at age six upon the death of her father in battle, is depicted as being so devoted to both governing well and educating herself that she has spurned any kind of serious romance or marriage, despite pressure from her councilors and court to marry her heroic cousin Karl Gustav (Reginald Owen) and produce an heir. One day, in an effort to escape the restrictions of her royal life, she sneaks out of town and ends up at the same inn as Antonio (John Gilbert), a Spanish envoy on his way to the capital. The two talk and become friends, though Antonio thinks Christine is a man because of the way she is dressed. When the innkeeper, who is also unaware of Christine's identity, asks if she will let Antonio share her bed because there is no room available for him, Christine is unable to come up with a suitable reason to deny the request. In her room, she reveals to Antonio that she is a woman, but not that she is a queen, and they spend the night together. Their tryst is extended by a few days when they become snowbound at the inn.

When the time comes for Christina and Antonio to part, Christina assures Antonio that they will reunite in Stockholm. To his surprise, this occurs when the Spaniard is presented to the Queen, whom he recognizes as his lover. Antonio is initially somewhat hurt and annoyed because he thinks Christina has played a trick on him and compromised his loyalty to the King of Spain, who sent Antonio on this mission to Sweden to present Christina with an offer of marriage on his behalf. She makes it clear that her feelings for Antonio are genuine and that she regularly receives such offers from foreign royalty and has no intention of accepting the King's proposal, and she and Antonio patch things up.

When the scheming Count Magnus (Ian Keith), who had previously had some romantic liaisons with the Queen, rouses the people against the Spaniard, Christina is able to ease tensions for a time, but ultimately, she decides to name Karl Gustav as her successor and, in a move that shocks the entire court, abdicates the throne to be with Antonio. When she gets to the boat that is to take Antonio and her to Spain, she finds him gravely wounded from a sword duel with Magnus, which he lost. Antonio dies in her arms, but Christina resolves to proceed with the voyage. She envisions residing in the home Antonio described to her as sitting on white cliffs overlooking the sea.

####Rob Roy####
In Scotland, 1714, Robert Roy MacGregor is chief of Clan MacGregor. Although providing the Lowland gentry with protection against cattle rustling, he barely manages to feed his people. Hoping to alleviate their and his poverty, MacGregor borrows £1,000 from James Graham, Marquess of Montrose, to establish himself as a cattle raiser and trader.

Wanting to leave England to flee legal troubles, his anglicized aristocrat relative Archibald Cunningham is sent to stay with Montrose. Montrose makes money off Cunningham by making wagers on sword contests that Cunningham's haughty manner and effeminate bearing bring upon himself. However, Cunningham is supremely skilled with a sword. Cunningham learns about MacGregor's money deal from Montrose's factor Killearn, and murders MacGregor's friend, Alan McDonald, to steal the money. MacGregor requests time from Montrose to find McDonald and the money. Montrose offers to waive the debt if MacGregor will testify falsely that Montrose's rival John Campbell, 2nd Duke of Argyll is a Jacobite. MacGregor refuses and Montrose vows to imprison him in the tolbooth until the debt is repaid. After MacGregor flees, Montrose seizes MacGregor's land to cover the debt, declaring him an outlaw and ordering Cunningham to bring him in "broken, but not dead". Redcoats slaughter MacGregor's cattle, burn his croft, and Cunningham rapes his wife Mary.

Mary understands that Cunningham intends to flush her husband out of hiding and makes his brother, Alasdair, who arrives too late to save her, swear to conceal knowledge of the rape. MacGregor refuses to permit his clan to wage war on Montrose. Instead, he decrees, "The tenderest part of the marquess is his purse. We'll hurt him there. Thieve his cattle, steal his rents." Betty, a maidservant at Montrose's estate, has become pregnant with Cunningham's child. When Killearn tells Montrose, Betty is dismissed from service and rejected by Cunningham. Betty seeks refuge with the MacGregors, revealing that she overheard Killearn and Cunningham plot to steal the money. To build a case against Cunningham, MacGregor abducts Killearn and imprisons him. Mary promises Killearn that he will be spared if he testifies against Cunningham, but Killearn taunts her with her rape. Realizing that Mary is pregnant, he threatens to tell MacGregor that Cunningham may be the father if she does not release him, leading Mary and Alasdair to kill him.

Montrose tells Cunningham that he suspects who really stole the money but does not care. Cunningham and the redcoats burn the Clan's crofts. MacGregor refuses to take the bait, but Alasdair attempts to snipe Cunningham and hits a redcoat. The redcoats shoot both Alasdair and another Clan member, Coll. Alasdair finally tells MacGregor about Mary's rape. Taken prisoner, MacGregor accuses Cunningham of murder, robbery and rape. Cunningham confirms the charges, and beats and tortures Rob. The following morning, Montrose orders MacGregor hanged from a nearby bridge. MacGregor loops the rope binding his hands around Cunningham's throat and then jumps off the bridge. To save Cunningham, Montrose orders the rope cut.

Mary gains an audience with the Duke of Argyll and exposes Montrose's plan to frame him. Moved by MacGregor's integrity, he grants the family asylum at Glen Shira. MacGregor arrives, at first upset by Mary's unwillingness to inform him of her rape or her pregnancy but later willing to raise the child as his own. The Duke arranges a duel between MacGregor and Cunningham, wagering Montrose that if MacGregor lives, his debt will be forgiven and that if he dies, the Duke will pay his debt. Montrose agrees and Cunningham and MacGregor vow that no quarter will be asked or given. Armed with a rapier, Cunningham repeatedly wounds MacGregor, who appears to swiftly exhaust himself swinging a heavy broadsword. MacGregor seems defeated, but when Cunningham showboats to deliver a theatrical killing blow, MacGregor holds on to his enemy's sword-point with his left hand. As Cunningham struggles to free his blade, MacGregor delivers a fatal strike to Cunningham. Now free of debts and with his honor intact, he returns home to his wife and children.

####Rosaline####
Rosaline is a forward-thinking, ambitious young lady from the house of Capulet. She has been secretly seeing Romeo, a member of the Capulets' rivals, the Montagues, and promises to meet him at the Capulet masquerade ball. Rosaline misses the ball due to a meeting with a suitor, Dario Penza, that goes awry when they are trapped on a boat in a storm; meanwhile, Romeo becomes smitten with Rosaline's cousin Juliet. Rosaline follows Romeo and sees him wooing Juliet.

Lord and Lady Capulet call on Rosaline's father Adrian, bringing Tybalt and Juliet with them. Rosaline informs Juliet that she knows of the latter's liaison with Romeo and spends more time with her, hoping to make Juliet forget about Romeo. Rosaline writes letters to Romeo and becomes dismayed when he does not write back. She learns Romeo is still courting Juliet and helps her spurn him, but Juliet finds a necklace engraved with Romeo's and Rosaline's names and realizes her cousin's plan. Juliet confidently declares Romeo will not return to Rosaline.

Rosaline convinces her friend Count Paris to court Juliet to distract from his homosexuality; the Capulets heartily accept the suit, to Juliet's dismay. Rosaline finds a letter from Romeo to Juliet and realizes the two are about to elope. Rosaline and Dario infiltrate the Montague estate, intending to stop the wedding, but are caught by guards and escape on horseback. Dario tells Rosaline he is rejoining the navy. Rosaline realizes she did not truly love Romeo and sends his letters back to Juliet, but the message is intercepted by Tybalt. Romeo kills Tybalt in a duel; their respective fathers demand that Romeo and Juliet's marriage be annulled and declare war on each other.

Dario and Rosaline come to Juliet's room, offering to smuggle her and Romeo to safety, only to learn that Juliet has already carried out her plan to fake her death. Rosaline is assumed to have been at fault, but escapes with the help of her father. She arrives at Juliet's body to find Romeo still alive, as Dario had informed him of the plan. Rosaline tells Romeo to pretend to be dead, and scolds the arriving Montagues and Capulets for their feud. The families depart. Rosaline and Dario see Romeo and Juliet off at the docks before sharing a kiss.

In a mid-credits scene, Romeo and Juliet try to find common interests on the boat.

####Salome, Where She Danced####
The film opens in Virginia in 1865, shortly after General Lee's surrender at Appomattox Court House. A war correspondent, Jim Steed, exchanges comments with Count von Bohlen, an arrogant Prussian army officer serving as a military attaché during the American Civil War. A year later, Steed is in Vienna shortly before the outbreak of the Austro-Prussian War of 1866. There, he encounters a famous dancer, Anna Marie, whom he persuades to spy for him on von Bohlen, now a member of the Prussian general staff, who has become infatuated with her. The secret plans, rhough, which they manage to pass on to the Austrians, are unable to prevent the decisive Prussian victory.

Escaping Vienna just ahead of the conquering Prussian army, they journey to the United States, where they plan to organize a successful career for her in show business.  Stopping in a small western town to stage a show, they choose the exotic "Salome" for her debut, but it is robbed at gunpoint by local desparados. After Salome is able to recover their money from the bandits, the town elders decide by popular acclaim to rename the settlement "Salome Where She Danced". The bandit leader, Cleve Blunt, an ex-Confederate soldier, develops a romantic interest in Anna Marie and accompanies her on the journey westward.

After moving on to San Francisco, they persuade a wealthy Russian colonel to back her career. Just as she is set to make a success, the arrival of Count von Bohlen seeking revenge leads to a final confrontation.

####Shon the Piper####
The synopsis of the film was provided in "Moving Picture News" as: "The action is laid in the latter part of the eighteenth century while the story revolves about a young Scotch duke who, determined not to marry one seeking his money, searches for adventure in the Highlands, disguised as a piper. He meets, during his wanderings, Madge, the daughter of Donald Maclvor. They fall in love at first sight. Unaware of Shon's real identity, the old father refuses to sanction the match. He prefers to give his daughter to the wealthy Laird of the Isla. When the girl carries this news to her lover he tells her to "Be of good cheer, my bonny lass; I'll pipe them a tune of another class." The wedding day is fixed and the Laird leads his melancholy fiancée forth. Shon visits the feast in the garb of a harpist. He amuses the guests for a while and then, throwing off his disguise, escapes with Madge from a window. But previous to this, Shon has called his clan together and when speeding away to his mansion, they cover his retreat. What follows is a remarkably thrilling and fresh piece of business; a battle between two kilted Scotch clans. And then the title of the youth is discovered and all ends well."

####Solomon and Sheba####
The film's theme differs substantially from Biblical sources and is highly fictionalized, most notably in representing the Queen of Sheba as an ally of ancient Egypt in opposition to King Solomon of Israel, and in her having a love affair with Solomon.

Under the rule of King David, Israel is united and prosperous, although surrounded by enemies, including Egypt and its allies. The aging King favours Solomon to succeed him, but his elder brother Adonijah, a warrior, declares himself King. When David learns of this, he publicly announces Solomon to be his successor. Adonijah and Joab, his general, withdraw in rage, but Solomon later offers his brother the command of the army, knowing that Adonijah may use it against him.

Israel continues to prosper under Solomon's rule. The Queen of Sheba conspires with the Egyptian Pharaoh to undermine Solomon's rule by seducing him and introducing Sheban pagan worship into Jerusalem. Solomon is indeed bewitched by her, and the two begin living together under the pretense of forming an alliance between their two kingdoms. The king's reputation is damaged, but at the same time Sheba—who sees the king's wisdom in the Judgment of Solomon—begins to truly fall in love with him and regret her plotting. Things come to a head when Solomon recklessly allows a Sheban 'love festival' (in fact an orgy in celebration of a pagan god Almaqah) to be held within Israel. In an act of divine retribution, lightning from heaven destroys the Sheban altar and damages the newly built Temple in Jerusalem, and the land is beset with a deadly famine. Solomon is publicly rebuked by the people; the High Priest and Nathan the Prophet disown him.

Meanwhile, Adonijah, banished by his brother after an assassination attempt, goes and strikes a bargain with Pharaoh; given an army, he will conquer Israel for Egypt, in exchange for being placed on the throne as a kind of viceroy. The tiny army mustered by Solomon (who has been abandoned by his allied states) is quickly routed, and Adonijah presses on to Jerusalem and makes himself king. Meanwhile, Sheba, now a believer in the power of the God of Israel, prays for Solomon to be redeemed and restored to power as Nathan the Prophet overhears.

Pursued by the Egyptians, who were sent to finish him off, Solomon thereafter devises a plan. He lines up the remnants of his army on a hill, prompting the enemy to charge. The Israelites, who have arranged themselves to face east, then use their highly polished shields to reflect the light of the rising sun into the Egyptians' eyes. Blinded, the Egyptians are prevented from seeing the chasm in front of which the Israelites have positioned themselves, and the entire army rushes headlong over the edge and falls to its death.

Meanwhile, Adonijah, met with a tepid reaction to his coup, tries to stir up Jerusalem's population by ordering the stoning of Sheba. Midway through this hideous display, Solomon makes a triumphant return to the city. Adonijah attacks his brother, refusing to be deprived again of his throne, but is himself struck down. Joab, in retaliation, attempts to attack Solomon, but is struck down by Solomon's faithful retainers Josiah and Ahab. At Solomon's prayer Sheba is miraculously healed of her wounds; as he resumes his power, she returns to her homeland, now pregnant by Solomon.

####The Spanish Dancer####
As described in a film magazine review, Maritana, a beautiful Spanish young woman, is so full of life and fun that she is adored by the poor people among whom she lives and who dote on her dancing in the public squares. Through her daring, she and her sweetheart Don Cesar de Bazan become involved in the affairs of the Spanish court, and he with his life is to pay the supreme penalty. Using her feminine charms and her artful wiles, she not only saves him but wins a respected place for herself.

####The Story of Ruth####
The first part of the film revolves around Ruth, visualized as a pagan idolatress in her youth who serves as the spiritual teacher of a young Moabite girl, Tebah, who is being prepared to be sacrificed to Chemosh, a Moabite deity. Unhappy with the ritual crown created for Tebah, high-priestess Eleilat, along with Ruth, instruct Mahlon, the Judean artisan, to revamp the crown with jewels and glitter. Mahlon delivers the crown to Ruth at the temple, and he begins to question her about the existence of Chemosh. Ruth becomes doubtful of her religion and ultimately falls in love with Mahlon, sharing an interest in monotheism.

The non-biblical part ends with the sight of the Moabite girl being sacrificed, from which a distressed Ruth flees. The Moabites condemn Mahlon, his father Elimelech, and brother Chilion.  Chilion and Elimelech die in the prison, while Mahlon's punishment is to work at the quarries for the rest of his life.  Ruth comes to free Mahlon, but he is wounded as he flees the quarry.  He marries Ruth in a cave soon afterwards, and promptly dies.

The biblical storyline begins as Naomi (who was married to Elimelech), Orpah (who was married to Chilion), and Ruth are widowed. The second part is based more on the Book of Ruth, although a subplot is added, that of the Bethlehemites' initial disapproval of Ruth's pagan past and Naomi's closest kinsman rejecting Ruth as his wife.  As the next of kin after him, Boaz successfully obtains Ruth's hand in marriage.  As the film concludes, the final verses of the Book of Ruth are quoted.

####Suez####
"Paris in 1850 Louis Napoleon, nephew of the great Bonaparte, is president of the French Republic." During a tennis match in Paris between Ferdinand de Lesseps (Tyrone Power) and his friend Vicomte Rene de Latour (Joseph Schildkraut), the enthusiastic admiration of Countess Eugenie de Montijo (Loretta Young) for de Lesseps attracts the attention of Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte (Leon Ames). Bonaparte sees to it that both she and de Lesseps are invited to his reception. At the party, a fortuneteller predicts that Eugenie will have a troubled life, but also wear a crown, and that de Lesseps will dig a ditch. Entranced by Eugenie's beauty, Bonaparte arranges for his romantic rival to be assigned to a diplomatic post in Egypt, joining his father, Count Mathieu de Lesseps (Henry Stephenson), the Consul-General. De Lesseps impulsively asks Eugenie to marry him immediately, but she turns him down.

In Egypt, de Lesseps befriends two people who will have a great influence on his life: Toni Pellerin (Annabella), a tomboy being raised by her grandfather, French Sergeant Pellerin (Sig Rumann); and Prince Said (J. Edward Bromberg), the indolent heir of his father, Mohammed Ali (Maurice Moskovitch), the Viceroy (ruler) of Egypt. Toni makes it clear that she has fallen in love with him, but de Lesseps still pines for Eugenie. Count de Lesseps leaves for France, leaving his son to take his place.

One day, after a brief rainstorm in the desert, de Lesseps sees the water draining into the sea and comes up with the idea for the Suez Canal. He departs for Paris to raise the necessary funding; Toni goes along as well. He presents his proposal to Bonaparte, but is rejected. He is also disheartened to learn that Eugenie is now very close to Bonaparte.

France is on the verge of civil war between Bonaparte and the French Assembly, led by Count de Lesseps and others. Eugenie persuades Ferdinand de Lesseps to pass along Bonaparte's proposal asking the Assembly to disband, giving Bonaparte's promise to reconvene it once the civil unrest has been defused. Despite their misgivings, the members of the Assembly agree, only to be betrayed and arrested. Bonaparte assumes the throne of the revived French Empire, just as Count de Lesseps had feared. The news causes the count to suffer a fatal stroke. Ferdinand de Lesseps is outraged, but Toni persuades him to do nothing. In return for de Lesseps' help, Bonaparte (now Emperor Napoleon III), withdraws his objections to the canal, and construction commences under de Lesseps' direction.

The building of the canal progresses despite Turkish sabotage. However, Napoleon unexpectedly withdraws his support out of political necessity; he needs to appease Great Britain, and the British Prime Minister (George Zucco) is firmly opposed to the project. Prince Said bankrupts himself to keep the venture going, but it is not enough. De Lesseps goes to England to plead his case. The Prime Minister is unmoved, but the leader of the opposition, Benjamin Disraeli (Miles Mander), is enthusiastic about the project. Disraeli tells him to return to Egypt and pray that Disraeli wins the upcoming general election. He does, and funding is assured.

As the canal nears completion, an enormous sandstorm threatens everything. When de Lesseps is knocked unconscious by flying debris, Toni rescues him by tying him to a wooden post, but is herself swept away and killed. De Lesseps finishes the canal and is honored by Eugenie, now Empress of France after her marriage to Napoleon III.

####A Tale of Two Cities####
The film opens with a portion of the famous introduction to the novel: “ It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us... In short, it was a period very like the present...” Lucie Manette (Elizabeth Allan) and her servant and companion Miss Pross (Edna May Oliver) are informed by elderly banker Mr. Jarvis Lorry (Claude Gillingwater) that her father, Dr. Alexandre Mannette (Henry B. Walthall) is not dead, but has been a prisoner in the Bastille for eighteen years before finally being rescued. She travels with Mr. Lorry to Paris to take her father to her home in England. Dr. Manette has been cared for by a former servant, Ernest De Farge (Mitchell Lewis), and his wife (Blanche Yurka) who own a wine shop in Paris. The old man's mind has given way during his long ordeal, but Lucie's tender care begins to restore his sanity.

On the return trip across the English Channel, Lucie meets Charles Darnay (Donald Woods), a French aristocrat who, unlike his uncle, the Marquis St. Evremonde (Basil Rathbone), is sympathetic to the plight of the oppressed and impoverished French masses. He has denounced his uncle, relinquished his title, changed his name and is going to England to begin a new life. The marquis has Darnay framed for treason, but he is defended by barrister C.J. Stryver (Reginald Owen) and his highly proficient but cynical colleague Sydney Carton (Ronald Colman). Carton goes drinking with Barsad (Walter Catlett), the main prosecution witness and tricks him into admitting that he framed Darnay. When Barsad is called to testify, he is horrified to discover that Carton is a member of the defense. He recants his testimony to save himself, and Darnay is acquitted.

Following the trial, Carton is thanked by Lucie. He quickly falls in love with her. Darnay confesses to Dr. Manette he is the nephew of the Marquis St. Evremonde; Manette forgives him, but reserves the right to tell Lucie himself. On their way to church, Lucie meets Carton and invites him to join them and he accepts. Afterwards, she invites him into their home to celebrate Christmas, but he declines because he has been drinking. Lucie and Carton eventually become close friends. Carton has hopes that Lucie will requite his love, but one day she tells him that she is engaged to Darnay.

Lucie and Darnay marry and have a daughter, also named Lucie, who is very fond of Carton. By this time, the French Revolution is beginning. Charles' uncle, the Marquis St. Evremond is one of its first victims, stabbed in his sleep by a man whose child had been fatally run down by his coach. The long-suffering peasants vent their fury on the aristocrats, condemning scores daily to Madame Guillotine. Darnay is tricked into returning to Paris and is arrested. Lucie and Dr. Manette travel to Paris to save Darnay. Manette pleads for mercy for his son-in-law, but Madame De Farge, seeking revenge against all the Evremondes, convinces the tribunal to sentence Darnay to death, using a letter Dr. Manette wrote while in prison, cursing and denouncing the entire Evremonde family.

Upon learning of Darnay's imprisonment, Carton travels to Paris to comfort Lucie. Carton consults Mr. Lorry and tells him of his plan to rescue Darnay. Carton discovers Barsad is also in Paris and works as a spy in the prisons. Carton overcomes Barsad's reluctance to help him with his scheme to rescue Darnay by threatening to reveal that Barsad had been a spy for the Marquis St. Evremonde. Barsad takes Carton to visit Darnay in his cell; Carton renders Darnay unconscious with ether, switches clothes with him, and finishes the letter Darnay has been writing to Lucie and puts it in Darnay's pocket. Darnay is carried out of the cell without anyone noticing the switch.

While Lucie prepares to return to England, Madame De Farge goes to provoke her into denouncing the Republic, but she is intercepted by Miss Pross inside the now-vacated apartment. Pross knows why Madame De Farge has come and is determined to stop her. The two women fight and De Farge pulls out a pistol, but in the ensuing struggle, Pross kills her.
Darnay, Lucie, little Lucie, Lorry and Pross all escape safely.

While awaiting execution, a condemned, innocent seamstress (Isabel Jewell) who was sentenced at the same time as Darnay, notices Carton has assumed his identity. She draws comfort from his bravery and sacrifice as they ride together to the guillotine. As Carton stands at the foot of the guillotine, drums roll and then fade away as the camera pans up past the guillotine to the city and the sky above. His voice is heard saying, "It's a far, far better thing I do than I have ever done. It's a far, far better rest I go to than I have ever known."

####Titanic####
In 1996, aboard the research vessel "Akademik Mstislav Keldysh", Brock Lovett and his team search the wreck of RMS "Titanic". They recover a safe they hope contains a necklace with a large diamond known as the Heart of the Ocean. Instead, they find only a drawing of a young nude woman wearing the necklace. The sketch is dated April 14, 1912, the same day the "Titanic" struck the iceberg that caused it to sink.refn|Although the "Titanic" hit the iceberg on April 14, it did not sink until the early hours of April 15.|group = Note  After viewing a television news story about the discovery, centenarian Rose Dawson Calvert contacts Lovett, identifying herself as the woman in the drawing. Hoping she can help locate the necklace, Lovett brings Rose aboard "Keldysh", where she recounts her experiences as a "Titanic" passenger.

In 1912 Southampton, 17-year-old Rose DeWitt Bukater, her wealthy fiancé Caledon "Cal" Hockley, and Rose's widowed mother Ruth, board the "Titanic". Ruth emphasizes that Rose's marrying Cal will resolve the family's financial problems and maintain their upper-class status. Meanwhile, Jack Dawson, a poor young artist, wins a third-class "Titanic" ticket in a poker game. After setting sail, Rose, distraught over her loveless engagement, climbs over the stern railing, intending to commit suicide. Jack coaxes her back onto the deck and they develop a friendship. When Cal and Ruth strongly object, Rose rejects Jack's attentions, but returns to him after realizing she has fallen in love.

Rose brings Jack to her state room and requests he draw her nude, wearing only the Heart of the Ocean. They later evade Cal's servant, Lovejoy, and have sex in a Renault Towncar inside the cargo hold. On the forward deck, they witness the ship's collision with an iceberg and overhear its officers discussing its seriousness. Cal discovers Jack's sketch and an insulting note from Rose in his safe, along with the necklace. When Jack and Rose return to warn the others about the collision, Cal has Lovejoy slip the necklace into Jack's pocket to frame him for theft. Jack is confined in the master-at-arms' office. Cal puts the necklace into his own overcoat pocket.

With the ship sinking, the crew prioritize women and children for evacuation. Rose finds and frees Jack, and they make it back to the deck, where Cal and Jack urge Rose to board a lifeboat. Intending to save himself, Cal lies that he will get Jack safely off the ship and wraps his overcoat around Rose. As her lifeboat is lowered, Rose, unable to abandon Jack, jumps back onto the ship. Cal grabs Lovejoy's pistol and chases Jack and Rose, but they escape; Cal realizes the necklace is still in the coat he gave Rose. He later poses as a lost child's father to get onboard a lifeboat.

Jack and Rose return to the deck. The ship's stern is rising as the flooded bow sinks; the two desperately cling to the stern rail. The upended ship breaks in half and the bow section sinks. The remaining stern slams back onto the ocean, then upends again before it, too, sinks. In the freezing water, Jack helps Rose onto a wood transom panel among the debris, buoyant enough only for one person, and makes her promise to survive. Jack dies of hypothermia, but Rose is among six people saved by the one returning lifeboat.

RMS|Carpathia rescues the survivors. Rose avoids Cal and her mother by hiding among the steerage passengers and giving her name as Rose Dawson. Still wearing Cal's overcoat, she discovers the necklace tucked inside the pocket. In the present, Rose says she later heard that Cal committed suicide after losing his fortune in the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Lovett abandons his search after hearing Rose's story. Alone on the stern of "Keldysh", Rose takes the Heart of the Ocean, which has been in her possession all along, and drops it into the sea over the wreck site. While she is seemingly asleep in her bed, her photos on the dresser depict a life of freedom and adventure inspired by her early conversations with Jack. A young Rose reunites with Jack at the "Titanic"'s Grand Staircase, applauded by those who died that night.

####Tulip Fever####
The orphan Sophia is cared for in a convent in the Dutch Republic just before the 17th century tulip mania. A marriage proposal from the far-older spice merchant Cornelis enables her to leave, with the generous dowry allowing her sisters to emigrate to New Amsterdam, where they have an aunt awaiting them, their only surviving relative.

Three years later, Sophia is unhappy in the marriage, since Cornelis seems to be concerned only with conceiving an heir, to no avail thus far. Cornelis believes this misfortune to have something to do with a mistake he made in the past, with his previous wife: she miscarried their first child and when Cornelis asked the doctor to save the second child over the wife, he feels that God punished him by taking both his wife and his child.

Cornelis hires a painter so that he may be remembered as having a beautiful young wife, should he have no heir to continue his legacy. Sophia agrees, but as soon as the young painter Jan arrives to paint the couple, he and Sophia fall in love. Jan sends a note to Sophia, asking her to send him a vase of tulips. She shows up at his door with the tulips, and they consummate their love.

Meanwhile, Sophia's friend, the housemaid Maria, is in a courtship with the neighborhood fishmonger, Willem. Willem is speculating in the tulip market, and is doing quite well and, expecting to be independently prosperous and able to marry Maria, he sells his business to another fishmonger. Sophia borrows Maria's cloak and heads to a rendezvous with Jan. Willem, seeing Sophia in the cloak, mistakes her for Maria, and follows her to her rendezvous. Crushed by what he thinks is Maria's infidelity, he goes to a pub to drown his sorrows. There a prostitute robs him of the money he has acquired in the tulip market. When he tries to retrieve the money, he is beaten by her brother and a mob of his friends and forcibly pressed into the Dutch Navy.

Jan plots to escape to the new world with Sophia, after having success of his own in the tulip market. He learns that the nuns at St. Ursula (the convent Sophia came from) raise tulips in their gardens. Jan attempts to steal some of the bulbs but is knocked out by the abbess of St. Ursula. When he regains consciousness, he apologizes and the abbess gives him the bulbs Willem had bought before he was abducted into the navy.

Maria realizes that she is pregnant with Willem's child. With Willem gone, the baby will be born out of wedlock. Maria explains her condition to Sophia and threatens to reveal Sophia's affair to Cornelis if she disclosed to Cornelis the pregnancy. Sophia conspires with Maria to pass off the pregnancy as her own: when the baby is born, Sophia will pretend to die in childbirth so she can leave with Jan and Maria can raise the child as her own with Cornelis.

After Maria gives birth to a daughter and Sophia pretends to die, Cornelis is grief stricken at the loss of his wife. Sophia, under her shroud, weeps as she realizes that she has deeply hurt Cornelis with her deceit, but eventually realizes that it is too late to undo what she has done. Ashamed of herself, Sophia runs away and Jan is unable to find her.

Willem, returning after his stint in the navy in Africa, visits Maria at Cornelis's house. Maria is furious at him, but they soon reconcile once he discovers he was not betrayed. Cornelis overhears their loud quarreling and the revelation of the conspiracy among Maria, Sophia, and Jan. Cornelis makes his peace with the truth, and departs for the Dutch East Indies, where he finds love and makes a family, but only after leaving the house to Maria, Willem, and the baby girl that he loved as his own.

Eight years later, the abbess of St. Ursula visits Jan and views his artwork of Sophia. She praises him for his talent, and commissions him to paint a mural in the church. When Jan looks down from the scaffold, he sees Sophia, who has joined the convent, and they share tender smiles.

####A United Kingdom####
The film is based on the true story of the heir to the throne of Bechuanaland, Seretse Khama of the Bamangwato people, who studied law in London immediately after World War II. There he meets an Englishwoman, Ruth Williams, whom he eventually marries, despite the protests of both their families and opposition from the British government, which is concerned about relations with South Africa and the stability of the entire region of southern Africa. The National Party government in South Africa fears that the marriage of a black king to a white woman in neighboring Bechuanaland will inspire unrest, as it was in the process of making such a marriage illegal, and demands that the British government prevents the marriage, as do the governments of South West Africa and Rhodesia.

Khama's uncle, the Regent, also asks Khama to end his marriage and instead marry a Bamangwato princess, which Khama rejects. The British administrators use the dispute to argue that the marriage is causing unrest. Seretse discovers that the British have allowed a US mining corporation to prospect for precious stones, and is eager to make sure that, if anything is found, the exploitation of the country's resources should solely be done by the people of Bechuanaland.

Khama wants his people's support and wins their backing, upon which the British government decides to exile him. Meanwhile, Ruth gives birth to their baby and becomes accepted by the local people by "walking the road with them". When the British want to replace the king with an administrator, the tribe refuses to convene the necessary meeting. The British prime minister, Clement Attlee, tells backbencher Tony Benn that Britain needs South Africa's gold and destroying the Khamas' marriage is a price worth paying. Meanwhile, diamonds are found in Bechuanaland and Khama ensures the British government acknowledges their sovereign ownership by the Bechuana people.

Winston Churchill promises, if elected, to lift Khama's exile term of five years, but instead makes it permanent. However, powerful people in London and the US government support Khama's case. Meanwhile, apartheid develops in South Africa and begins to overshadow Bechuanaland as well. Eventually, with the help of pressure from local people, he is allowed to return to Bechuanaland and negotiates its independence from the British. Khama shows his uncle a leaked British government document showing he is qualified to be king, and that British government hostility is based only on opposition from South Africa. A postscript reveals that Khama was elected as the first president of present-day Botswana, that their son becomes the country's fourth elected president in 2008 and that Ruth and Khama are buried together on a hilltop overlooking Serowe village, where they had lived for the remainder of their lives.

####Vanity Fair####
In 1802 UK, Becky Sharp, orphaned daughter of a poor painter, has finished her studies and offered to be governess to Sir Pitt Crawley's daughters. Before starting, she travels to London with her close friend Amelia Sedley and family. While there she begins a campaign to charm Amelia's awkward and overweight brother "Jos" Sedley, a wealthy trader living in India. Smitten with Becky, he almost proposes, but is dissuaded by Amelia's snobbish fiancé George Osborne, reminding him that Becky has no dowry.

Not finding a rich husband, Becky takes up her post. Horrified by the house and her employer Sir Pitt, she diligently teaches his daughters and prepares the house for his half-sister Miss Crawley. His youngest son, Rawdon Crawley, an army captain, comes with them and immediately fancies Becky. She manages to secure a post with ill-tempered Miss Crawley.

Meanwhile, Amelia's prospective father-in-law, Mr. Osborne, is trying to arrange a more advantageous marriage for his son George. When George refuses to consider her, Mr. Osborne bankrupts Mr. Sedley, forcing George to break his engagement to Amelia. She now lives in squalor with her family, but hopeful he will come for her, believing the gift of a piano from George's friend Dobbin is from George himself.

Rawdon Crawley and Becky marry secretly, but Miss Crawley soon finds out expelling her from her house and disinheriting Rawdon. George Osborne marries Amelia, rebelling against his father, and is soon after deployed with Dobbin and Rawdon to Belgium, as Napoleon escaped Elba and returned to France. Becky and Amelia accompany their husbands. The newly-wedded Osborne tires of Amelia, and hits on Becky. The ball they are attending is interrupted by an announcement that Napoleon has attacked, and they must march in three hours. Before leaving, Rawdon gives Becky all he's won at cards. The next day, as she tries to flee the city, she sees Amelia in the mob and leaves her carriage to be with her in Brussels, waiting out the battle.

In the ensuing Battle of Waterloo, George is killed and Rawdon survives. Amelia bears his son, also named George. Mr. Osborne refuses to acknowledge his grandson, so Amelia returns to live in poverty with her parents. Now-Major William Dobbin, young George's godfather, continues to show his love for the widowed Amelia by small kindnesses. She is too in love with George's memory to return Dobbin's affections. Saddened, he transfers to an army post in India. Meanwhile, Becky's son is also named after his father.

Several years pass. Rawdon has been passed over for inheritance by both his aunt and father, and they are sinking deep into debt. Amelia struggles to raise her son and reluctantly gives him up to be raised by his grandfather Mr. Osborne, for a fine education and lifestyle. Bailiffs arrive to repossess the Crawleys' furniture, but Becky is saved by their neighbor Lord Steyne, who she remembers from the past as a keen buyer of her father's paintings. He becomes her patron, giving her money and introducing her into London high society.

On the night of her triumphant presentation to King George IV, Becky receives word that Rawdon has been arrested and thrown into debtors' prison. Lord Steyne insists she spend the night with him in return for the services he has rendered her, and Rawdon, after being bailed out by his sister-in-law, walks in on Steyne forcing himself upon Becky. He throws him out, but realizes Becky has been taking money for months in secret without sharing with him. He leaves her, entrusting the care of their son to his older brother, the new Sir Pitt and his wife.

Twelve years later, Becky is a card dealer at a casino in Baden-Baden, Germany. Rawdon died from malaria soon after leaving her, while posted to a tropical island by Lord Steyne. She comes across Amelia's grown son George Jr., who invites her to tea with his mother. Mr. Osborne finally accepted Amelia, leaving her and George Jr. a large inheritance. Becky confronts Amelia over her obsession with the late George, showing her a love note from him to her many years earlier. She urges Amelia to love Dobbin, who has been loyal for many years. Although at first angered, Amelia realizes her mistake and declares her love to Dobbin.

Alone again in the casino, Becky meets Jos Sedley, who has come to Germany after Amelia told him Becky was there. He invites her to come and live in India with him, and she delightedly accepts. They depart to make a new life for themselves.

####The Viking####
Lord Alwin (LeRoy Mason), Earl of Northumbria, is captured in a Viking raid and taken to Norway as a slave. There he is bought by Helga (Pauline Starke), an "orphan of noble blood" under the guardianship of Leif Ericsson (Donald Crisp). He proves a troublesome slave, and Leif's sailing master, Egil the Black (Harry Woods), prepares to kill him for his insolence, but Helga stops him. When Alwin challenges Egil to a sword fight, Leif is impressed by his courage and permits it. Alwin manages to break Egil's sword, but spares him. Helga then gives Alwin to Leif.

Leif, with the support of King Olaf (Roy Stewart), the first Christian king of Norway, sets out to search for lands beyond Greenland, which was discovered by his pagan father, Eric the Red (Anders Randolf). Back in Greenland, Eric kills one of his men after he discovers that the man is a Christian. When Leif stops there to pick up supplies, Eric gives his blessing for his marriage to Helga (unbeknownst to her). However, after it is revealed that Leif is himself a Christian, Eric disowns him and refuses to give him any supplies. Fighting breaks out after Leif instructs Alwin to take the supplies anyway. In the confusion, Helga stows away on Leif's ship.

Leif has no choice but to take her along. During the voyage, she and Alwin confess their love for each other. Unaware of this, Leif informs her that he will marry her on the "second change of the moon". Egil, in love with Helga himself, foments a mutiny among the crew, who fear sailing off the edge of the world. When Egil prepares to stab Leif in the back during the wedding ceremony, Alwin leaps in the way and is wounded. Leif kills Egil, but is enraged when Helga reveals that she loves Alwin. He raises his sword to kill the unconscious Alwin, but his Christian faith stops him. Just then, land is sighted, and the mutiny dissolves.

Leif steps ashore bearing a makeshift cross. He has a stone tower built and makes friends with the natives. When Leif leaves for home, Alwin, Helga and a few others remain behind. A final, 'modern day,' scene, with "God Bless America" sung in the background, states that the stone tower still stands in Newport, Rhode Island.

####When a Man Loves####
Chevalier Fabien des Grieux, who has forsworn the world for the church, falls passionately in love with young Manon Lescaut when he encounters her en route to a convent with her brother André. The lustful Comte Guillot de Morfontaine offers André a tempting sum for Manon, and learning of their bargain, Fabien takes her to Paris, where they spend an idyllic week in a garret. André finds her, persuades her to leave Fabien, and tries to force her into an alliance with Morfontaine—then rescues Manon from the advances of a brutal Apache. Fabien, crushed to believe that Manon has become Morfontaine's mistress, is about to take his vows but is deterred by her love for him. King Louis sees Manon in Richelieu's drawing room and wins her. The rejected Morfontaine orders her arrest and deportation, but he is killed by Fabien, who joins Manon on a convict ship bound for America. After inciting the convicts to mutiny, he escapes with her in a small boat. He points to the horizon and declares “Yonder—America! For us freedom—And everlasting love!”

####The Wings of the Dove####
In 1910 London, Kate Croy (Helena Bonham Carter) lives under the careful watch of her domineering Aunt Maude (Charlotte Rampling). The wealthy Maude has taken the penniless Kate in as her ward, intending to marry her to a rich man and save her from the fate which befell her recently deceased mother when she married Kate's own dissolute father, Lionel (Michael Gambon). Lord Mark (Alex Jennings), a sophisticated aristocrat with a large estate, begins to court Kate with Maude's approval. However, Kate is secretly in love with a young muckraking journalist named Merton Densher (Linus Roache), whom her aunt has forbidden her from pursuing a relationship with because of his humble circumstances. Nonetheless, she has continued to meet with Merton in secret, though he is growing increasingly impatient for her to leave her aunt and marry him.

Aunt Maude confronts Kate about her continuing association with Merton and threatens to withdraw her financial support from Kate and her father. Kate reluctantly breaks with Merton and refuses to meet with him anymore. A few months later, at a dinner party given by her aunt, Kate is introduced to the wealthy American orphan and heiress Milly Theale (Allison Elliot), who is on an extended trip through Europe with her travelling companion Susan Stringham (Elizabeth McGovern). The cynical Kate is captivated by Milly's beauty, vivaciousness and humour, and the two form a strong friendship. Kate and Merton reconcile and resume their secret meetings; one day they run into Milly, and Kate introduces Merton as a family friend. Soon after, Milly invites Kate to accompany her and Susan to Venice.

Before leaving, Lord Mark secretly reveals to Kate that Milly is terminally ill and that although he desires Kate he needs to marry Milly and her fortune to avoid losing his estates. Aware that Milly is indifferent to Lord Mark but is smitten with Merton, Kate invites Merton to Venice and persuades him to show Milly affection in an effort to seduce her. Kate expects that the orphaned and lonely Milly will leave him her fortune after her death.

During Kate's, Milly's, and Merton's excursions through Venice, Kate gradually becomes jealous of Milly's attraction to Merton, so much so that she lures him away one night to have sex. Milly confronts her the next morning, though Kate denies that Merton is her lover. She realises that, if her scheme is to succeed, she must leave Venice without warning Merton. On their own in Venice, Merton's affection for Milly grows and the two form a strong bond, even as her condition worsens. One day Merton spots Lord Mark at a cafe; alarmed, he goes to visit Milly but is denied entry. Susan visits him and Merton realises that Kate has revealed their secret to Lord Mark to sabotage the whole scheme, knowing that Mark would tell Milly as revenge for her rejecting him. Nonetheless, Milly agrees to see Merton and the two share an intimate moment where she forgives him and says that she still loves both him and Kate, despite their actions. A few days later, Milly dies and Merton and Susan attend her funeral.

After Merton returns to London, Kate comes to Merton's flat. She asks why he has not come to see her in the weeks he has been back and finds a letter from Milly's lawyers, informing Merton that Milly did indeed bequeath a sizable portion of her estate to him. Merton tells Kate that he will not take the money, and she must marry him without it if they are to be together. They make love and afterwards Kate agrees, with the condition he tells her that he is not still in love with his memory of Milly. He cannot, and Kate leaves him for good, knowing that her conniving has backfired. Merton returns alone to Venice, while in the background we hear Milly's voice repeating her confident assertion that Merton will be coming into his own, and sooner than he thinks.

####The Woman God Forgot####
The "Exhibitors Herald", a trade magazine for independent cinemas, provides a description of the film. Moctezuma (Hatton), the Aztec king, resents the intrusion of the Spanish who have come to convert the Aztecs to Christianity. But Tecza (Farrar), daughter of the king, loves Alvarado (Reid), one of the Spanish captains, and she allows the Spanish soldiers to enter the palace. After a terrific battle, she is the only surviving Aztec and the Spanish allow her to depart in peace. Alvarado then comes wooing the last of the Aztecs and wins her.

####Yankee Pasha####
Fur trapper Jason Starbuck (Jeff Chandler) arrives in Salem, Massachusetts in 1800. A general store owner challenges him to a horse race, but his rider's fiancée, Roxana Reil, gives a helpful tip to Starbuck on how to win the race.

A romantic attraction develops and Roxana's father advises her not to marry a man she doesn't love. Roxana sets sail for France, however, and her boat is attacked by pirates, who kill her father and take Roxana captive in Morocco, making her a slave.

Starbuck pursues her. He is introduced by a U.S. consul to the sultan, who is impressed with Starbuck's rifle marksmanship. He is offered a position with the sultan's infantry and given a slave of his own, Lilith.

Roxana has been sold to Omar Id-Din, who could be plotting against the sultan. Starbuck challenges Omar to a duel, with the winner acquiring the other's rifle and slave. Starbuck wins and intends to return home with Roxana, but they are betrayed by the jealous Lilith, who fights Roxana and tells Omar of their plans.

Starbuck is taken prisoner. Lilith has a change of heart, however, and changes clothes with Roxana to fool the guards. With the help of Hassan Sendar, one of the sultan's soldiers, they help rescue Starbuck, who leads the escape of other prisoners. He throws Omar from a roof. He and Roxana are free, and, as a reward, Hassan is given a new slave, Lilith.

Jeff Chandler recorded the song "I Should Care" on Brunswick Records from the film.

####Yentl####
Yentl Mendel is a woman living in an Ashkenazi shtetl named Pechev in Poland in 1904. Yentl's father, Rebbe Mendel (Nehemiah Persoff), secretly instructs her in the Talmud despite the proscription of such study by women according to the custom of her community. Yentl refuses to be married off to a man.

After the death of her father, Yentl decides to cut her hair short, dress like a man, take her late brother's name, Anshel, and enter a Yeshiva, a Jewish religious school in Bychawa. There she befriends a fellow student, Avigdor (Mandy Patinkin), and meets his fiancée, Hadass (Amy Irving). Upon discovering that Avigdor lied about his brother's death (a suicide, not consumption as Avigdor claimed), Hadass' family cancels the wedding over fears that Avigdor's family is tainted with insanity. Hadass' parents decide that she should marry Anshel instead, and Avigdor encourages Anshel to go ahead with the marriage, so Hadass can marry someone she knows rather than have a stranger for a husband. Anshel marries Hadass—to avoid Avigdor fleeing town—but, their marriage remains unconsummated, Anshel claiming it is a sin for a woman to give herself to a man while she loves another. Anshel starts to teach Hadass the Talmud. Meanwhile, Hadass develops romantic feelings for Yentl (as Anshel), while Yentl herself is falling in love with Avigdor.

Anshel leaves for a trip to the city with Avigdor that will take him away from home for a few days. In their lodging in the city, Anshel finally reveals his true identity to Avigdor. At first, Avigdor does not believe his friend is a woman, but Yentl proves her womanhood by showing him her breasts. When a confused Avigdor asks her why she didn't tell him, Yentl breaks down in his arms, showing she has revealed her real self to him out of love. Avigdor is stunned, but, after a moment, reciprocates the feeling  and remarks how beautiful Yentl's features are. The two kiss, but, Avigdor breaks away suddenly, remembering Hadass. Yentl assures him their marriage is not valid. Avigdor suggests he and Yentl elope. Yentl realizes that she will not be able to continue her studies if she marries Avigdor, and that she wants more from life than to be a wife. Yentl and Avigdor part ways, knowing they will always care for each other. It is implied that Hadass and Anshel's marriage is annulled, as it was never consummated. Avigdor returns to marry Hadass. In the following scene, the two are successfully reunited and reading a letter from Yentl, learning that she's going to a new place and will love them both always. Yentl leaves Europe on a boat bound for the United States, where she hopes to lead a life with more freedom. With a smile on her face, Yentl finishes her story by singing: "Papa, watch me fly."

####After Midnight####
After a ten year relationship, Hank's girlfriend leaves him. He spends his days in melancholy, but a terrible creature begins to come to his house at nights and scratches his door with obviously unkind intentions. Hank tries to confront the monster, simultaneously recalling a collapsed relationship and trying to understand what went wrong with it.

####Birdemic: Shock and Terror####
Rod is a young software salesman living a successful life in Silicon Valley. He meets up with old classmate and aspiring fashion model Nathalie and begins dating her. Things go well for the couple, with Rod receiving a large bonus that he uses to start his own business, while Nathalie is chosen as a Victoria's Secret model. As they grow closer, the couple remains oblivious to signs of something going wrong around them, such as unexplained wildfires and the carcasses of diseased birds turning up on beaches.

After having a romantic time and kissing in a motel, Rod and Nathalie wake up to find that their town is under attack from eagles and vultures. The birds spit acid and explode into flames upon striking the ground (having become mutated and toxic due to global warming). Rod and Nathalie escape from the motel by joining up with an ex-Marine named Ramsey and his girlfriend Becky. As they leave town, they rescue two young children, Susan and Tony, whose parents have been killed by the birds.

The group proceeds to drive from one town to the next, fending off more bird attacks along the way and briefly meeting a scientist named Dr. Jones studying the phenomenon. Becky is killed by the birds. Ramsey tries to save a busload of tourists. As they leave the bus, Ramsey and the tourists are killed by acid that is dropped by the birds. Nathalie stops Rod from attempting to rescue Ramsey because she fears the birds will kill him, too.

Rod, Nathalie, and the kids continue to flee from the birds, driving into a forest where they briefly meet a "tree hugger" named Tom Hill, who talks to them about the dangers of global warming. After escaping a forest fire, the quartet ultimately settles on a small beach, where Rod fishes for dinner. As they prepare to eat, they are attacked by the birds, but then doves appear and all the birds leave in peace. The film ends as Rod, Nathalie and the kids watch the birds fly off into the horizon.

####Christine####
A red and white 1958 Plymouth Fury is built on the assembly line. The car injures one worker by slamming its hood shut on his hand; when another one sits in the driver's seat and flicks cigar ashes onto the upholstery, he is subsequently found dead. Twenty years later, nerdy teenager Arnold "Arnie" Cunningham buys the now-decrepit Fury over the objections of his friend, Dennis Guilder. At school, Arnie is bullied by Buddy Repperton and his gang, and Buddy is expelled after threatening Arnie with a switchblade. Defying his parents, Arnie begins to restore the Fury (named "Christine" by its previous owner) at a garage/junkyard owned by Will Darnell. Arnie's appearance and personality begin to change as he works; he sheds his glasses, dresses better, and develops an air of cocky arrogance. His obsession with Christine puts a strain on his relationship with his parents and his friendship with Dennis.

Dennis learns from the seller that the Fury's previous owner was also obsessed with Christine, that his daughter choked to death in the car, and that he and his wife both committed suicide in it. An attractive new student, Leigh Cabot, attends one of Dennis' football games with Arnie; Dennis sees them together and notes that Christine is now fully restored. Distracted, he suffers a severe injury that puts him in the hospital and ends his high school football career. Arnie and Leigh begin a relationship, but Leigh becomes uncomfortable sitting in Christine as the two watch a drive-in movie. The car's radio turns on by itself as Leigh begins to choke on her food, and Arnie finds the doors locked. Leigh eventually frees herself, and another patron administers the Heimlich maneuver to save her life.

Buddy and his gang vandalize Christine in retaliation for Buddy's expulsion. Arnie is so distraught that he angrily breaks up with Leigh when she tries to console him. Once he returns Christine to the garage, he is surprised to see it gradually and completely repair itself. Christine chases down one member of Buddy's gang that evening and kills him, repairing itself again afterward. Police detective Rudy Junkins questions Arnie about the death, but lets him go once Arnie provides an alibi. Later, Christine targets the rest of the gang, killing two members at a gas station and then fatally running Buddy down. The badly damaged car returns to Darnell's garage on its own; when he sits in the driver's seat, Christine kills him by pushing it forward to crush him against the steering wheel. By the time the police find the body, Christine is once more in like-new condition. Junkins again questions Arnie, who becomes angry and gives an alibi.

Leigh asks for Dennis' help to destroy Christine and save Arnie. They plan to lure Christine to the garage and smash it with a bulldozer, but Christine surprises them by emerging from a pile of scrap metal. Leigh flees while Dennis battles Christine, now being driven by Arnie; in an attempt to run Leigh down, Christine crashes into Darnell's office and Arnie is thrown through the windshield, fatally impaling himself on broken glass. Christine continues to attack, repairing itself more quickly than before, until Dennis and Leigh flatten it with the bulldozer.

The next day, Dennis, Leigh, and Junkins watch as the remains of Christine are crushed at the junkyard. Junkins congratulates the teens for stopping Christine, but they regret not being able to save Arnie. The sound of a 1950s rock and roll song spooks them, but it proves to be coming from a boombox carried by a junkyard worker. Christine's front grill twitches slightly.

####Halloween Ends####
On Halloween night in 2019, 21-year-old Corey Cunningham babysits a young boy named Jeremy, who pulls a prank on him by locking him inside the attic. Just as Jeremy's parents come home, Corey kicks the door open and accidentally knocks Jeremy over a staircase railing to his death. Corey is accused of intentionally killing Jeremy but is cleared of manslaughter.

Three years later, the town of Haddonfield, Illinois, is still reeling from the aftermath of Michael Myers's latest killing spree in 2018,efn|As depicted in both "Halloween" (2018) and "Halloween Kills" (2021) while Michael has vanished. Laurie Strode is writing a memoir, having bought a new house and living with her granddaughter Allyson, who is now a nurse. Meanwhile, Corey is working at his stepfather's salvage yard. On his way home one day, he is accosted by high school bullies and injures himself in the process. An observing Laurie brings him to the doctor's office where Allyson works. Allyson and Corey develop a relationship and later attend a Halloween party, where Corey is confronted by Jeremy's mother. After having an argument with Allyson, Corey leaves the party and runs into the bullies, who throw him off a bridge. He is dragged into the sewers and choked by Michael, who eventually lets him go. As he crawls out, Corey is threatened by a homeless man. In a struggle, Corey stabs the man to death and flees.

Corey seeks out Allyson to make amends, and the two go on a dinner date. They are interrupted by Allyson's ex-boyfriend, police officer Doug Mulaney, who harasses them both. Corey later lures Doug into the sewer. Michael emerges and, although in a weakened condition, kills Doug to Corey's delight. Allyson is passed over for a promotion at work, in favor of a nurse who is having an affair with the doctor. Later that night, Corey kills the doctor at his home while Michael kills the nurse. An unknowing Allyson plans to leave Haddonfield with an insistent Corey because of the past trauma, while Laurie becomes increasingly suspicious of Corey. Speaking to Jeremy's father, Laurie realizes Corey is infected by Michael's evil.

On October 31, Laurie finds Corey sleeping in the spot where Jeremy died, and offers to help him on the condition that he distance himself from Allyson. Corey retorts by blaming her for the events that have occurred in Haddonfield and says if he cannot have Allyson, no one will. Corey returns to the sewers and successfully fights a still-weak Michael for his mask. Meanwhile, Laurie and Allyson argue as she plans to leave, and Allyson, too, blames Laurie for Michael's actions. That night, a masked Corey embarks on a rampage, murdering the bullies after luring them to the salvage yard, one of whom accidentally kills Corey's stepfather. He goes on to kill his mother and a DJ at a local radio station, who had taunted him earlier.

At the Strode house, Laurie fakes a suicide attempt to lure Corey to her, whom she shoots down the stairs. Corey then stabs himself in the neck to frame Laurie for his death in front of the arriving Allyson, who leaves in distress. Michael suddenly arrives, retrieves his mask, and kills Corey. A fight ensues in Laurie's kitchen, and Laurie manages to pin Michael to the kitchen table and slit his throat. After a struggle, Allyson, convinced of the truth behind Corey's death after receiving a call from Frank, returns to help subdue and finally kill him by slicing his wrist. Laurie and Allyson take Michael's body to the salvage yard by police escort, attracting the residents of Haddonfield, who follow them in a procession, and dispose of it in an industrial shredder. In the ensuing days, Allyson and Laurie reconcile, and Allyson leaves Haddonfield while Laurie finishes her memoir and rediscovers her romance with Deputy Hawkins.

####Innocent Blood####
Marie is a vampire in modern Pittsburgh, with a moral code that limits her bloodsucking to the criminal elements of society. After feasting on "mafioso" Tony Silva, she shoots him in the head with a shotgun to cover up the bite marks on his neck and to prevent him from coming back as a vampire. Undercover cop Joseph Gennaro visits the crime scene but is taken off his assignment of infiltrating the crime family of Salvatore "Sal the Shark" Macelli and put into protective custody by District Attorney Sinclair for being seen at the crime scene by the media.

The next night, Marie seduces Sal, who takes her back to his mansion for "dinner". She is warded off when Sal serves garlic mussels, and she tries to escape through the bathroom window but finds it barred up. Sal attempts to rape her but Marie overpowers him and drains his blood. Before she can finish him off, Sal's limousine driver, Lenny intervenes and she is forced to flee. Gennaro investigates the scene and follows a trail of blood to a nearby church, where he finds and chases Marie. When Gennaro gets back to his car, Marie finds him and demands that he drive her to the morgue where Sal was taken. Sal, now a vampire, awakens in the morgue and steals a car to drive to the home of his attorney, Manny Bergman, being seen by police and reporters in his escape.

Outside the morgue, Gennaro leaves Marie with his colleagues Detectives Dave Finton and Steve Morales and goes to Bergman's house to pursue Sal. Marie escapes from custody and follows him. At Bergman's home, Sal drinks Bergman's blood and Gennaro is captured by Lenny and Jacko. The three mobsters take Gennaro to the docks and attempt to kill him using the compactor of a garbage truck. Marie arrives, saves him and kills Sal's men but Sal manages to escape. Gennaro and Marie attempt to pursue him but the sun rises and Marie has to retreat into a motel. Sal hides in a meat factory that he owns. Bergman is transferred to a hospital but after becoming a vampire, he is burned alive when a nurse opens the window and lets the sunlight in. In the motel, Gennaro and Marie confess their feelings for each other and have sex.

The next night, Sal travels to a strip club that he owns and begins turning his men into vampires like him. Gennaro and Marie begin searching Mafia hangouts for Sal. Finton and Morales track him down to the strip club but Sal's men kill Finton. Marie and Gennaro arrive in time to save Morales and kill Sal's men by shooting them in the head. They chase Sal out onto the street, where he causes a collision between a taxi and a bus. Gennaro kills him by igniting him with the leaking gas tank of the bus and then shooting him in the head. Marie can no longer handle being the monster she is, and attempts to commit suicide by the sunlight, stating that she "died a long time ago". Gennaro talks her out of it, telling her that he loves her. Gennaro books her into a nearby hotel and Marie states in a voiceover that he "made [her] feel alive" and decides to make him a vampire.

####Interview with the Vampire####
In modern-day San Francisco, reporter Daniel Molloy interviews Louis de Pointe du Lac, who claims to be a vampire. Louis describes his human life as a wealthy plantation owner in 1791 Spanish Louisiana. Despondent following the death of his wife and unborn child, he drunkenly wanders the waterfront of New Orleans one night and is attacked by the vampire Lestat de Lioncourt. Lestat senses Louis's dissatisfaction with life and offers to turn him into a vampire. Louis accepts, but quickly comes to regret it. While Lestat revels in the hunt and killing of humans, Louis resists his instinct to kill, instead drinking animal blood to sustain himself.

Eventually, amid an outbreak of plague in New Orleans, Louis feeds on a little girl whose mother died in the plague. To entice Louis to stay with him, Lestat turns the dying girl, Claudia, into a vampire. Together, they raise her as a daughter. Louis has a love for Claudia, while Lestat spoils and treats her more as a pupil, training her to become a merciless killer. Thirty years pass, and Claudia matures psychologically but remains a little girl in appearance and continues to be treated as such by Lestat. When she realizes that she will never grow older or become a mature woman, she is furious with Lestat and tells Louis that they should leave him. She tricks Lestat into drinking the "dead blood" of twin boys whom she killed by overdose with laudanum, which weakens Lestat, and then slits his throat. Though Louis is shocked and upset, he helps Claudia dump Lestat's body in a  swamp. They spend weeks planning a voyage to Europe to search for other vampires, but Lestat returns on the night of their departure, having survived on the blood of swamp creatures. Lestat attacks them, but Louis sets him on fire, allowing them to escape to their ship and depart.

After traveling around Europe and the Mediterranean but finding no other vampires, Louis and Claudia settle in Paris in September 1870. Louis encounters vampires Santiago and Armand by chance. Armand invites Louis and Claudia to his coven, the "Théâtre des Vampires", where vampires stage theatrical horror shows for humans. On their way out of the theater, Santiago reads Louis's mind and suspects that Louis and Claudia murdered Lestat. Armand warns Louis to send Claudia away for her own safety, and Louis stays with Armand to learn about the meaning of being a vampire. Claudia demands that Louis turn a human woman, Madeleine, into a vampire to be her new protector and companion, and he reluctantly complies. Shortly thereafter, the Parisian vampires abduct the three of them and punish them for Lestat's murder, imprisoning Louis in a coffin and trapping Claudia and Madeleine in a chamber, where sunlight burns them to ash. Armand does nothing to prevent this, but the next day he frees Louis. Seeking revenge, Louis returns to the theater at dawn and sets it on fire, killing all the vampires including Santiago. Armand arrives in time to help Louis escape the sunrise, and again offers him a place by his side. Louis rejects Armand and leaves, unable to accept Armand's way of life which involve forgetting the past and knowing Armand had allowed Claudia's murder.

As decades pass, Louis never recovers from the loss of Claudia and dejectedly explores the world alone. He returns to New Orleans in 1988 and one night encounters a decayed, weakened Lestat, living as a recluse in an abandoned mansion and surviving on rat blood as Louis once had. Lestat expresses regret for having turned Claudia into a vampire and asks Louis to rejoin him, but Louis declines and leaves. Louis concludes his interview with Molloy, prompting Molloy to beseech Louis to make him his new vampire companion. Louis is outraged that Molloy has not understood the tale of suffering he has related and attacks Molloy to scare him into abandoning the idea. Molloy runs to his car and takes off while playing the cassette tapes of Louis's interview. On the Golden Gate Bridge, Lestat appears and attacks Molloy, taking control of the car. Revived by Molloy's blood, Lestat offers him the choice that he "never had"—whether or not to become a vampire—and laughing, continues driving.

####Jack & Diane####
Diane is an English girl in her late teens who's visiting with her aunt in New York and suffers from chronic nosebleeds. She checks herself in a mirror and transforms into a werewolf-like monster before falling unconscious. Earlier, she walks in the streets trying to borrow a cellphone in order to call her twin sister Karen. Having no luck, she enters a clothing store and asks to use a phone. There, she meets a girl of her age, Jack, who presents as butch and is instantly smitten by Diane. Diane's nose starts bleeding again and Jack helps her. Jack then takes Diane to a night club. Diane seems nauseated, and she goes to the restroom. Once she feels better, she meets up with Jack and the girls passionately kiss.

By morning, the girls part ways and Jack is hit by a car, though not badly harmed. At her aunt's home, Diane is reprimanded by Aunt Linda, who tells her she is grounded. Both of the girls feel misunderstood by their respective parent figures. Diane visits Jack in her home. Jack confides in Diane about a cassette tape with the song "Only You" that she kept as memento of her late brother. Not having access to a personal phone, Diane asks her sister Karen to call Jack pretending to be Diane. When Jack tries to have phone sex with her, Karen reveals she's not really Diane. The next day, Jack visits Diane at her aunt's and the girls get into an argument when Linda intentionally tells Jack about Diane soon leaving to attend fashion school in Paris, along with her sister. This and the fake phone call anger Jack, who leaves abruptly.

With Jack not wanting to be with her anymore, Diane suffers from desolation. Meanwhile, Jack hangs out with a colleague, Tara. They have an intimate moment but Jack rebuffs her shortly thereafter. The next day, Diane hangs out in the store where Jack works with one of Jack's friends, Chris, to Jack's annoyance. Jack asks Diane to leave, but Diane challenges her to a childish game. Jack wins so Diane is forced to go. Jack gets back to Chris, who found a video of Diane's sister getting raped on an adult website. Despite their falling out, Jack seeks Diane to tell her about the video. After Diane talks to Karen on the phone, she and Jack reconcile. Diane wants to go back home to be with Karen, but Karen refuses. Diane says she always felt like the stronger sister.

Over the next few days, Jack and Diane spend a lot of time together. One night, Diane has a dream of transforming into a monster and devouring Jack's heart. She wakes up only to find Jack at her side with blood gushing out of her nose. As the days narrow down before Diane has to leave for school, the bond between the two girls is threatened by the upcoming separation. While they're in a locker room to retrieve Diane's suitcases, the lights suddenly go off. In the dark, Diane is startled by the monster she had previously dreamed of transforming into. Jack goes to see Diane on her last day in New York and the two girls console each other, finally letting go of their fears.

After a few weeks, Diane receives a cassette player with the tape made by Jack's brother. She turns the song on and listens to it profoundly.

####Life After Beth####
Zach Orfman is devastated when his girlfriend, Beth Slocum, dies after being bitten by a venomous snake while hiking. He begins spending time with Beth's parents, Geenie and Maury. Zach confesses to Maury that he and Beth were having problems in their relationship, but Maury advises him not to let this define them.

When the Slocums suddenly stop contacting Zach, he visits their house and sees Beth through a window. Zach yells to be let in but his brother Kyle, a security officer, escorts him off the premises. At home, Zach's insistence that Beth is alive cause his parents to worry. That night, Zach breaks in and discovers that Beth's parents have been hiding her. A heated argument ensues before Zach storms off. Later, he goes to Beth's grave and sees a large hole in its place. He confronts Geenie and Maury, who explain that, after her funeral, Beth suddenly reappeared, seemingly alive and well. Beth's parents are reluctant to let her leave the house during daytime and refuse to tell her that she died. When Zach takes Beth on a daytime date in the park, her face starts to blister. Maury bans Zach from seeing Beth, but Zach continues to sneak in.

Beth grows increasingly violent and begins having severe mood swings. Zach notices other people around town acting similarly, and seemingly physically stronger than when they were alive. Zach goes to a diner where he sees his childhood friend, Erica Wexler, who offers her condolences over Beth. As they leave, Zach accidentally runs Beth over with his car. Several bystanders rush to her aid, but she scares them off by screaming at them. After a violent confrontation with Erica when Beth mistakenly assumes Zach is cheating on her, he brings Beth to her grave and tells her the truth, then tries to break up with her, only for her to angrily drive off in his car. Zach returns home and discovers that his late grandfather has also resurrected.

Maury arrives and implores Zach to tell Beth that he lied about her being dead and promise to stay with her forever, to which Zach reluctantly agrees. Zach drives off with an increasingly distraught Beth, but Maury catches them, knocks Zach unconscious, and takes Beth home. Once Zach wakes, he returns home to find a stranger in the house and burnt bodies in the backyard, which he believes to be his family.

Zach prepares to leave the state, but changes his mind and drives back to the Slocum house. He finds the house in disarray and discovers that Beth, now a full-fledged bloodthirsty zombie, has eaten Maury and bitten off Geenie's hand. Zach allows Geenie to escape and calms Beth by promising to hike with her. They run into Kyle, who is hunting zombies and explains that their parents are still alive and have escaped to a safehouse. Kyle gives Zach his handgun and encourages him to put Beth out of her misery. Zach and Beth stop by a cliff. He tearfully apologizes for never doing the things she wanted when she was still alive. They profess their love to each other before Zach shoots her in the head.

Zach is reunited with his family at the safehouse, along with a traumatized Erica, who was forced to kill her own grandmother. The survivors make plans to leave town, but the power suddenly returns and a TV news report claims things have returned to normal. Some time later, Zach visits Beth and Maury's graves and leaves Beth's scarf on her tombstone, and a chess piece on Maury's. Zach's mom picks him up, along with Erica. Zach invites Erica for dinner and she accepts, smiling as they drive off.

####The Love Witch####
Elaine, a beautiful young witch, is driving to Arcata, California, a town that tolerates witchcraft, to start a new life after the death of her husband Jerry. It is heavily implied that Elaine may have murdered him. Once there, she rents an apartment in a Victorian home owned by Elaine's mentor Barbara and kept up by its interior decorator, Trish Manning. In an attempt to befriend the young woman, Trish takes Elaine to a teahouse, where she is met by her husband Richard, who is instantly besotted with Elaine after meeting her gaze. Hoping to find a new lover, Elaine performs a ritual to find one and soon meets Wayne, a literature professor at the local college.

The two travel to Wayne's cabin, where she gets him to drink a concoction containing hallucinogens. Once the two have sex Wayne becomes emotional and clingy which proves to be a turnoff for Elaine. He dies the next day and Elaine buries his body along with a witch bottle containing her urine and used tampon. She decides that the next man she will try to seduce will be Richard since he is married and cannot obsess over her. While Trish is away, Elaine invites him over to her apartment, where she also serves him a concoction before seducing him with a dance. The night ends with them having sex. Afterwards, Richard becomes obsessed with Elaine, causing her to abandon their affair.

Unbeknownst to Elaine, one of Wayne's colleagues has reported him missing, leading to police officer Griff to investigate and discover Wayne's body and Elaine's witch bottle. He traces it to Elaine, but falls in love with her and initially refuses to believe that she would be capable of murder, much to the ire of his partner Steve. Elaine shares his love and believes him to be the man of her dreams, even going so far as to hold a mock wedding with her coven at a Renaissance faire.

Griff's superior educates him on the tenuous peace between the town and the witches, then tells him to abandon the pursuit of Elaine as a suspect. When his partner Steve pushes him, he reveals that Wayne died of a heart attack and that the devil's weed found in his system grew around his cabin. For the first time it is revealed that Jerry died from a drug overdose shortly before remarrying, even though he did not take drugs.

Meanwhile, a morose Richard kills himself in his bathtub and is discovered by Trish. Despondent, she invites Elaine to tea again and tries on a ring that Griff gave Elaine during their mock wedding, only to forget to return the ring to Elaine. Trish decides to leave the ring inside Elaine's apartment, where she proceeds to put on Elaine's makeup and underwear, imitating Elaine. Trish eventually discovers a shrine to Elaine's dead lovers, and that Richard was one of them. Trish is caught by Elaine, and Trish viciously attacks Elaine before leaving the apartment with evidence tying Elaine to Richard, swearing Elaine will burn for what she did.

Elaine then goes to the cabaret to meet Griff, who confronts her over the deaths of Wayne and Richard. He tells her that she is tied to both of them by DNA evidence left in Wayne's witch bottle and that items Trish gave him implicate her in Richard's suicide. Despite his earlier love, Griff is unwilling to let Elaine go unpunished. Their conversation is overheard by the cabaret patrons who are prejudiced towards witches and attempt to sexually assault Elaine. Griff helps her escape and the two return to her apartment.

Once safe inside, Elaine concocts a drink for him like she did for the others, but he drops it on the floor instead of drinking it. Realizing that he was correct when telling her that no man can ever love her enough, she shrinks back in disbelief, grabs her athame and stabs him in the heart. With Griff dead, life has imitated art and matches the painting on the wall of them dressed like at their mock wedding and her kneeling over his body with a bloody dagger. In delirium, she smiles and imagines them at their wedding and that Griff actually proposed.

####The Naked Jungle####
In 1901, Joanna arrives from New Orleans at a South American cocoa plantation to meet her new husband (whom she married by proxy), plantation owner Christopher Leiningen. This has been arranged by his brother in New Orleans. Leiningen is upset that she is a widow, as he wished to marry a virgin. She tells him a piano plays better if it has already been played.

Leiningen is cold and remote to her, rebuffing all her attempts to make friends with him. She is beautiful, independent, and arrives ready to be his stalwart helpmate. There is a strong sexual tension, which appears hard to resolve. Although there is mutual softening, he still decides to send her back to the US. Leiningen decides to advance this plan by a month when he hears from the local commissioner of a potential attack by an army of ants (marabunta), as he does not wish her to be harmed.

As she awaits the boat to take her back to the United States, they learn that legions of army ants - the "marabunta" - will strike in a few days' time. Leiningen refuses to give up the home he fought so hard to create. Instead of evacuating, he resolves to make a stand against this indomitable natural predator. The ants take several days to arrive and during that time their joint effort brings them closer and love begins to blossom. Joanna joins the fight to save the plantation.

Leiningen's most drastic action is blowing up a timber dam to flood his own estate, washing the ants away.

####Night of the Living Deb####
At a bar, Deb Clarington, a camera operator for the local  news, sees an attractive man, Ryan Waverly.  Although she is initially too insecure to approach him, her friend Ruby talks her into it.  While awkwardly hitting on him, Deb is interrupted by Ryan's fiancé, who breaks up with him when he refuses to accept a high-paying job at his father's company.  The next thing Deb knows, she wakes in Ryan's bed with a hangover.  Ryan asks her to leave and after several attempts to seduce him, she reluctantly agrees but sees people attack and cannibalize each other.  Deb saves Ryan from a zombie attack and they return to his apartment.

Deb once again attempts to seduce Ryan, who is more concerned with checking on his family and ex-fiancée.  Since he has no car, Deb agrees to help him.  They first visit his elderly neighbor for supplies.  Finding her apparently dead, they bicker over arrangements, only to be surprised when she rises as a zombie.  After they kill her, Deb drops the supplies, alerting many zombies.  The two flee to her car, agreeing that they will not stop until they reach Ryan's family.  Along the way, Deb eagerly rams several zombies; Ryan objects, saying they may be treatable.  Although skeptical of his idealism, Deb agrees not to unnecessarily kill them.

Despite their earlier agreement, Deb takes a detour to visit Ruby, who is now a zombie.  Convinced the zombies may be treatable, Deb traps Ruby in the car's trunk.  At Ryan's father's mansion, the two meet Chaz, Ryan's brother, who quizzes them on whether they are zombies before allowing them in.  Ryan is reunited with Stacy and Ryan's father, Frank, reveals that his water treatment plant spread the zombie virus to the town.  When Deb pushes for more information, he blames the governor for pushing an environmentally dangerous project, to Ryan's disgust.

Frank privately tells Ryan the governor has arranged a helicopter for them and Ryan insists they take Deb.  Frank refuses but relents when Ryan threatens to stay behind.  Frank tries to drug Deb so they can abandon her but she hands the drugged food to their security guard.  When Ryan tells Stacy he no longer wants to marry her, she loudly simulates having sex, driving Deb to leave the house and Chaz to become intensely jealous.  After their guard dies, zombies attack Stacy.  Chaz ignores her pleas for help and dazed by seeing her eaten alive, allows himself to be bitten.  The Waverlys leave the house for the helicopter, taking Chaz with them.

Deb discovers a security checkpoint at the town limits.  Satisfying the paramilitary group, they allow her to leave but say she must turn back to the town.  After she invokes Frank's name to the governor, Frank appears, demanding his helicopter transportation.  The governor explains there never was a helicopter and he wants only to clean up loose ends.  Ryan tells the Governor that Deb is a reporter who has evidence on him hidden in her car's trunk; the governor opens the trunk and is killed by Ruby. When Frank is also bitten, he tells Ryan and Deb to flee while he holds off the soldiers.

Deb realizes they can use her television station to send out a broadcast that can not be jammed.  After she proclaims her love for Ryan on-air, she is bitten.  Believing herself to be turning into a zombie, she asks Ryan to leave her behind and wait for help but he refuses to abandon her, instead offering himself to her as zombie food.  Before she can bite him, paramedics break into the station and reveal the virus is not contagious.  Frank and Chaz, revealed to have also survived although under arrest, encourage Ryan to proclaim his love to Deb.  As fighter jets bomb the city, Deb and Ryan kiss.

####The Phantom of the Opera####
:"Based on the general release version of 1925, which has additional scenes and sequences in different order than the existing reissue print."

The film opens with the debut of the new season at the Paris Opera House, with a production of Gounod's "Faust". Comte Philippe de Chagny and his brother, the Vicomte Raoul de Chagny are in attendance. Raoul is there only in the hope of hearing his sweetheart Christine Daaé sing. Christine has made a sudden rise from the chorus to understudy for Mme. Carlotta, the prima donna. Raoul visits her in her dressing room during an interval and makes his intentions known that he wishes for Christine to resign and marry him, but she refuses to let their relationship get in the way of her career.

At the height of the most prosperous season in the Opera's history, the management suddenly resign. As they leave, they tell the new managers about the Opera Ghost, a phantom who is "the occupant of box No. 5".

After the performance, the ballerinas are disturbed by the sight of a mysterious man in a fez prowling down in the cellars and they wonder if he could be the Phantom. Meanwhile, Mme. Carlotta, the prima donna, has received a letter from "The Phantom," demanding that Christine sing the role of Marguerite the following night, threatening dire consequences if his demands are not met. In Christine's dressing room, an unseen voice warns Christine that she must take Carlotta's place and that she is to think only of her career and her master.

The following day, in a garden near the Opera House, Raoul meets Christine and asks her to reconsider his offer. Christine admits that she has been tutored by a divine voice, the "Spirit of Music," and that it is now impossible to stop her career. Raoul tells her that he thinks someone is playing a joke on her and she storms off in anger.


That evening, Christine takes Carlotta's place in the opera. During the performance, the managers enter Box 5 and are startled to see a shadowy figure seated there, who disappears when they are not looking. Later, Simon Buquet finds the body of his brother, stagehand Joseph Buquet, hanging by a noose and vows vengeance. Carlotta receives another peremptory note from the Phantom. Once again, he demands that she say she is ill and let Christine take on her role. The managers get a similar note, reiterating that if Christine does not sing, they will present "Faust" in a house with a curse on it.

The following evening, despite the Phantom's warnings, a defiant Carlotta appears as Marguerite. During the performance, the large crystal chandelier hanging from the ceiling is dropped onto the audience by the Phantom, crushing some people to death. Christine enters a secret door behind the mirror in her dressing room, descending into the lower depths of the Opera. She meets the Phantom, who introduces himself as Erik and declares his love; Christine faints and Erik carries her to an underground suite fabricated for her comfort. The next day, she finds a note from Erik telling her that she is free to come and go as she pleases, but that she must never look behind his mask. As the Phantom is preoccupied playing his organ, Christine sneaks up behind him and playfully tears off his mask, revealing his deformed skull-like face. Enraged, the Phantom declares that she is now his prisoner. She pleads with him to let her sing again and he relents, allowing her to visit the surface one last time if she promises not to see Raoul again.

Released, Christine makes a rendezvous with Raoul at the annual masked-ball, at which the Phantom appears in the guise of Poe's "Red-Death". Raoul and Christine flee to the roof of the Opera House, where she tells him about her experiences. Unbeknownst to them, the Phantom is listening nearby atop a statue. Raoul swears to whisk Christine safely away to London with him following her next performance. As they leave the roof, the mysterious man with the fez approaches them. Aware that the Phantom is waiting downstairs, he leads Christine and Raoul to another exit.

The next night, during her performance, Christine is kidnapped by the Phantom. Raoul rushes to her dressing room and meets the man in the fez again, who reveals himself to be Inspector Ledoux, a secret policeman who has been tracking Erik since he escaped as a prisoner from Devil's Island. Ledoux reveals the secret door in Christine's room and the two men enter the catacombs of the Opera House in an attempt to rescue Christine. They fall into the Phantom's dungeon, a torture chamber of his design. Philippe has also found his way into the catacombs looking for his brother. Philippe is drowned by Erik, who returns to his lair to find the other two men trapped in the torture chamber.

The Phantom subjects the two prisoners to intense heat; they manage to escape the chamber by opening a trap door in the floor. In the chamber below, the Phantom shuts a gate, locking them in with barrels full of gunpowder. He causes the room to flood. Christine begs the Phantom to save Raoul, promising him anything in return, even becoming his wife. At the last second, the Phantom opens a trapdoor in his floor through which Raoul and Ledoux are saved.

A mob led by Simon Buquet infiltrates the Phantom's lair. As the mob approaches, the Phantom attempts to flee with Christine in a carriage. While Raoul saves Christine, the Phantom is beaten to death by the mob and thrown into the River Seine. In a brief epilogue, Raoul and Christine are shown on their honeymoon in Viroflay.

####Red Riding Hood####
Valerie lives with her parents, Cesaire and Suzette, and older sister Lucie in the village of Daggerhorn, on the edge of a forest plagued by a werewolf. She is in love with the woodcutter and childhood friend Peter, but her parents arrange for her to marry Henry, son of the wealthy blacksmith Adrien Lazar. Valerie and Peter plan to elope, only to learn the Wolf has broken its truce not to prey on the townspeople and murdered Lucie.

The preacher Father Auguste calls upon the famous witch hunter Father Solomon for help, but the townspeople decide to venture into the Wolf's lair. As the village celebrates, Father Solomon declares that the slain animal is a common grey wolf, as the true werewolf would have reverted to human form. Father Solomon's men isolate Daggerhorn and investigate the villagers to find out the Wolf's identity. That night, the Wolf attacks, and the townspeople shelter in the church while Valerie and her friend Roxanne search for Roxanne's autistic brother, Claude. Cornered by the beast, Valerie discovers she is able to understand the Wolf, who threatens to kill Roxanne and destroy the village if Valerie does not leave with him. The Wolf escapes, vowing to return for Valerie's decision.

The next day, Claude is captured and killed by Father Solomon's men for supposedly practicing black magic. Roxanne reveals that Valerie is able to communicate with the Wolf. Believing Valerie is also a witch, Father Solomon displays her in the town square to lure the Wolf. Henry and Peter help Valerie escape. Henry brings Valerie to the church, where the Wolf bites off Father Solomon's hand with silver-coated fingernails. The villagers shield Valerie from the Wolf, who is again forced to flee after burning its right paw on the church's holy ground. Since Father Solomon has been bitten by the Wolf, the Captain has no choice but to kill him.

Valerie dreams that the Wolf is her grandmother, and rushes to her nearby cabin, where she finds her grandmother dead and discovers that her father, Cesaire, is the Wolf. He reveals the curse was passed to him by his own father and he intended to leave the village with his children, having killed Lucie after realizing she could not understand him in wolf form and realizing Suzette had conceived her through an affair with  Adrien. He asks Valerie to accept the curse, but she refuses. Peter appears and Cesaire bites him and throws him aside. Peter throws an axe into Cesaire's back, allowing Valerie to kill her father. Valerie and Peter fill Cesaire's body with rocks and dump him in the lake in order to protect the secret from the villagers. Peter departs, vowing to return when he has learned to control the curse. Valerie says she will wait for him, and watches him depart.

In the next few years, Daggerhorn returns to normal; despite Cesaire's death, the people continue to sacrifice livestock to the werewolf, fearful of its return and not knowing it has been killed, while Suzette realizes Cesaire is never coming back, though she remains unaware that Valerie killed him. Henry becomes the next witch hunter, succeeding Father Solomon and becoming a highly honorable man, while Valerie chooses to live in the forest on her own, having become disillusioned with living in Daggerhorn. Finally, one night, Valerie hears something in the woods outside her grandmother's former house that she has moved into. She is then greeted by Peter, transformed into a werewolf and in full control of his abilities, when he returns to be with her. In the ending of the alternate cut, when Valerie sees Peter upon his return, she is holding their baby.

####Da Sweet Blood of Jesus####
The film opens with an unnamed dancer (Charles "Lil Buck" Riley) dancing in various locations around Brooklyn during the credit sequence.

From there, the plot follows Dr. Hess Green (Stephen Tyrone Williams), a wealthy African-American anthropologist and art collector who acquires a dagger originating in the ancient Ashanti Empire, a highly advanced civilization that, Green claims, became addicted to blood transfusions. That night, Lafayette Hightower (Elvis Nolasco), an emotionally unstable colleague from the museum which acquired the dagger, visits Green's impressive, African-art covered Martha's Vineyard mansion. The two cordially discuss history and philosophy, but once Green has retired for the evening, Hightower becomes drunk and climbs a tree with a noose, claiming he wants to commit suicide. Green successfully talks him down, but later that night Hightower attacks and stabs Green with the Ashanti ceremonial dagger, killing him. Sometime later, Green is shocked to awaken—unscathed. He hears a gunshot and, upon discovering that Hightower has killed himself, he instinctively drinks Hightower's blood. He discovers that he is invulnerable to physical harm, can no longer tolerate normal food and drink, and has an insatiable need for more blood. Though he steals several bags of blood from a doctor's office, he quickly finds that he needs fresh victims. The first is a prostitute Lucky Mays (Felicia Pearson) who, shockingly, reawakens—only after he has discovered that her blood is HIV-positive. After a period of tension, it is determined that he has not contracted the virus.

Soon, Hightower's estranged ex-wife, Ganja Hightower (Zaraah Abrahams), arrives at Green's house searching for her ex-husband, who owes her money. Green and Ganja quickly become lovers, and she moves into Green's expansive mansion. He departs "on business" and kills Sahara Paysinger, a young woman with a baby (Jeni Perillo) whom he meets in a public park in Brooklyn. While Green is away, Ganja unwittingly discovers her ex-husband's corpse—frozen in his wine cellar—she is initially angry, but after Green explains what happened and tells her that he loves her, she agrees to marry him. On the honeymoon night, he stabs her with the Ashanti dagger so that she will share immortality with him. Ganja is initially horrified by her new existence, but Green teaches her how to survive. He brings home an old female acquaintance Tangier Chancellor (Naté Bova), for Ganja's first kill. Ganja seduces and then strangles Tangier. Ganja and Hess bury Tangier's body, even though, like Lucky from before, her "corpse" reawakens.

Green tells Ganja he is tired of this life and eventually visits a Red Hook church where he is moved by an energetic musical performance and approaches the altar to have the pastor lay hands on him. Meanwhile, back at home, Ganja murders Green's loyal domestic servant Seneschal Higginbottom (Rami Malek). When she searches for Green to confess, she finds him in the shadow of a cross, dying. Green dies in her arms, glad to be at peace. Ganja, though saddened by his death, lives on, presumably continuing her vampire-esque lifestyle. At the movie's closing, we see her walk out to the beach and gaze out into the water. Tangier appears, still naked, approaches her then turns and they stand side by side facing the horizon.

####Wolf####
Will Randall is bitten by a black wolf he accidentally struck while driving home in Vermont. Afterwards, he gets demoted from editor-in-chief of a publishing house when it gets taken over by tycoon Raymond Alden, who replaces him with Will's protégé Stewart Swinton. Will discovers that Stewart had begged Raymond for the job behind Will's back and suspects that Stewart is having an affair with his wife Charlotte, after he smells Stewart's scent on her clothes. Will bites Stewart on the hand while entering his apartment and rushes to the room to find Charlotte half-naked. His worst fears are confirmed, and he leaves without saying a word. Will becomes more aggressive as he starts taking on the characteristics of a wolf.

With the help of Raymond's headstrong daughter Laura, Will sets out for his new life. His first werewolf transformation takes place at Laura's estate, where he wakes up at night and hunts down a deer. In the morning, Will finds himself on the bank of a stream, with blood all over his face and hands. He visits Dr. Vijav Alezais, who gives him an amulet to protect him from turning completely into a wolf. However, he cannot persuade Will to infect him. That night, Will transforms into a werewolf again: he breaks into the zoo and steals handcuffs from a policeman. Muggers want his wallet, but Will attacks and bites the fingers off one of them. He wakes up in his hotel, with no memory of what happened.

Will organizes a mutiny of writers, who threaten to leave the publishing house unless he is retained as editor-in-chief. Raymond agrees, and Will's first act is to fire Stewart, urinating on his shoes in a bathroom and claiming he is "marking his territory". While washing his hands, Will finds the fingers in his handkerchief and realizes he has wounded someone. He cuffs himself to a radiator in his hotel room, but Laura arrives and downplays his belief that he is werewolf. The next morning, Detective Bridger knocks on Will's door to inform him that Charlotte was found dead in Central Park with canine DNA on her. Will wonders if he murdered Charlotte, but does not know that it was actually Stewart who killed her.

Believing Will is a murderer, Laura goes to the police station. There, she runs into Stewart, who makes an animal-like pass at her while sporting increasingly obvious werewolf traits (noticeably, golden eyes). Laura hurries away, making arrangements for her and Will to leave the country. After killing two guards at the estate, Stewart corners Laura in the barn with the intention to rape her, but Will intervenes after discarding the amulet restraining him and the two fight; in the end, Stewart is shot to death by Laura after getting heavily mauled by Will. Still in a half-human state, Will has a brief moment with Laura and then runs into the forest before anyone else can arrive.

Minutes later, Laura herself shows heightened senses when the police arrive; telling Bridger that she can smell vodka on his breath before taking her leave. The final scene is a close-up of her face and of Will finally turning into a full wolf howling for Laura. Then it goes back to Laura's face as her eyes become wolf-like, hinting that she herself is transforming into a werewolf.

####Aladdin####
Aladdin, an orphaned street urchin in the Arabian city of Agrabah, and his monkey Abu meet Princess Jasmine, who has snuck away from her sheltered life in the palace. She wishes to succeed her father as Sultan, but is instead expected to marry one of her royal suitors. Jafar, the Grand Vizier, schemes to overthrow the Sultan and seeks a magic lamp that only "the diamond in the rough" can retrieve.

While sneaking into the royal palace to visit Jasmine, Aladdin and Abu are captured by Jafar. He offers to make Aladdin rich enough to impress Jasmine in exchange for retrieving the lamp from the Cave of Wonders. Once there, Aladdin frees a magic carpet and finds the lamp. Aladdin gives the lamp to Jafar, who double-crosses him and kicks him and Abu into the cave, but Abu steals the lamp back.

Trapped in the cave, Aladdin rubs the lamp, unwittingly summoning the omnipotent Genie inside, who has the power to grant Aladdin three wishes. Aladdin gets them out of the cave without using a wish, on a technicality. Determined to woo Jasmine, he uses his official first wish to become a prince, and promises to use his third wish to free the Genie from servitude and turn him human.

Aladdin makes an extravagant arrival at Agrabah as "Prince Ali of Ababwa", but struggles to impress Jasmine. Posing as Aladdin's human attendant, the Genie is mutually smitten with Dalia, Jasmine's handmaiden. Aladdin and Jasmine bond when he takes her on a ride on the magic carpet. Tricked into revealing his true identity, he lies to her, saying that he actually is a prince and dressed like a peasant to explore Agrabah.

Jafar discovers Aladdin's identity and throws him into the palace moat, knowing that if he survives, it will prove that he has the lamp. The Genie saves Aladdin, costing him his second wish. Once rescued, Aladdin returns to the palace and destroys Jafar's magic cobra staff, ending his spell over the Sultan and revealing his plot. Jafar is then arrested and imprisoned in the dungeons. The Sultan allows Aladdin to marry Jasmine. Aladdin goes back on his promise to free the Genie, feeling uncertain of being able to keep up his charade without him. Dismayed that Aladdin wants to continue living a lie, the Genie retreats to his lamp in disappointment.

Freed by his parrot sidekick Iago, Jafar steals the lamp and becomes the Genie's new master. He uses his first wish to become sultan and his second one to become the world's most powerful sorcerer. Jafar then exposes Aladdin, exiles him and Abu to a frozen wasteland, and threatens to kill the Sultan and Dalia unless Jasmine agrees to marry him. At the wedding, Jasmine rescues the lamp from Jafar and jumps onto the magic carpet to escape with Aladdin and Abu, who had been rescued from the frozen wasteland by the magic carpet, after the Genie sent it behind Jafar's back. Attacked by Jafar using a sand twister to recaptured Aladdin and Jasmine and destroy the magic carpet.

Aladdin taunts Jafar for being second in power to the Genie, goading him into using his last wish to become "the most powerful being in the universe". Jafar turns into a genie and becomes trapped inside his own lamp, dragging Iago with him, and the Genie banishes them to the Cave of Wonders. Abu rescues the magic carpet and Genie fixes it up. Aladdin keeps his promise and uses his last wish to free the Genie, allowing him to live as a human. The Sultan crowns Jasmine the new sultana-regnant, no longer bound to marry a prince, and she and Aladdin marry. The Genie marries Dalia and they start a family and explore the world together, with the Genie becoming the mariner who is telling his children the story about Aladdin in the beginning of the film.

####Anchors Aweigh####
Gunner's Mate Second Class Joe Brady and Seaman First Class Clarence Doolittle are USN sailors who have a four-day leave in Hollywood. Joe has his heart set on spending time with his girl (the never seen) Lola. Clarence, the shy choir boy turned sailor, asks Joe to teach him how to get girls. Donald, a little boy who wants to join the navy, is found wandering around the boulevard by a cop, who takes him to the police station. Clarence and Joe end up being picked up by the cops to help convince Donald to go home. After the two sailors wait at home and entertain Donald, Donald's Aunt Susie arrives. Clarence is smitten with her from the beginning. Susan goes on to tell them that she has been trying to find work in music, and longs to perform with José Iturbi. Trying to make Susan impressed with Clarence, Joe tells her that Clarence is a personal friend of Iturbi, and that he has arranged an audition for Susan with him. That night, they go out to a café (on an MGM recreation of Olvera Street) where Clarence meets a girl from Brooklyn, and they hit it off. The next day, Joe visits Donald's school, and tells the kids the story of how he got his medal, and how he brought happiness to a young lonesome king (played by Jerry the Mouse in an animated sequence from Tom and Jerry), and joy to the forest animals of the kingdom.

Meanwhile, Clarence has been trying to get into Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios to find Iturbi, with no luck. After many failed attempts to speak to Iturbi (including a rehearsal at the Hollywood Bowl), all hope is lost for Joe and Clarence, who want to come clean with Susan and tell her there was no audition. On Clarence and Joe's last day of leave, Susan runs into Iturbi In the studio commissary, who has no idea of the audition. Susan begins to call Joe, whom by now she has fallen in love with, to yell at him. Iturbi stops her and agrees to get her a screen test, which turns out to be very successful. The movie ends as Iturbi conducts the choir in singing "Anchors Aweigh", while Joe and Susan, and Clarence and the "Girl from Brooklyn," kiss.

####April Love####
Nick Conover (Pat Boone), a Chicago youth, arrives at his aunt Henrietta (Jeanette Nolan) and uncle Jed Bruce's (Arthur O'Connell) Kentucky horse farm. Neither has seen Nick since he was a child. The move is part of Nick's parole condition after being convicted for joyriding in a stolen vehicle with his friends. Jed initially does not want Nick in his home, and Nick gradually realizes that the reason Jed is hostile to him stems from the loss of his only son, Jed Bruce Jr. who was killed in the Korean War.

Jed, who once raised, trained, and raced horses for harness racing, has neglected the farm. Only one horse remains, a spirited and largely unmanageable stallion named Tugfire, his son's favorite. Nick's disinterest and lack of knowledge of horses is first seen when he gets into the corral alone with Tugfire, who charges him.

Nick meets the Bruces' neighbors, the Templetons, after the younger Templeton daughter, Liz (Shirley Jones), arrives to invite Jed and Nick to their farm. Nick goes, and is amazed at how lavish the Templeton farm is compared to his aunt and uncle's. Liz is the tomboy and farm lover who has a crush on Nick, while her elder sister Fran (Dolores Michaels) is the sophisticate who is dating Al Turner (Bradford Jackson). While Liz rides a sulky out around the track, Nick, ignoring Liz, is attracted to Fran and her Austin-Healey sports car, and she allows him to inspect the engine. He declines Fran's offer to let him drive the car, avoiding explaining that his driver's license was revoked. His love of mechanics again becomes evident when he fixes Jed's tractor and, with Jed's approval, fixes the old jalopy sitting in the barn with the help of Liz.

Nick spends time with both Templeton girls and sees Liz as a "good sport" and Fran as girlfriend material, though she is with Al. The four get along well together, despite Liz knowing that Nick is attracted to Fran. At a barbecue, Nick boasts to Fran that his jalopy could outperform her sports car in a drag race. Fran suggests they race on a back country road. Even though it violates his parole condition, Nick agrees. During the race, Fran drives off the road, crashing her car through a fence, though she and Al escape unharmed. While driving his jalopy around the track, Nick spooks Tugfire, who jumps the corral fence and runs off. Tugfire, tangled in prickly brambles, is freed by Nick. Jed and Henrietta are surprised to see a calm Tugfire being led by Nick. Jed resolves to train a reluctant Nick to ride Tugfire in harness races, and Nick's training eventually improves.

Shortly before the harness races at the Bentonville Fair, Tugfire falls ill after Nick leaves him in the corral during a severe storm. The vet does what he can to treat Tugfire. Late into the night with Nick, Liz and Uncle Jed keeping vigil, Tugfire gets up. After a quick examination, Jed believes he will be able to race. In the excitement of Tugfire's improved condition, Liz gives Nick a quick kiss, which finally makes Nick see Liz in a more romantic light.

At the fair, Nick and Liz declare their romantic interest to each other, culminating with them almost kissing on the ferris wheel. About the races, Nick is told that he only has to win one of the two heats to make it into the finals. He and Tugfire do win the first heat, largely because he was an unknown racer, and thus no one paid any attention to him. In the second heat, he is boxed in by the Templetons' rider, their wheels locked. As the Templetons' rider will not let him pass on the inside, Nick hastily tries to muscle his way through. He crashes and the sulky is damaged. Jed decides to pull Nick and Tugfire from the finals, realizing that he placed too much pressure on Nick. Nick, however, wants to race in the finals, with a sulky donated by Mr. Templeton, and Jed watches from the sidelines as Nick uses his earlier training and drives down the stretch to win the race.

However, immediately after the race, the local sheriff arrives to arrest Nick and send him back to Chicago for parole violation. Not knowing it would cause any problems, Fran filed an accident report about her automobile crash, stating Nick was driver of the other vehicle. Liz steps in to say that Fran was mistaken, and that she was the driver, a story which Fran and Henriette falsely corroborate. Nick, wanting to do the right thing, confesses that Fran's report is correct. The sheriff decides to let Nick stay in Kentucky, having been told by Mr. Templeton to do so since it was a minor infraction and no one got hurt, much to everyone else's relief.

####Atlantic City####
In 1915, Atlantic City is a sleepy seaside resort, but Brad Taylor, son of a small hotel and vaudeville house proprietor, has big plans: he thinks it can be "the playground of the world." Brad's wheeling and dealing proves remarkably successful in attracting big enterprises and big shows, but brings him little success in personal relationships. Full of nostalgic songs and acts, some with the original artists.

####Balalaika####
In 1914 Tsarist Russia, Prince Peter Karagin (Nelson Eddy) is a captain of the Cossack Guards, riding home from manoeuvres to an evening of wine, women and song at St. Petersburg's Cafe Balalaika. The Balalaika's new star, Lydia Pavlovna Marakova (Ilona Massey), is blackmailed into attending the officers' party and is expected to choose a "favoured one." She intrigues Karagin when she makes good her escape instead.

Masquerading as a poor music student, Karagin insinuating himself into Lydia's family and circle of musician friends, unaware that they are dedicated revolutionaries. He discovers his larcenous orderly, Nikki Poppov (Charlie Ruggles), courting the Marakovs' maid, Masha (Joyce Compton). Karagin then bullies Ivan Danchenoff (Frank Morgan), Director of the Imperial Opera, into giving Lydia an audition; Danchenoff is pleasantly surprised to find that (unlike the 60 other women foisted on him by other aristocrats) she has real talent. Later, Karagin orders his usual arrangements for seduction, but falls in love instead and tries to cancel them. She understands both his former and current motives, and admits she loves him too.

Their happiness ends when Lydia's brother Dimitri (Dalies Frantz) is killed after giving a seditious speech on the street by Cossacks led by Peter, whom Lydia recognizes. When she learns that her opera debut will be used as an opportunity to assassinate Peter and his father the general (C. Aubrey Smith), she makes Peter promise not to come or let his father come to the performance, pretending she would be too nervous with them watching. The two men attend anyway. Fortunately, General Karagin receives a message that Germany has declared war on Russia and announces it to the crowd. Professor Makarov (Lionel Atwill), Lydia's father, decides not to shoot because the general will be needed to defend Mother Russia. However, Leo Proplinski (Abner Biberman) feels otherwise, grabs the pistol and shoots the general, though not fatally. Peter finally learns of Lydia's political beliefs when she is arrested. Later, he has her released.

Peter goes to fight as an officer in the trenches. When the Russian Revolution overthrows the old regime, he winds up in 1920s Paris employed by his former orderly as a cabaret entertainer at the new "Balalaika". To celebrate the Russian Orthodox New Year, White Russians, wearing court dress and paste jewels, gather as Poppov's guests. When Poppov makes Peter stand before a mirror, candle in hand, to make the traditional New Year's wish to see his "true love," Lydia appears behind him.

####Bride and Prejudice####
Lalita Bakshi is a young woman living in Amritsar, India with her family. The family is invited to a friend's wedding ceremony, where Lalita meets Will Darcy, a handsome and wealthy American who is a long-time friend of the Indian-British barrister Balraj, and Balraj's sister Kiran. Balraj is instantly attracted to Jaya and likewise, Darcy is attracted to Lalita. During the wedding reception, Lalita takes a disliking to Darcy but when Balraj invites Jaya to Goa, Mr. Bakshi asks Lalita to go with them and she eventually agrees to do so. In Goa, Lalita and Darcy clash over their ideas on men and women and India's economic future. Later that night on the beach, Lalita meets Johnny Wickham, Darcy's former friend from London, and he validates her low opinion of Darcy.

The Bakshi family is visited by Kohli Saab, a family friend living in Los Angeles, who has come to India to find a "traditional woman" to marry. When Kohli Saab is attracted to Jaya, Mrs. Bakshi steers him towards Lalita, making Lalita uncomfortable. Wickham is invited to join the family and Kohli Saab at the Garba, despite Mrs. Bakshi's disapproval. Lalita happily accepts a dance from Wickham, even as Darcy and Kiran warn her against becoming involved with him. Lalita angers her mother by turning down a proposal from Kohli.

Balraj comes to the house to bid farewell to Jaya and promises to write to her from London. Lakhi later announces that Chandra is marrying Kohli Saab, much to the surprise of Jaya and especially Lalita. The same night, Wickham also announces that he is leaving and promises to write to Lalita. Neither Balraj nor Wickham writes to the two older sisters, but Wickham is shown secretly writing to Lakhi. Kohli Saab and Chandra phone to invite the Bakshi family the wedding ceremony in Los Angeles. The family accepts and Jaya is excited to stopover in London hoping to see Balraj again.

In London, Kiran informs the Bakshi family that Balraj is in New York to meet potential brides, devastating Jaya, Lalita and Mrs Bakshi. At Heathrow Airport, Lakhi, Jaya, Lalita and Mrs Bakshi coincidentally run into Darcy, who is also a guest at Kohli Saab and Chandra's wedding. On board Darcy offers his First class seat to Mrs. Bakshi so he can sit next to Lalita in Economy class for the remainder of the flight. During their stay in California, Lalita's opinion of Darcy slowly improves, and the two fall in love.

At the wedding, Darcy's condescending mother, Catherine, introduces Lalita to Darcy's former girlfriend, Anne who mispronounces Lalita's name as "Lolita". Jaya and Lalita also meet Darcy's younger sister, Georgie, who tells Lalita that Balraj and Darcy are not in contact because Darcy persuaded Balraj not to marry an Indian girl with a "gold-digger" Mother. Lalita furiously realizes that Darcy is the reason why Jaya never heard from Balraj. Darcy proposes to Lalita, who angrily refuses, blaming him for Jaya's unhappiness.

Back in London, Lakhi uses the family's layover as an opportunity to sneak away and meet Wickham. Darcy apologizes to Lalita, telling her that he has gotten Balraj to reconcile with Jaya. Lalita realizes that Darcy was right about Wickham and calls for his help to find Lakhi. Darcy explains that Wickham got Georgie pregnant at age 16, tried to marry her for their family's money, and ran away when his plan did not work. They both rescue Lakhi and Lalita accepts Darcy's proposal. The film ends with a double wedding of Jaya to Balraj and Lalita to Darcy.

####Carnival in Costa Rica####
Luisa, daughter of Rico and Elsa Molina, returns to Costa Rica from school in the United States to find that her parents have arranged for her to marry Pepe Castro, a family acquaintance whom she has never met. Pepe has also recently returned from the States, bringing with him his girl friend, Celeste, who plans to work in Costa Rica and become acquainted with Pepe's parents. When Pepe confesses he has not yet told his father about her, Celeste becomes suspicious, prompting him to tell her about the situation with Luisa. The Castros come to visit the Molinas for the formal introduction of the couple, but Pepe arrives wearing dark glasses and faking a bad cold. Once alone with Luisa, Pepe insists that he is sickly and later, at the Gran Hotel Estrada, Jeff Stephens, an American coffee buyer, learns that his evening flight has been canceled and to pass the time, takes a stroll around the plaza. During a kind of traditional flirtation promenade, Jeff meets Luisa and whisks her off to the El Sestéo nightclub, where she spots a very healthy-looking Pepe dancing with Celeste. Luisa runs out of the club followed by Jeff. As it is fiesta time, they go on a Ferris wheel ride and begin to fall in love.

Back at his hotel, Jeff meets his old friend Pepe, who tells him about the predicament he is in without mentioning Luisa's name. The next morning, at breakfast, Jeff comes to serenade an elated Luisa and sends her flowers, asking her to meet him at his hotel by noon. As they walk to lunch, Luisa sees both Pepe and his parents approaching from different directions and makes her escape by jumping on a carnival float on which Celeste is appearing as "The Spirit of the Melon". Later, still feigning illness, Pepe takes Luisa dancing, and they meet Jeff escorting Celeste. Jeff pretends he doesn't know Luisa, and when Celeste discovers that Luisa is Pepe's intended, she tells her she can have him. Both sets of parents are also at the club and are introduced to Celeste and Jeff. Jeff reveals to Luisa's American-born mother that he, too, is from Kansas. After Celeste realizes that Luisa's father thinks she is still enamoured of Pepe, she pushes Pepe to tell him the truth. Later that night, Jeff drives Luisa home, and she invites him to a New Year's Eve party. Father Rafael, who has come to visit the family, sees the couple embrace, and when Luisa goes indoors for a coat, Jeff tells the priest that he is in love with her. Doubting their sudden love, the priest tells Jeff about the conservative courtship traditions of Costa Rica.

The next day, Jeff begins to have doubts about the validity of his relationship with Luisa due to the differences in their backgrounds. At the New Year's Eve party Pepe and Luisa are thrown together, and he tells her that Jeff is leaving and is waiting in the lobby to say goodbye. After the couple part, Luisa disappears. Her concerned father phones Pepe's father, and they agree to meet at the hotel. There the fathers learn that Pepe has checked in with his new bride. Both fathers assume Pepe and Luisa have eloped and are stunned to discover that Pepe has actually married Celeste. Pepe tells them that Jeff and Luisa are in love and that she may have left with Jeff. The fathers find out that Jeff is still in town and is at Luisa's house. When they arrive there, they find Mrs. Molina calmly knitting. She tells them that she has given her and her husband's consent for the boy from Kansas to marry the girl from Costa Rica.

####Children of Dreams####
One day, Molly Standing (Margaret Schilling) is picking apples in her father's apple orchard in California, with her friend Gertie (Marion Byron), when they meet two boys, Tommy Melville (Paul Gregory) and Gus Schultz (Tom Patricola). Molly falls in love with Tommy while Gertie falls in love with Gus. They plan a double wedding.

Gerald Winters and his mother, who are wealthy art patrons, hear Molly singing, and, at Gerald's suggestion, since he is very attracted to her, they sponsor her to study in Italy. Molly is reluctant to go but finally accepts when she discovers her father is in need of money. She leaves on the day that Tommy had hoped would be their wedding day. He says goodbye to her before attending Gertie and Gus's wedding ceremony.

Molly becomes a success in Rome. She returns to the United States to sing at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City, where she is again a great success. After the performance, Tommy attends the party which has been given by Gerald and his mother. Molly asks Tommy to sing, but her society friends do not think much of his singing. Realizing that Molly now lives in a world far apart from his, Tommy breaks off his engagement and returns to the orchards.

Molly stays in New York for two years and then moves on to San Francisco for a concert stop. Although she is supposed to marry Gerald soon, she is unhappy. She goes to her father's orchards to visit her old friend Gertie, to see how things are going with her. She happens to run into Tommy, and they rekindle their love and are married. Before they leave on their honeymoon, the doctor (Charles Winniger) informs Molly's manager and Tommy that Schilling has lost her voice and will never sing again, except perhaps, a lullaby.

####Damn Yankees####
Joe Boyd (Robert Shafer) is a middle-aged fan of the unsuccessful Washington Senators baseball team. His obsession with baseball is driving a wedge between him and his wife, Meg—a problem shared by many other wives of Senators supporters. Meg leads them in lamenting their husbands' fixation with the sport ("Six Months Out of Every Year").

After seeing his team lose yet again, Joe rashly declares that he would sell his soul to the devil to see his team beat the Yankees.  No sooner has he spoken than the devil appears before him in the guise of a suave conman, Applegate.  Applegate claims he can go one better—he can restore Joe's youth, making him the player who wins them the pennant. Joe agrees, but persuades Applegate to give him an escape clause.  Applegate declares that Joe can back out, but only the day before the last game of the season—afterwards, his soul belongs to the devil.

Joe bids an emotional farewell to a sleeping Meg ("Goodbye Old Girl"), after which Applegate transforms him into a dashing young man, now called Joe Hardy.

The next day, the Senators' practice is a fiasco. Their manager, Ben Van Buren, gives the team a rousing pep talk ("Heart"). Applegate arrives and, introducing himself as a scout, presents his new discovery—Joe Hardy from Hannibal, Missouri. Joe promptly hits baseball after baseball out of the park in an impromptu batting practice. As he is signed to a Senators contract, female sportswriter Gloria Thorpe plans to quickly get Joe into the public eye ("Shoeless Joe from Hannibal, Mo.").

With tremendous home runs and game-saving catches, Joe leads the Senators on a long winning streak into pennant contention and becomes a national hero. Joe misses Meg dreadfully, however, and keeps sneaking back to his old neighborhood for a glimpse of her.  Realising this could ruin his plans, Applegate summons his demonic right-hand girl, Lola, a seductress who was once known as the ugliest woman in her territory, but sold her soul to Applegate in exchange for eternal youth and beauty. She is ordered to make Joe forget his wife, a task Lola is confident she can carry out ("A Little Brains, A Little Talent").

Joe succeeds in getting close to Meg by renting a room in his old house; Meg is unaware of his baseball stardom. Applegate and Lola corner Joe in the baseball team's locker room, where Lola confidently tries to seduce Joe ("Whatever Lola Wants"). But she has her first failure—Joe dearly loves Meg, and does not fall for Lola's tempting ways. Applegate angrily banishes Lola.

By the end of the season, the Senators are on the verge of overtaking the Yankees, so the Washington fans hold a lavish tribute ("Who's Got the Pain?"). Gloria, having returned from Hannibal, Missouri, where no residents remember a Joe Hardy, confronts Applegate about the player's true identity. Applegate implies that Joe is actually Shifty McCoy, a corrupt minor leaguer playing under a pseudonym. By the end of the tribute, newspapers arrive accusing Joe of being Shifty. He must meet with the baseball commissioner for a hearing or else be thrown out of baseball—on the day he plans to switch back to being Joe Boyd.

At the hearing, Meg and her female neighbors arrive as material witnesses, attesting to Joe's honesty and falsely claiming he grew up with them in Hannibal. The commissioner acquits Joe, but as everyone celebrates, midnight strikes and Joe realizes he is doomed.

Applegate has planned for the Senators to lose the pennant on the last day of the season, resulting in thousands of heart attacks, nervous breakdowns and suicides of Yankee-haters across the country. He is reminded of his other evil misdeeds throughout history ("Those Were the Good Old Days").

Following the hearing, Lola lets Joe know she's drugged Applegate so that he will sleep through the last game. They commiserate over their condemned situation at a nightclub ("Two Lost Souls").

Late the next afternoon, Applegate awakens to find the Senators/Yankees game well underway. Realizing Lola has tricked him—and worse, that Lola has actually fallen in love with Joe—he turns her back into an ugly hag.

They arrive at the ballpark by the ninth inning, the Senators up by a run. With two outs, one of the Yankee sluggers hits a long drive to the outfield. As he backs up to make the catch, Applegate impulsively switches Joe Hardy back into Joe Boyd in full view of the stadium. Now paunchy and middle-aged, Joe makes a final lunge at the ball and catches it. Washington wins the pennant! As his teammates celebrate and fans storm the field, an unrecognized Joe escapes from the ballpark.

Late that night, as the public wonders why Joe Hardy has disappeared, Joe Boyd meekly returns to his house. A tearful Meg hugs him and they sing to each other ("There's Something about an Empty Chair"). Applegate materializes once again and offers Joe the chance to resume being Joe Hardy in time for the World Series; he also makes Lola young and beautiful again to tempt Joe.  Joe ignores him, and a tantrum-throwing Applegate vanishes for good.

####Darling Lili####
The film is set in northern France during World War I, where British pilots have polite dog-fights with their German rivals.

On the ground, Lili Smith is a beloved English musical star, much admired by French and British pilots. She mixes with them at Cafe Can-Can. One American, Major Larrabee, has a particular interest in her. He organises a gypsy serenade outside her window and a night-time champagne picnic. However, she  is actually a German spy. She starts asking questions about his squadron. Lili's uncle, who is in constant contact, is Colonel Kurt Von Ruger, a more obvious German spy and her main contact to pass information to the German authorities.

Larrabee showers her with red roses, takes her to art galleries and takes her on a row-boat. Although she is tricking him, she starts to have real feelings of love. Ironically, the French authorities think Larrabee is the spy and ask Lili to keep an eye on him. In a restaurant a fellow pilot, Lt. Carstairs, lets slip that Larrabee is also having an affair with Crepe Suzette. Lili thinks that Operation Crepe Suzette is a military plan and reports it to her uncle.

The French authorities (Duvalle and Liggett) start to spy on both Larrabee and Lili. Lili deduces that Crepe Suzette is a woman. They go to Lili's bedroom with he French spying through the window. Lili accuses him of calling her "Suzette". He has actually said nothing but thinking he has, says that he said "My Pet". To escape his infidelity, he then says "Operation Crepe Suzette" is a military operation and gives her the made up details of the plan. Lili decides to believe the lie.

When one of the French tells her that Crepe Suzette is a girl in a burlesque show, she goes to weigh up the competition. She decides to introduce striptease into her own usually straight-laced show. When Larrabee tells the true story of his encounter with the Red Baron, she mocks him.

Lili gets Larrabee and Suzette arrested for treason. While Lili is awarded the Legion of Honour at a huge ceremony, Suzette happily tells the authorities all she knows. Lili's maid and chauffeur (who are having their own affair) discuss that Lili is "one step ahead of a firing squad". The maid tells her the news from the paper: that Suzette said that Larrabee had done nothing and was in love with "another woman" (i.e. Lili).

An assassin (Kraus) is sent to kill Lili but fails. She goes to the authorities to confess in an attempt to save Larrabee from the firing squad. They think it is just a romantic gesture and don't believe her. Her uncle plans an escape to Switzerland. They catch a train but Kraus tracks them down. However, Kraus is killed when a German squadron attacks the train. The British squadron (including Larrabee) fight them off. He sees Lili on he ground and tips his wing in salute.

The war ends and Lili is singing in Geneva. In the final song, Lili sings on a dark stage surrounded by pilots looking on from the wings. Larrabee comes out and kisses her and the crowd cheers.

####A Date with Judy####
In Santa Barbara, California, teenager Judy Foster (Jane Powell) and her friends are rehearsing songs for their high school dance when the student director of the show, Carol Pringle (Elizabeth Taylor), complains that the songs, as performed, are too "juvenile." Carol, a senior at the school and a renowned snob, demonstrates how the music should be played, and gives the song a more seductive flavor.

Later, Carol tells Judy that famous band leader Xavier Cugat will be the guest of honor at the dance, and urges her to wear her pink dress for the occasion. When Judy learns that her sweetheart, Ogden "Oogie" Pringle (Scotty Beckett), who is Carol's brother, has decided not to take her to the dance, she becomes infuriated and vows to break off her friendship with him. Dejected, Judy visits Pop's Soda Fountain, where she meets Pop's handsome nephew, Stephen Andrews (Robert Stack). Judy falls instantly in love with the older Stephen, and he agrees to take her to the dance as a favor to Pop. At the dance, Oogie sees Judy with Stephen and becomes jealous. While Oogie tries to divert Judy's attention away from Stephen, Stephen meets Carol and believes he has found "the most beautiful girl in Santa Barbara."

After the dance, Carol tries to help Oogie and Judy get back together by telling Judy that she has convinced her wealthy father to give Judy and Oogie a program on his radio station. Meanwhile, Rosita Conchellas (Carmen Miranda), a dance instructor, secretly meets with Judy's father Melvin (Wallace Beery) to teach him the rumba, which he hopes to dance on his wedding anniversary. When Oogie tries to make amends with Judy at a dinner arranged by Carol, a misunderstanding arises that leads to his being further alienated from his sweetheart. Judy, however, shows no signs of a broken heart, and later tells her father that she is in love with Stephen and that she intends to marry him.

When Judy discovers Rosita's skirt caught in the closet door of her father's office, she incorrectly concludes that her father is having an affair. Determined to save her parents' marriage, Judy runs home and gives her mother Dora (Selena Royle) a beauty makeover to make her more appealing to her father. Oogie, in his tireless determination to reunite with Judy, tries to serenade her, but another misunderstanding arises and the plan is spoiled. Judy becomes convinced that her father is planning to leave her mother when she and Carol see him escorting Rosita to his car. Carol and Judy later accuse Rosita of breaking up Judy's home. Rosita misunderstands the accusation and believes that they are talking about Cugat, her fiancé. When Judy and Carol finally realize their mistake, they apologize to Rosita. Judy then reconciles with Oogie after she learns that Carol is in love with Stephen, and Stephen agrees to resume his romance with Carol in a few years, when she is older.

####The Desert Song####
The original plot is more-or-less adhered to, with some significant alterations. Benny is depicted as a comic Bob Hope-like coward, but not as a sissy. El Khobar's alter ego is that of a mild-mannered (but not squeamish) Latin tutor and anthropologist, whom Birabeau (Ray Collins) hires to keep Margot (Kathryn Grayson) from flirting with his regiment.

The conclusion to the film is slightly different, since El Khobar (Gordon MacRae) is not Birabeau's son here. After the final battle, the General's soldiers realize that El Khobar and the Riffs were actually on their side and helped in preventing an uprising. When one asks, "And where is El Khobar?", MacRae, as the professor, enters carrying El Khobar's clothes, and quietly announces "El Khobar is dead". Margot is grief-stricken, but Birabeau, suspecting the truth, mischievously says that they can all be grateful to "the ghost of El Khobar", winking as he says this. As soon as they are alone, MacRae begins to sing the song "One Alone" to Margot, making her realize that her boring Latin tutor and the dashing El Khobar are one and the same. She rushes into his arms.

One song not by Romberg, "Gay Parisienne", written for the 1943 film version of the show, is retained for this film.

####Down Among the Sheltering Palms####
World War II is coming to an end, but rather than being sent home, Capt. Bill Willoby and Lt. Frank Schmidt, along with their unit, are assigned to Midi Island, formerly held by the Japanese. They receive a friendly welcome there from King Jilouili and many native girls.

Willoby declares fraternization with the natives off-limits, which becomes awkward when the King presents him with beautiful Rozouila as a token of his appreciation. Rozouila is to be the captain's wife.

Rev. and Mrs. Edgett have arrived with niece Diana Forrester, who is hired by Schmidt to be his secretary. Willoby goes to the reverend for advice and is told to keep Rozouila in a separate quarters at all time.

Major Curwin visits the isle next, accompanied by Angela Toland, an attractive correspondent. Angela immediately makes a play for Willoby, observed by two jealous women, Rozouila and Diana, who are both relieved when Willoby rejects her advances. An angry Angela writes a false story claiming the captain is romantically involved with a native girl, which causes Willoby's men to turn against him.

A colonel investigates the news story and Willoby could face a court-martial. But a way is figured out for the captain to give Rozouila back to her island boyfriend with no loss of honor. Angela's story is revealed to be a lie. Midi is reclassified as a "friendly island" by the military, permitting fraternization by the soldiers. Willoby now loves Diana, though, while a chastised Angela has her eye on Lt. Schmidt.

####The Duke Is Tops####
Duke Davis (Cooper) is a stage-show promoter in love with Ethel Andrews (Horne), a popular singer in his company dubbed "the Bronze Venus".  Duke finds out that big-time promoters from New York City want to propel Ethel into the big leagues, but Ethel, out of loyalty and love for Duke, refuses to leave his small-time show. Duke, in a selfless act, orchestrates a deception to force Ethel to leave his show in order to better her career. However, the loss of the Bronze Venus causes Duke's own career to collapse and he soon finds himself working on a travelling medicine show where he goes from town to town, introducing a series of specialty musical acts and helping to sell Doc Dorando's all-purpose elixir. But when he hears that Ethel's New York gig is a flop, Duke goes to New York, where he is reunited with her. Soon after, Duke combines his stage show, the medicine show and Ethel's singing into a top nightclub act.

####Escape to Paradise####
Jaded playboy Richard Fleming travels to the South American nation of Rosarita.  Through his motorcycle riding guide Roberto he discovers true love and a career as a Yerba mate exporter.

####The Fantasticks####
Amos Babcock Bellamy (Joel Grey) and Ben Hucklebee (Brad Sullivan) scheme to get their respective children, Luisa (Jean Louisa Kelly) and Matt (Joey McIntyre), to fall in love. Knowing they will resist their fathers' interference, the two men use reverse psychology and fabricate a feud, building a wall between their houses and forbidding their children to speak to each other. When their plan works, they enlist the aid of El Gallo (Jonathon Morris), the proprietor of a traveling carnival, to put an end to their supposed disagreement in a manner which will not reveal their deception.

El Gallo pretends to kidnap Luisa with the help of his troupe, which includes elderly Shakespearean actor Henry Albertson (Barnard Hughes) and his mute sidekick Mortimer (Teller), and arranges for Matt to rescue her. The couple settles into what they anticipate will be domestic bliss, but through the eyes of El Gallo and company they see the harsh realities of the world, and their innocent romanticism is replaced by a more mature understanding of love.

####Fashions of 1934####
When the Manhattan investment firm of Sherwood Nash (William Powell) goes broke, he joins forces with his partner Snap (Frank McHugh) and fashion designer Lynn Mason (Bette Davis) to provide discount shops with cheap copies of Paris couture dresses. Lynn discovers that top designer Oscar Baroque (Reginald Owen) gets his inspiration from old costume books, and she begins to create designs the same way, signing each one with the name of an established designer.

Sherwood realizes Baroque's companion, the alleged Grand Duchess Alix (Verree Teasdale), is really Mabel McGuire, his old friend from Hoboken, New Jersey, and threatens to reveal her identity unless she convinces Baroque to design the costumes of a musical revue in which she will star. Baroque buys a supply of ostrich feathers from Sherwood's crony Joe Ward (Hugh Herbert) and starts a fashion rage.

Sherwood then opens Maison Elegance, a new Paris fashion house that's a great success until Baroque discovers Lynn is forging his sketches. He has him arrested, but Sherwood convinces the police to give him time to straighten out the situation. He crashes Baroque and Alix's wedding and promises to humiliate the designer by publicly revealing who his bride really is unless Baroque withdraws the charges. The designer agrees and purchases Maison Elegance from Sherwood, who assures Lynn he'll never get involved in another illegal activity if she returns to America with him.

####The Fighting Temptations####
In 1980, a young boy named Darrin Hill (Cuba Gooding Jr.) and his mother, MaryAnn (Faith Evans), are run out of town after MaryAnn was soon discovered to be singing secular music when she also sings in a church choir. Aunt Sally (Ann Nesby) attempts to defend MaryAnn, but it fails. The church's cowardly pastor, Reverend Lewis (Wendell Pierce), is too afraid of the other church members to let her stay. MaryAnn and Darrin are last seen saying goodbye to Aunt Sally, as they sadly wave goodbye with each other. In 2003, Darrin has grown up to become a successful advertising executive in New York City with a bad habit of lying. Darrin's only true friend and secretary, Rosa Lopez (Lourdes Benedicto), does a good job at keeping his credit problems under control. However, Darrin has achieved so much under false pretenses and faked his college degree and high school diploma. Darrin also lied about being the son of a congressman, and his lies soon catch up with him and get him in trouble with his paranoid boss (Dakin Matthews) and Darrin loses his job. After being tracked down by a private investigator, Darrin soon finds out that Aunt Sally has died.

Darrin returns to his hometown of Monte Carlo, Georgia and looks back on both comical and heartbreaking memories of MaryAnn and the experiences they had together. When Darrin arrives, he finds a new friendship in Lucious (Mike Epps), the town's happy-go-lucky cab driver. Lucious is obsessed with women's booties and even proclaims himself a "Booty expert" and "Bootyologist". At Aunt Sally's funeral, Shirley Caesar makes a cameo appearance as a character who was an old friend of Sally and sings at the funeral. After the funeral, Darrin soon learns from the Reverend that Aunt Sally had stated in her will that he must direct the church choir and enter the annual "Gospel Explosion" competition and win the prize money of $10,000 and Aunt Sally's stock in the company that produces the show which is currently worth $150,000.

Later, Paulina reveals that Darrin forgot to enter the choir into the auditions. Luckily, the audition judge, Luther Washington (Faizon Love), who is also the town's prison warden, lets them perform in a show for his prisoners when the booked act fails to arrive. Thanks to Lilly's beautiful looks and voice, the choir performs well and Washington lets them into the competition. Washington also lets Darrin use three convicts who can sing well. The three convicts are Bee-Z Briggs, Lightfoot, and Mr. Johnson (T-Bone, Chris Cole, and Montell Jordan). After weeks of success, the choir has become more popular, more people have joined the church and the choir. Darrin also begins dating Lilly. However, Paulina takes a message for Darrin in a phone call from Rosa and learns of his past troubles, and intends on exposing him the first chance she gets. The next afternoon at a church barbecue, Paulina deliberately reveals Darrin's secrets with a polite demeanor, in order to make herself look innocent. Lilly is furious and heartbroken about this and the people who he promised money to begin to panic, and tells Darrin that she doesn't care what he does, she was only using him because he was using her.

Since Lilly wants nothing to do with him, Darrin decides to quit and returns to New York, where he has been offered his job back. However, Darrin goes back and gets a new condo and a promotion, and comes to realize that none of these things mean anything without Lilly and the choir. Darrin quits his job and returns to Monte Carlo to reconcile with Lilly. Darrin and Lilly recruits Lucious and the Reverend and all of them rush down to the Gospel Explosion to join the choir for the performance. When Darrin and Lilly arrive, they manage to convince the others to vote Paulina out of the choir, giving Darrin his position as director back. Before their performance begins, Darrin tells Lilly that she inspired him to name the choir "The Fighting Temptations". After an outstanding performance, the choir wins the competition, but before ending his acceptance speech, Darrin surprises Lilly with an unexpected marriage proposal, to which she accepts. Eighteen months later, the two are shown to be happily married with a baby of their own.

####The Fleet's In####
When unassuming sailor Casey Kirby goes backstage for a famous actress' autograph, he winds up kissing her for a publicity photo. The photo circulates, and Kirby earns a reputation as a ladies man among his fellow sailors. They bet on the chances of him kissing the stand-offish star "The Countess" of the Swingland club during a four-day leave in San Francisco. When they arrive in San Francisco, Kirby attempts to win the bet and finds that he has earnestly fallen in love with the Countess and wants to marry her. Their romance is complicated by the Countess finding out about the bet and assuming that his advances are only to win the bet, although she finds that she has fallen in love with him.

####The Florodora Girl####
It’s 1899 and “Florodora” is the hottest show on Broadway.  Carriages line up around the block waiting for valet service.  While the music and drama are a draw, most male patrons are there to see the beautiful Florodora chorus girls. Some have seen the show a dozen times. Daisy (Marion Davies) is one of the Florodora girls and a member of show’s female sextet. She is also the only original Florodora girl. The other female members of the cast have left to marry one of the wealthy male patrons. Daisy’s turn is overdue. She’s willing to marry, as long as he’s the right fellow, and for Daisy that fellow is Jack Vibart (Lawrence Gray).  Her friends, Fanny and Maud (Ilka Chase and Vivien Oakland) - newer members of the female sextet - advise Daisy that the best way to attract a wealthy suitor is to “be difficult” and play hard-to-get. But when she shares her interest in Jack Vibart, Fanny and Maud are patently against him.  Jack Vibrant has no interest in marrying a girl like Daisy, they warn her.  He eats chorus girls for lunch. Ironically, a short while later, Daisy receives a huge bouquet of flowers from Jack along with a request to join him in his carriage. She’s thrilled at first, but eventually heeds the advice of her friends and rejects the bouquet and his offer. Instead, Daisy reluctantly accepts an offer from her friend George Smith (George Chandler) to ride on his tandem bike.

George is a poor cigar shop worker who would gladly marry Daisy. Unfortunately, while Daisy values his friendship, she does not love George.  George takes Daisy on his bike to the tavern to fetch her father (Jed Prouty), who is a bit drunk. Daisy takes Dad home to their small tenement in the poorest part of town. Once home, Dad offers her a drink and the pair chat while Daisy thumbs through a magazine. She stops on photo of Jack Vibart and his horse Firebird. Her father admires the horse, but Daisy admires Jack.  Daisy’s father has seen Jack at the racetrack and notes he’s decent enough for an upper crust fellow. Dad also won a whopping $18 betting on Jack’s horse in the Kentucky Derby.

A few days later, Daisy and the other Florodora girls go to the beach. The women don flamboyant turn-of the century bathing dresses which cover most of their bodies. They hope, however, that their bare calves might attract a few wealthy prospects. The women join the men for a swim and Daisy strays far from shore.  She notices Jack swimming nearby, pretends to struggle in the water, and screams for help. Her stunt causes Jack to believe he has rescued her.  “How can I ever thank you?” she feigns. Later, Daisy and her friends enjoy a picnic lunch where Daisy leads a group of male singers in a humorous medley of songs popular at the turn of the nineteenth century. Her wild exaggerated conducting, silly dancing and vocal interventions are a hit with the crowd. After the song, Daisy and Jack find each other on a large outdoor swing.  The pair flirt while swinging higher and higher until the rope breaks sending the couple through the air and into a nearby bush.

January 2, 1900, the day of a big football game - Yale versus Columbia! "Boola Boola" – Yale’s football song – is heard as the crowd gathers. Some stand in front while others view from behind atop horse drawn carriages.  There are no forward passes in this nascent form of the gridiron game. One team uses a moving-v-formation like a flock of birds surrounding the ball carrier.  Next the team hoists the ball carrier over the defenders like a sack of flour.  Jack is among the carriage viewers near Fanny and Maud. Daisy is simply too busy with numerous suiters to attend the game with him they inform him. Jack is disappointed but satisfied until he spots George and Daisy arriving on the tandem bike. He feels snubbed – Daisy rejected him to come to the game with George.  Daisy dismounts the bike and enthusiastically gives a cheer for both teams.

Later at the game Jack spots Harry Fontaine (Sam Hardy) – a crooked gambler who had a row with Jack when Jack’s horse won the Kentucky Derby. Harry spots George and Daisy calls George over to speak with him.  George leaves Daisy to speak with Harry, and after a short chat, Harry offers George a drink from his flask.  George accepts and quickly becomes drunk.  With George out of the way, Harry makes advances on Daisy. Daisy protests and soon Jack intervenes and offers to take Daisy home himself.  Daisy happily accepts and leaves with Jack.

On the carriage ride home Daisy learns Jack wanted to take her to the football game but Fanny and Maud intervened.  Daisy confesses that Fanny and Maud have exaggerated Daisy’s romantic prospects. The two flirt and grow more in love until Jack promises to spend every day with Daisy. Later they drive past an elegant older lady and a young girl.  Jack tells Daisy the beautiful lady is his mother, and the young woman is just a girl he knows. When he arrives home, Jack speaks with his mother (Nance O’Neil) about Daisy.  She wants him to stop his philandering with chorus girls and marry Constance (Jane Keithley) – the pretty young girl spotted earlier in the carriage who is revealed to be Jack’s fiancé. Jack promises his mother that he will marry Constance in June – the month for weddings.  “What about the chorus girl?” his mother asks. “She is charming, but a man in my position doesn’t take a girl like her seriously,” he responds reassuringly.

Despite is assurance to his mother, Jack and Daisy continue to spend time together, falling deeper in love. One sunny afternoon Jack takes Daisy for a ride on the latest invention – a horseless carriage.  There are a few fits and starts, but Jack manages to keep the machine running.  Later the couple share a romantic meal and Jack sings lovingly to Daisy – “You’re just my kind of girl”.  Later Jack offers Daisy a jeweled bracelet and suggests she should let him pay for her to live in a nice apartment close to his home.  She’s offended by his offer believing he intends to keep her as a mistress. The pair quarrel and Daisy storms off.

Back at the Florodora theater, Daisy informs Fanny and Maud that she wants nothing to do with Jack Vibart. Later, Rumblesham “Rummy” (Claud Allister), a refined English gentleman, invites Daisy to a fashionable party – a society ball hosted by the Commodore (Robert Bolder) and his wife.  Daisy would love to go but has nothing to wear.  Fanny and Maude come to her rescue and gather an elegant but over-the-top dress from the theater’s wardrobe collection and alter it to fit Daisy.  Daisy and Rummy arrive at the ball and Daisy does her best to mingle with society. Unfortunately, the back of her dress comes unbuttoned near her rear.  Mr. De Boer (Walter Catlett), a kind older gentleman, notices her dress, helps button her up, and offers to help by giving her a warning “Johny’s out” if it happens again.  Of course, it’s not long before Jack turns up and wants to speak with Daisy, but she refuses to talk with him.  Daisy dances and tries to avoid Jack when her dress fails again. Fortunately, Mr. De Boer is there to help as promised.

Later Daisy spots Jack and Constance dancing and learns from Rummy that they are engaged to be married.  Daisy finally speaks with Jack, and he confesses that Daisy is the only girl he loves.  He doesn’t want to marry Constance but is only doing so to please his mother who values Constance’s wealth.  Jack promises to leave Constance and marry Daisy.  He shares his plan to bet his family’s fortune on his racehorse so he can afford his own business.  He places the bet. Firebird runs well, leads the race until the end when he finishes second. Jack loses his family’s fortune.

Jack does not want to worry Daisy about his financial misfortune as he and Daisy celebrate their engagement with the cast of the Florodora. She says how proud she is to be a Florodora girl and invites them all to the wedding.  Later, Mrs. Vibart invites Daisy to her home. Daisy is delighted to speak with her future mother-in-law until she learns that Jack has lost most of the family’s fortune.  Daisy promises Mrs. Vibart that she and Jack will manage. Mrs. Vibart, however, asks Daisy to give up Jack so he can marry Constance, whose family wealth would solve the Vibart’s financial woes.  Daisy agrees – reassuring Mrs. Vibart that Jack would never be happy married to a girl like Daisy.

Back at the theater, Lulu, one of the other Florodora girls, discusses Daisy’s broken engagement and claims Daisy dumped Jack because he’s broke.  Fanny invites Lulu outside to tell her something important while Maud guards the door.  The pair step outside and screaming is heard. When they return it’s clear Fanny has beaten Lulu.  Fanny and Maud walk away to comfort Daisy.  Later, Jack begs to speak with Daisy, but she refuses.  Instead, she goes to a slumming party at the bowery with Harry Fontaine – the gambler who accosted her at the football game.  Harry encourages Daisy to drink, but she is reluctant and melancholy. However, when she spots Jack entering, she lights up, grabs the bottle, jumps on the table, and pretends to be having a grand time.  Jack confronts Daisy, asks why she is acting that way and pleads for her to listen. She rebukes him harshly saying she was only interested in his money.  When he reluctantly leaves, she breaks down in tears.

Four months later, the Florodora girls are offstage preparing to perform.  Fanny and Maud tell Daisy they are engaged and show off their rings. Daisy also learns that Jack has launched a successful business selling horseless carriages.  The show continues and the sextet enters the stage with a male sextet and perform “Tell Me Pretty Maiden” from Florodora. Daisy happily sings but is stunned when she spots Jack in the audience. She is hopeful but unsure what to do. When she looks again his seat is empty – Jack is gone.  After the first chorus Daisy finds Jack offstage where he pleads with her to listen to him.  When performance continues, Jack follows Daisy onstage and takes the place of one of the male singers.  Daisy continues to perform, and the song lyrics are incorporated into their confrontation. Jack confesses his love and asks Daisy to marry him as she sings the final line – “I must love someone, and it might as well be you.”  A delighted Jack assumes Daisy has accepted his marriage proposal.  Once offstage, Daisy is fuming and worries his antics will get her fired.  Jack persists and carries Daisy away. “I must finish the show!” she protests. Her protests continue until Jack takes her outside where Jack’s mother is waiting in a horse drawn sleigh. Mrs. Vibart smiles and tells Daisy, “My dear, this time we have come for you.”  Daisy is finally accepted by the Vibart family as the sleigh carries the happy trio away.

####Flower Drum Song####
A young woman named Mei Li emigrates from China to Chinatown, San Francisco as an illegal immigrant with her father. After landing, the Lis seek the address of Madam Fong, the mother of Sammy Fong, to whom Mei Li has been promised in an arranged marriage. While asking where to find Madam Fong, Mei Li performs a flower drum song to earn money ("A Hundred Million Miracles"). Sammy is the owner of a night club, the Celestial Gardens (inspired by the actual Forbidden City nightclub) and already is romantically involved with his leading showgirl Linda Low. The Lis arrive at the Celestial Gardens during a show ("Fan Tan Fannie").

Sammy does his best to dissuade Mei Li from marrying him, introducing her to Madame Liang, the sister-in-law of Master Wang. Liang and Wang bemoan the gap between immigrants and their offspring ("The Other Generation") as Master Wang's younger son Wang San gives his own take on the gap to some younger children. Dissolving the marriage contract is harder than either imagined. Master Wang is persuaded by Madame Liang to allow Mei Li to fall in love naturally with Master Wang's eldest son Wang Ta, and the Lis move in with Master Wang. However, Wang Ta is dazzled by the charms of Linda, who flirts with him ("I Enjoy Being a Girl"). He asks her to go on a date, and she convinces him to give her his fraternity pin to symbolize they are "going steady" during the date.

When Mei Li sees Wang Ta sneaking back in after the date, she mistakes his friendly greeting as a welcome to the household and starts to warm to America ("I Am Going to Like It Here"). Linda plans to use Wang Ta to force a commitment from Sammy Fong out of jealousy, but Sammy gets wind of her scheme when Linda attends a party to celebrate both Wang Ta's graduation from university and Madame Liang's graduation from citizenship classes. Madame Liang compares the citizens of the U.S. to a mix of different ingredients ("Chop Suey"). At the party, Linda has Frankie Wing, the club emcee, pose as her brother to grant permission for Linda to marry Wang Ta. Mei Li, hearing this, becomes discouraged, and Ta and his father argue over his marriage plans. Ta argues that he is old enough to make his own decisions, but the father says that he will be the one to let Ta know when he is old enough.


At the New Year's Parade, Linda rides on a float and sings about Grant Avenue, Chinatown's "western street with eastern manners" ("Grant Avenue"). Sammy, in an effort to keep Linda from marrying Wang Ta, invites Wang Ta and his family to Celestial Gardens, where they see Frankie Wing recall girls he has known ("Gliding Through My Memoree") and Linda's nightclub act ("Fan Tan Fannie"). Wang Ta is shocked at her performance. He leaves, distraught, accompanied by the seamstress Helen Chao, his friend since childhood. Helen also grew up in the U.S. and deeply loves Wang Ta. Ta becomes drunk in his misery over Linda, and Helen ends up letting him stay for the night in her apartment, where she declares her unrequited love ("Love, Look Away").

In the morning, Mei Li comes to deliver a burned coat for Helen to mend and becomes distressed when she discovers Wang Ta's clothing in Helen's kitchen. When Wang Ta wakes up (seconds after Mei Li leaves), he still does not notice Helen's affections, even as she pleads for him to stay, and he leaves quickly. He goes to speak with Mei Li, now realizing that she is a better match for him than Linda Low ("You Are Beautiful"), only to have Mei Li reject him, saying that she once loved him, but not anymore.

She and her father leave Master Wang's house and pursue the marriage contract between Mei Li and Sammy Fong. Sammy has proposed to Linda, who daydreams about wedded life ("Sunday"). Unfortunately, now that Mei Li is pursuing Sammy again, he and Linda will be unable to marry as the contract with Mei Li is binding. Sammy enumerates his many faults ("Don't Marry Me") in a last-ditch attempt to convince Mei Li to break the contract. Before the wedding, Wang Ta goes to see Mei Li, and they both realize that they are deeply in love with one another. They agree to try to come up with a way to get Mei Li out of her marriage contract.

The day of the wedding, before she is to sip from a goblet (which would seal her marriage to Sammy), Mei Li declares that, because she entered the United States illegally, the marriage contract is null and void (which she learned from a TV Western she watched on the late show the previous night). Wang Ta can marry Mei Li, and Sammy decides to marry Linda, resulting in a double wedding.

####Flying Down to Rio####
Composer Roger Bond (Gene Raymond) and his orchestra are appearing in Miami, with vocalist Honey Hales (Ginger Rogers). Despite the warnings of accordionist and assistant bandleader Fred Ayres (Fred Astaire), Roger is attracted to the beautiful and flirtatious Belinha (Dolores del Río) in the audience. He leaves the bandstand to pursue her.

Dona Elena (Blanche Friderici), Belinha's chaperone, is informed of this, and arranges for Roger and the band to be fired. But Roger pursues Belinha to Brazil, and organizes an engagement for the band at the Hotel Atlântico in Rio de Janeiro, unaware that the hotel is owned by Belinha's father (Walter Walker). Roger persuades Belinha to allow him to fly her there in his private plane, which runs into trouble inflight, forcing a landing on an apparently deserted island. Under the moonlight, she falls into his arms, while admitting to him that she is already engaged.

In Rio, Roger informs his good friend Julio (Raul Roulien) that he has fallen in love, but finds out that Belinha is engaged to Julio. During rehearsals for the Hotel's opening (a brief bit of Astaire tap), Fred is told by police that the hotel lacks an entertainment license. When Roger spots a plane overhead, he comes up with the idea of strapping dancing girls to planes, with Fred leading the band and Honey and Julio leading the planes. The show is a great success and the hotel's future guaranteed. Julio gives Belinha up to Roger while Fred and Honey celebrate.<ref name="Billman">cite book
| last = Billman
| first = Larry
| title = Fred Astaire – A Bio-bibliography
| publisher = Greenwood Press
| year = 1997
| location = Connecticut
| isbn = 0-313-29010-5

####Footlight Serenade####
Tommy Lundy is an arrogant champion boxer who is hired by Broadway promoter Bruce McKay to star in a stage act, which will include singing, dancing, a comedian called Slap and a boxing exhibition. Tommy makes sure his girlfriend, singer Estelle Evans, gets the female lead in the role, but he falls in love with dancer Pat Lambert, who becomes Estelle's understudy.

Pat is engaged to Bill Smith, who ends up with a small part in the show. They get married but keep it a secret so as not to irk Tommy and cause him to quit the show. Estelle because jealous of Tommy's attentions to her and tips him off that Pat and Bill were seen checking into a hotel.

During the boxing portion of the stage act, Tommy begins punching Bill for real. In between blows, Bill explains that he and Pat are now husband and wife. Tommy accepts this graciously, then he and Bill both take turns smacking Slap instead.

####Footloose####
Chicago native Ren McCormack and his mother Ethel move to the small town of Bomont to live with Ren's aunt and uncle. While attending church, Ren meets Reverend Shaw Moore, his wife Vi, and daughter Ariel. Ariel recklessly endangers her life by rebelling against Shaw's strict religious nature, greatly annoying her friends and boyfriend Chuck Cranston.

At school, Ren befriends Willard Hewitt, and learns the town council has banned dancing and rock music within the town boundary. He soon begins to fall for Ariel. After he and Chuck insult each other, Ren is challenged to a game of chicken involving tractors, which he wins when his
shoelace becomes stuck, preventing him from jumping. Distrusting Ren, Shaw forbids Ariel from seeing him after she shows interest in him.

Wanting to show his friends the joy and freedom of dance, Ren drives Ariel, Willard, and her best friend Rusty to a country bar 100 miles away from Bomont. Once there, Willard is unable to dance and gets into a jealous fight with a man who dances with Rusty. On the drive home, they cross a bridge where Ariel describes how her older brother died in a car accident while driving under the influence of alcohol after a night of dancing. The devastating accident prompted Shaw to persuade the town council to enact strict anti-liquor, anti-drug, and anti-dance laws. Ariel begins to defy Shaw's authority at home. Ren decides to challenge the anti-dancing ordinance so that the high school can hold a senior prom.

Willard is embarrassed he can't dance with Rusty, so Ren gives him lessons after school hours. Chuck confronts Ariel about her feelings towards Ren behind the bleachers. Provoked by his insults, Ariel throws the first punch, to which Chuck retaliates with a backhand slap, knocking her to the ground. Ariel retaliates by getting a pole and smashing Chuck's pickup. He grabs her to prevent further damage, but she continues to fight – it only ends when Chuck incapacitates her with a final punch, telling her that he "was through with her anyway".

Ren helps Ariel clean herself up before going home, cementing their relationship. Later that night, a brick with the words "Burn in Hell" is thrown through the window of Ren's house, causing his uncle to criticize his outspoken behavior. Ethel reveals that though Ren's actions cost her her job, he should stand up for what he feels is right.

With Ariel's help, Ren goes before the town council and reads several Bible verses to cite scriptural significance of dancing as a way to rejoice, exercise, and celebrate. Although Shaw is moved, the council votes against Ren's proposal, but Vi, who supports the movement, explains to Shaw that he cannot be everyone's father and that he is hardly being one to Ariel.

Despite further discussion with Ren about his own family losses and Ariel's opening up about her own past, disclosing that she has had sexual relations, Shaw cannot bring himself to change his stance. The next day, Shaw sees members of his congregation burning library books that they claim endanger the town's youth. Realizing the situation has become uncontrollable, Shaw stops the book-burners, chastises them, and sends them home.

The following Sunday, Shaw asks his congregation to pray for the high school students putting on the prom, set up at a grain mill just outside the town limits. On prom night, Shaw and Vi listen from outside the mill, dancing for the first time in years. Chuck and his friends arrive and attack Willard; Ren arrives in time to even the odds and knocks out Chuck. Ren, Ariel, Willard, and Rusty rejoin the party and happily dance the night away.

####Footloose####
After a long night of partying, an intoxicated Bobby Moore and his friends are killed when their car collides head-on with a truck on a bridge on their way home to the town of Bomont, Georgia. This prompts his father Shaw Moore, the town reverend, to persuade the city council to pass several draconian laws and ordinances, one of which bans all unsupervised dancing within city limits.

Three years later, Boston-raised teenager Ren McCormack moves to Bomont to live with his uncle Wes Warnicker, aunt Lulu, and cousins Sarah and Amy after his mother's death from leukemia and his father's desertion. Upon arrival, Ren befriends fellow Bomont High senior Willard Hewitt, who explains the ban on dancing.

He soon begins to be attracted to Shaw's rebellious daughter Ariel, who is dating dirt-track driver Chuck Cranston. After Chuck insults him, Ren ends up in a race involving buses and wins despite his inability to drive one and almost getting killed. Shaw mistrusts Ren and forbids Ariel from ever seeing him again. Ren and his classmates want to do away with the law and have a senior prom. He also teaches Willard how to dance.

After a while, Ariel begins to fall for Ren and dumps Chuck, resulting in a fight between them. Later in church, Shaw finds out about it and demands Ren's arrest, but Ariel tells him that he can't blame everything on Ren like he did with Bobby. She then reveals that she lost her virginity, prompting Shaw to beg for her to not talk like that in church. Ariel then sarcastically asks him if he will pass another law, as it didn't stop her and Chuck from having sex. Shaw slaps her abruptly, shocking his wife Vi, and prompting Ariel to tearfully and angrily criticize his domineering ways and storm out.

When Shaw tries to apologize Vi stops him, telling him he has gone too far. Supporting the dancing movement, she tells him that he is not being good to Ariel, he cannot be everyone's father and dancing and music are not the problems.

Ren goes before the city council and reads several Bible verses given to him by Ariel. They describe that even in ancient times people would dance to rejoice, exercise, celebrate or worship.

Despite the city council voting against him, Ren's boss offers his cotton mill, which is technically in the neighboring town of Bayson, to let the seniors have their prom. Knowing that Shaw still has enough influence to pressure the parents not to let their teenagers come, Ren visits him one evening. In the conversation they realize their common ground is the loss of a loved one. After Shaw tells the story of Bobby, Ren describes his mother's death and states that even though they denied the motion to dismiss the law, they cannot stop the dance. He then respectfully requests to take Ariel, and Shaw agrees.

A few days before the prom, Shaw unexpectedly asks his congregation to pray for the high school students putting on the prom. The students (and many parents) prepare and decorate the mill for the prom.

Not long after Ren and Ariel arrive at the prom, Chuck and several of his friends arrive to instigate chaos. However, Ren, Willard, Ariel and her best friend Rusty Rodriguez subdue them. Ren goes inside, exclaiming "Hey, I thought this was a party!" Then he flings confetti into a shredding machine and yells, "Let's dance!" as everyone joins in dancing to the opening song "Footloose".

####Fun in Acapulco####
Mike Windgren works on a boat in Acapulco, Mexico. When Janie Harkins, the bratty daughter of the boat owner, gets him fired, Mike must find new work. A Mexican boy named Raoul helps him get a job as a lifeguard and singer at a local hotel. Clashes abound when Mike runs into a rival lifeguard, who is the champion diver of Mexico. He is angry at Mike for taking some of his hours, and for stealing his woman.

Mike is recovering from post-traumatic stress disorder and a fear of heights, following a tragic high-wire accident during his career as a circus performer. However, after Mike sees the lifeguard perform a number of dangerous dives, including flips and head-first dives into a section of the pool surrounded by a ring of fire, he decides to get even with him and eventually sets himself up to perform a death-defying dive off the 136-foot cliffs of La Quebrada in front of hundreds of people. Mike dives off the cliff, and successfully lands in the water, earning the lifeguard's respect.

As the crowd and the lifeguard applaud, Mike performs one more song and leaves with Margarita and Raoul.

####Funny Face####
Maggie Prescott, a fashion magazine publisher and editor for "Quality" magazine, is looking for the next big fashion trend. She wants a new look which is to be both "beautiful" and "intellectual". She and top fashion photographer Dick Avery want models who can "think as well as they look." The two brainstorm and come up with the idea to use a book store in Greenwich Village as backdrop.

They find what they want in "Embryo Concepts", which is being run by the shy shop assistant and amateur philosopher, Jo Stockton. Jo thinks the fashion and modelling industry is nonsense, calling it "chichi, and an unrealistic approach to self-impressions as well as economics". Maggie decides to use Jo but after the first shot Jo is locked outside to keep her from interrupting Maggie’s take-over of the shop. The crew leaves the store in a shambles; Dick stays behind to help clean up and apologizes to Jo, then kisses her impulsively. Jo dismisses him, but her song "How Long Has This Been Going On?" shows that she feels the stirrings of romance.

What Jo wants above all is to go to Paris and attend the famous Professor Émile Flostre's philosophy lectures about empathicalism. When Dick gets back to the darkroom, he sees something in Jo's face which is new and fresh and would be perfect for the campaign, giving it "character", "spirit", and "intelligence". They send for Jo, pretending they want to order some books from her shop. Once she arrives, they try to make her over and attempt to cut her hair. She is outraged and runs away, only to hide in the darkroom where Dick is working. When Dick mentions Paris, Jo becomes interested in the chance to see Professor Flostre and is finally persuaded to model for the magazine. Dick sings "Funny Face".

Soon, Maggie, Dick, and Jo are off to Paris to prepare for a major fashion event, shooting photos at famous landmarks from the area. During the various shoots, Jo and Dick fall in love. "He Loves and She Loves". One night, when Jo is getting ready for a gala, she learns that Flostre is giving a lecture at a cafe nearby, which she attends. Eventually, Dick brings her back and they get into an argument at the gala's opening, which results in Jo being publicly embarrassed and Maggie outraged.

Jo goes to talk to Flostre at his home. Through some scheming, Maggie and Dick gain entrance to the soirée there. After performing an impromptu song and dance for Flostre's disciples, they confront Jo and Flostre. This leads to Dick causing Flostre to fall and knock himself out. Jo urges them to leave but when Flostre comes round, he tries to seduce her. Shocked at the behavior of her "idol", she smashes a vase over his head and runs out, returning just in time to take part in the final fashion show. During this, Maggie tries to get in touch with Dick, who has made plans to leave Paris. Before her wedding gown finale, Jo looks out the window and sees the plane Dick was supposed to be on flying over the city. Believing that he has refused to return to her, she runs off the runway in tears at the conclusion of the show.

Meanwhile, Dick is still at the airport. He runs into Flostre and learns how Jo had attacked him. Realizing how much Jo cares, Dick returns to the fashion show, but Jo is nowhere to be found. Finally, after applying the insights of empathicalism at Maggie's behest, Dick guesses that Jo would return to the church where he had photographed her in a wedding dress and they shared their first romantic moment. On his arrival there himself, he finds Jo (in the wedding gown) by a little brook. They join in the duet "'S Wonderful" and embrace.

####G.I. Blues####
U.S. Army Specialist 5 (SP5) Tulsa McLean (Elvis Presley) is a tank crewman with a singing career. Serving with the 3rd Armored "Spearhead" Division in West Germany, McLean dreams of running his own nightclub when he leaves the army, but such dreams don't come cheap. Tulsa and his buddies have formed a band and perform in various German "Gasthauses", night clubs, and on an Armed Forces stage. In one bar, he even discovers the record "Blue Suede Shoes" sung by someone named Elvis Presley on a jukebox.

To raise money, Tulsa places a bet with his friend Dynamite (Edson Stroll) that he can spend the night with a club dancer named Lili (Juliet Prowse), who is rumored to be hard to get since she turned down one other G.I. operator, Turk (Jeremy Slate). Dynamite and Turk have vied for women before when the two were stationed in Hawaii. When Dynamite gets transferred to Alaska, Tulsa is brought in to take his place. He is not looking forward to it, but must go through with it.

Tulsa uses his Southern charm and calls Lili "ma'am." She at first sees Tulsa as another Occupation Duty GI. Then after a day on the Rhine, Lili begins to fall for him. Tulsa's friend Cookie, meanwhile, falls in love with Lili's roommate, Tina (Letícia Román) from Italy. In the end, Rick's and Marla's baby son Tiger helps Tulsa win the bet for the outfit—and Lili's heart.

####Gentlemen Marry Brunettes####
Bonnie and Connie Jones, played by Jane Russell and Jeanne Crain, are two sisters that live in New York working on Broadway. They are known as the second generation of the Jones sisters, taking the name after their mother, Mitzi Jones, who also performed popularly with her sister, Mimi Jones.

Bonnie and Connie are often offered engagements by men. Connie refuses these New Yorkers every time, while her sister Bonnie seemingly cannot say no to all these men’s offerings. This initiates fights between the men outside the sisters’ shows, and these situations embarrass Connie for being related to Bonnie.

The sisters fight about Bonnie’s weakness to refuse these men. Connie wants her sister to promise her to refuse them for the sake of their career. However, the moment the sisters reconcile, a messenger knocks on their door with an offered Paris agreement by David Action to partake shows around France.

The sisters immediately agree, and promise each other to focus on the success of their career rather than focusing on desperate men looking for marriage. When they arrive in Paris, they are welcomed by Charlie Biddle and David Action, played by Alan Young and Scott Brady, who will later become the sisters’ love interests.

The men are surprised by the difference between the first generation and the second generation of the Jones sisters. They notice that Bonnie and Connie lack the lush living style of their mother and act more sophisticated. The sisters claim that they do not own a lot because of financial problems; it took them three months of savings to buy an average looking dress for their shows.

The girls open their luggage to get ready for a cocktail party; however, their only dress is a cheetah printed dress which to Rudy is not appropriate to wear in the afternoon for the press. They want to be able to show off the new Jones sisters properly, and therefore, they remodel the dresses to impress Paris just like the first generation of the Jones sisters. The cocktail party goes extremely well. Men are dancing and the girls have the attention of the whole room. Their popularity and names go all around Paris, which helps their career.

The next day, the Jones sisters want to tour the city of Paris and plead with David and Charlie to show them around. They separate into two groups, Connie leaving with Charlie and Bonnie leaving with David. These quickly turn into dates in the city of Paris, as both couples share kisses and reveal their attraction towards one another. However, Bonnie’s relationship with David complicates because David fears to give himself away to another person. He would rather stay a bachelor, which is what he calls himself.

But as love is growing between the two groups, so are the sisters’ career. Parisian casinos desire to have them perform for their nighttime show. But the girls refuse most of them as the casino provides them with vulgar and lacking attire. For their own dignity, Bonnie and Connie refuse to show their bodies off for the enjoyment of others. Although most of the casinos refuse to give them proper attire, the girls find their way around this and hide their bodies from the audience using a hat with long feathers the casino provided them with. They not only performed and received their well-earned money, but received more attention in France, allowing them to perform in Monte Carlo the next evening.

The girls perform beautifully at their next and unexpectedly last show of the movie. Their mother, Mitzi, is unhappy with the circumstances her daughter are in, and she forces them to come home to New York with her. After her show days, Bonnie and Connie have claimed that their mother has raised them strictly. She especially does not want her daughters to display themselves vulgarly, which is why she forcefully brings them back home.

Grabbing them by the ears, she puts them in a taxi car leaving the Monte Carlo Casino. After seeing the love of their lives leave, David and Charlie know that they cannot bear living the rest of their lives without the sisters and they decide to chase after them. The movie ends with Charlie and David running to the boat taking off for New York looking for the Jones sisters. The moment they meet again, Charlie proposes to Connie, and David pleads to be forgiven by Bonnie for refusing her in the beginning of their relationship. Bonnie, of course, forgives David who then takes action and proposes to her. The movie ends with two newly and happily engaged couples taking off on a boat to New York.

####Gentlemen Prefer Blondes####
Lorelei Lee (Marilyn Monroe) and Dorothy Shaw (Jane Russell) are American showgirls and best friends, although the two are very different. Lorelei thinks more of a man's financial wealth and likes men who can support her passion for diamonds, like her fiancé, Gus, who can provide all of her financial "needs". Dorothy prefers men who are good-looking and fit, and does not care about their wealth.

Lorelei plans to wed Gus in France, but the two are forbidden to travel together by Gus's strict father, Esmond Sr., who despises Lorelei. Lorelei decides to travel to France with or without Gus, and before she leaves he gives her a letter of credit to cover expenses upon her arrival, and promises to later meet her in France. However, he also warns her to behave, noting that his father will prohibit their marriage if rumors of misdeeds make their way to Esmond Sr. Unbeknownst to both of them, Esmond Sr. has hired a private detective, Ernie Malone, to spy on Lorelei.

During the Atlantic crossing, Malone immediately falls in love with Dorothy, but Dorothy has already been drawn to the members of the (all-male) Olympic team. Lorelei meets the rich and foolish Sir Francis "Piggy" Beekman, the owner of a diamond mine, and is attracted by his wealth; although Piggy is married, Lorelei naively returns his geriatric flirtations, which annoys his wife, Lady Beekman.

Lorelei invites Piggy to the cabin she shares with Dorothy, whereupon he recounts his travels to Africa. While Piggy demonstrates how a python squeezes a goat by hugging Lorelei, Malone spies on them through the window and takes pictures of the two, but is caught by Dorothy as he walks away nonchalantly. She tells Lorelei, who fears for her reputation. They come up with a scheme to intoxicate Malone and then search him to recover the incriminating film while he is unconscious. They find the film in his pants, and Lorelei promptly prints and hides the negatives. Revealing her success to Piggy, she persuades him to give her Lady Beekman's tiara as a thank you gift. However, Malone reveals he had planted a recording device in Lorelei's cabin, and has heard her discussion with Piggy about the pictures and the tiara. Malone implies that Lorelei is a golddigger and, when Dorothy scolds him for his actions, admits that he himself is a liar. However, Dorothy reveals to Lorelei she is falling for Malone, after which Lorelei chastises her for choosing a poor man when she could easily have a rich one.


The ship arrives in France, and Lorelei and Dorothy spend time shopping. However, the pair discover that Lorelei's letter of credit has been cancelled and are then kicked out of their hotel due to the information Malone shared with Esmond Sr.  The duo are forced to find work as showgirls in Paris, headlining a lavish revue.  When Gus shows up at their show, Lorelei rebuffs him, after which she performs "Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend", the musical number whose lyrics explain why and how women need to pursue men with money. Meanwhile, Lady Beekman has filed charges regarding her missing tiara, and Lorelei is arraigned for theft. Dorothy persuades Lorelei to return the tiara, but the pair discover it is missing from her jewelry box. Piggy tries to weasel out of his part in the affair when Malone catches him at the airport.

Dorothy stalls for time in court by pretending to be Lorelei, disguised in a blonde wig and mimicking her friend's breathy voice and mannerisms. When Malone appears in court and is about to unmask "Lorelei" as Dorothy, she reveals to Malone in covert language that she, Dorothy, loves him but would never forgive him if he were to do anything to hurt her best friend, Lorelei. Malone withdraws his comments, but then reveals Piggy has the tiara, exonerating Lorelei.

Back at the nightclub, Lorelei impresses Esmond Sr. with a speech on the subject of paternal money, and also makes an argument that if Esmond Sr. had a daughter instead of a son, he would want the best for her, to which he agrees and consents to his son's marriage to Lorelei. The film closes with a double wedding for Lorelei and Dorothy, who marry Gus and Malone, respectively.

####Gidget Goes Hawaiian####
Gidget's father announces that they are going to Hawaii for two weeks. On the plane to Hawaii, Gidget meets Abby Stewart and her parents, popular dancer Eddie Horner, and several more boys. Missing her boyfriend Jeff "Moondoggie" Matthews, Gidget mopes in her room. Her father sends for Jeff, suggesting that he come to Hawaii to surprise Gidget. That night, Abby invites Gidget to join her and Eddie.  When Gidget makes a big hit with the boys and dances with Eddie, she inadvertently becomes Abby's rival.

Gidget makes an even bigger impression surfing the next day, leading to an unexpected kiss from Eddie just as Jeff arrives. The two argue and finally decide to go their separate ways. That night at dinner, Jeff arrives with Abby and Gidget retaliates by flirting with Eddie. The contest continues through water-skiing and other activities until Abby, fed up and jealous, decides to spread a rumor that Gidget has slept with Eddie and other guys. Abby's mother relays this gossip to Gidget's mother, quickly leading to arguments between the two, between Gidget and her parents, and finally between both married couples. Gidget's father finds himself drinking with Abby's mother in the hotel bar, while Abby's father and Gidget's mother also make peace. The two mismatched couples eventually meet and resolve their respective disputes.

At the Luau, Abby tells Jeff about the rumor that Gidget sleeps around, admitting that it's a lie. Jeff and Gidget reconcile on the beach and head back to the hotel to straighten everything out with the adults. Through a few mix-ups, Gidget believes her parents are cheating on each other with Abby's parents, and Gidget's parents believe Gidget's gone missing. Soon, everybody is gathered in Gidget's room, unaware that Gidget is just down the hall in her parents' suite with Jeff waiting for them. Gidget tries to cover for each of her parents' apparent indiscretions, but soon all misunderstandings are cleared up. Gidget and Jeff also explain their relationship to Eddie and the rest of the gang. The next day, as punishment for spreading the rumor, the guys drag a terrified Abby into the ocean and place her on Gidget's surfboard. When the surf comes rolling in, Abby frantically clings on for dear life while Gidget and Jeff enjoy riding the waves.

####Gigi####
The film is set during the Belle Époque at the turn of the 20th century. While in Bois de Boulogne, Honoré Lachaille remarks that in Paris, marriage is not the sole option for wealthy young "bon vivants" like his nephew Gaston, who is bored with life. Gaston does enjoy spending time with Madame Alvarez and her granddaughter, the precocious, carefree Gilberte, affectionately known as Gigi. Gigi's mother (a singer who is heard but never seen onscreen) leaves her care mostly to Madame Alvarez.

Following the "family tradition", Madame Alvarez regularly sends Gigi to her sister, Alicia (Gigi's great-aunt) to be groomed as a courtesan, which is a more dignified euphemism for a wealthy man's mistress. She learns proper etiquette and charm, but Gigi disdains the trivial love between a man and his mistress. She prefers having fun with Gaston, whom she regards as an older brother.

Like his uncle, Gaston is a known wealthy womanizer in Parisian high society. When his latest mistress has an affair with her ice skating instructor, Gaston publicly humiliates her, resulting in her faux-attempted suicide. Gaston plans to retreat to the country, but his uncle insists he remain in Paris and attend even more parties.

While playing cards with Gaston, Gigi wagers that if he loses, he must take her and her grandmother to the seaside for the weekend. Gaston agrees, loses the bet, and the three travel to Trouville. While Gaston and Gigi have fun together, Honoré and Madame Alvarez unexpectedly reunite and reminisce about their once-passionate affair. As other women at the resort hold perfect poise with an air of boredom or disdain for anything unfamiliar, Gigi pulls Gaston out of his depressive rut with her carefree attitude.

When Gaston goes to Monte Carlo, great-aunt Alicia and Madame Alvarez scheme to turn Gigi into Gaston's mistress. Though initially dubious, Madame Alvarez agrees to Gigi being intensively trained before Gaston's return. Gigi accepts this as pre-destined.

When Gaston returns, he is discomfited when Gigi shows off her new womanly gown. Gaston insults the dress, preferring her juvenile outfits; Gigi mocks his taste in clothes. Offended, Gaston storms out, then quickly realizes his folly and returns to apologize. He offers to take Gigi to tea at the Reservoir, but Madame Alvarez interjects, telling Gaston that an unchaperoned Gigi being seen in public with him could damage her reputation.

Angered, Gaston storms out again. He walks and reflects on Gigi, realizing he has developed a romantic desire for her. Although hesitant due to her young age, Gaston realizes that he loves Gigi. He wishes only to be near her—an unheard-of behavior between a man and his mistress. Despite such conventions, he proposes a generous "business arrangement" to Madame Alvarez and Aunt Alicia for Gigi to become his mistress. The women are overjoyed by his offer, though Gigi is not.

Gigi refuses, telling Gaston she does not seek celebrity status, only to eventually be abandoned by him and become another man's mistress. She wants their relationship to remain platonic, but when Gaston suddenly reveals that he loves her, Gigi bursts into tears. She chastises him, saying if he truly loved her, he would never expose her to a mistress's uncertain life. Gaston leaves dejected and is angry at Madame Alvarez, claiming she only emphasized the proposition's sordidness. He then speaks with Honoré, who says that Gigi's family has always been rather odd. Gigi later sends for Gaston and tells him that she would rather be miserable with him than without him, and agrees to the arrangement. When Gaston arrives for their first social outing, he is unexpectedly entranced by the transformed Gigi's elegant beauty.

The couple go to Maxim's restaurant. Gigi performs perfectly as his courtesan, which only upsets Gaston. After presenting her with an expensive diamond bracelet, he grows uneasy with the unrelenting scrutiny being heaped on them. Honoré delivers a crushing blow when he congratulates Gaston on his new courtesan and remarks that Gigi is so delightful that she will likely keep him amused for months.

Gaston, too in love with Gigi to subject her to an appalling life of uncertainty and social judgment, brusquely insists they leave. He drags Gigi up the stairs and into her grandmother's apartment. Sobbing hysterically, Gigi asks what she did wrong. Gaston leaves without answering, but realizing the depth of his love, soon returns. He asks Madame Alvarez for Gigi's hand in marriage. Gigi is overjoyed, as is her grandmother.

The final sequence returns to Honoré Lachaille, who proudly points out Gaston and Gigi getting into a carriage in the Bois de Boulogne: elegant, beautiful, and happily married.

####Girl Happy####
Nightclub singer Rusty Wells (Presley) and his band have just closed their engagement at the club where they work in Chicago and are about ready to leave for their annual spring break trip to Fort Lauderdale, Florida—that is, until the club's owner, Big Frank (Harold Stone), extends their stay at his club, foiling the band's plans for some sun and fun in Florida.

At the same time, Big Frank's daughter, college student Valerie (Shelley Fabares) also takes her spring break in Lauderdale with her friends, which worries her father to no end. So at the suggestion of Rusty (who sees this situation as an opportunity for him and the guys to make Lauderdale after all), Big Frank hires Rusty and his band to make the trip to Lauderdale to look after Valerie to make sure she stays out of trouble. But the task isn't easy because Rusty and the guys struggle to keep sex-crazed Italian exchange student Romano (Fabrizio Mioni) away from Valerie, while at the same time Rusty has to keep explaining the situation to his date, a good-time girl named Deena (Mary Ann Mobley), who has no patience for guys who stand her up or keep her waiting.

Rusty's watch over Valerie eventually leads to the two of them falling in love (after Rusty walks Valerie to her motel room, serenading her with "Puppet on a String").  However, after Big Frank reveals to Valerie that he is paying Rusty to be her chaperone, Valerie becomes angry and devastated to the point of going to a local nightclub, getting drunk, and starting a riot, landing everyone there in jail.

When Big Frank arrives in Lauderdale to spring Valerie from jail, he is angry with Rusty at first. But after he sees that Valerie has fallen in love with Rusty, Big Frank makes amends with Rusty, allowing Rusty and Valerie to rekindle their relationship.

####The Girl Most Likely####
Dodie lives with her parents and dreams of marrying a millionaire. At home in California, near the ocean, her boyfriend Buzz is a real-estate agent of modest means. He proposes marriage and she accepts, but tells her pal Marge that she has doubts.

A yacht arrives, owned by wealthy Neil Patterson, which gets Dodie's fantasies going. She leaps into the water and swims to meet him. Asked on a date, Dodie is thrilled until she learns that the man isn't Neil at all but Pete, his poor mechanic.

It isn't long before Pete is smitten and proposes. He also infuriates Buzz by pretending to buy a house and bringing Dodie along as his fiancee.

A drunk Neil has an accidental meeting with Dodie and invites her onto the yacht. At first, she's annoyed by his advances, but in Tijuana, she gets tipsy and has a great time. Neil is the rich suitor of her dreams, one who even buys a taxi rather than just hailing a ride from one.

After being out till 4 a.m., Dodie is brought home by Neil, only to find Buzz and Pete impatiently waiting on her doorstep. Asking time to sleep on a decision, Dodie tells them the next morning that she has made her choice: Neil.

The guys reluctantly accept, and Dodie goes off with her new betrothed. But the minute Pete kisses her goodbye, she promptly changes her mind.

####Girl of the Rio####
South of the U.S. border, Don José Tostado, a Mexican caballero, falls in love with Dolores Romero, a dance-hall girl. Owning one of the larger ranches in the area, Tostado is not used to people telling him no. When Romero resists his advances, using a fictional boyfriend as her excuse, this only increases his interest in her, and his attempts to win her favor. As part of that attempt, he plans to throw a gala in her honor.

Meanwhile, Romero falls for Johnny Powell, a dealer at a nearby casino. She confides in him that she has no interest in Tostado, but doesn't know how to get him to leave her alone. Powell offers to take her away and get married.  They make their plans, but before they can carry them out, Tostado learns of them and hatches a plot of his own: he frames Powell for a murder and has him arrested. When Dolores hears that Tostado has paid the jailer to kill Johnny during an escape attempt, she makes a deal with Tostado to give herself to him in exchange for Johnny's life and freedom. Tostado agrees.

When Johnny is freed, Dolores makes it clear that she is no longer interested in him, and that she intends to marry Tostado. Dolores leaves with Tostado, heading for his ranch. On the way, she attempts to commit suicide, but is stopped by Tostado, who is startled to discover that she would rather be dead than be stuck with him for the rest of her life. When they arrive back at his hacienda, they are surprised by Johnny, who fights Tostado.  When they police arrive, they arrest Johnny, and are ready to execute him summarily, on Tostado's orders.  Dolores intercedes on Johnny's behalf, and her pleas have their desired effect. Realizing that he's beaten, Tostado calls off the police, and lets Dolores leave with Johnny.

####Girls Just Want to Have Fun####
Janey Glenn is an army brat whose father Robert has retired from the Army and relocated to Chicago, home of her favorite dance show "Dance TV". At her Catholic girls school, she quickly makes a new friend in Lynne Stone, a fellow fan of "Dance TV". Although Robert nixes the idea of her going to downtown Chicago to try out for "Dance TV", Janey accompanies Lynne to the auditions anyway.

At the auditions, spoiled rich Natalie Sands becomes the enemy when she narrowly misses Lynne while parking her car. Auditions are going well until Lynne's partner is cut (Natalie bribed Lynne's partner to sabotage her). Janey and local high schooler Jeff shine, and are partnered together once they make the finals. He loves to dance, though he feels pressured to attend trade school after graduation, as his father did before him.

Initially, Janey and Jeff butt heads due to their disparate upbringings. Despite his natural ability, he has never taken a class, while she has been taking both gymnastics and dance classes for ten years. Helping them to get off on the wrong foot is also Janey's inability to practice, due to her strict father's rules. Things are further complicated by Natalie's meddling, she discovers Janey skipped choir practice to meet Jeff and calls her father to tell, posing as a Sister.

An excellent opportunity for both girls to get back at Natalie presents itself when Jeff is invited to her coming out party. They make 150 copies of her invitation (provided by Jeff's best friend Drew) and give them to odd characters all over town. Jeff and Drew attend the party, watching the chaos ensue when all of the oddballs with invites show up (as do Lynne, Janey and Jeff's sister Maggie, watching from the window).

Janey and Jeff become close through their rehearsals. One night, he tells her to meet him at a club, not the rehearsal studio. While enjoying some unstructured dance time, Jeff is taken away by a girl who locked her keys in her car. Meanwhile, a large admirer moves in on Janey. On Jeff's return, a fight ensues, Jeff sucker-punches the much larger man, and they run out of the club together. Once at Janey's, she is aglow over her life now: she is in the running to become a "Dance TV" regular, has a great best friend, as well as a boyfriend. They finally kiss before she excitedly runs inside.

Given the total wreck the party became, the rivalry with Natalie has intensified. She convinces her father to become more involved in ensuring her win. This is an easy feat, as her father owns the company that Jeff's father works for. One day, Natalie's father, J.P. Sands, corners Jeff and tells him that if Natalie does not win, his father will lose his job. This puts him in a bad mood and he argues with Janey when he arrives at rehearsal. Her mood quickly matches his when she arrives home and, sneaking into the house, she finds that her father has installed a security system. He then grounds her, making it virtually impossible for her to attend the dance contest final the next day.

Meanwhile, Jeff's surly attitude and decreased desire to be in the contest is noticed by his father. When he finally gets his son to talk, he simply asks if he can win the contest. When Jeff answers yes, he is told to do so and not worry about his father's job. However, Janey is still under heavy restrictions and does not know Jeff has changed his mind. However, her little brother brings her a message that Jeff will compete and she employs Lynne to sneak her out of the house.

Once Lynne arrives, Janey cuts the wires to the security system and escapes the guard dog. When they arrive at the station, Janey barely makes the beginning of the show, embracing and kissing Jeff as she arrives. The show begins and the competition is underway. At home, her family turns on the television and sees her dancing. Her father, furious, storms out, heading to the studio. Meanwhile, Jeff's father watches the show from his neighborhood pub, surrounded by friends who are all cheering on Jeff and Janey.

After all of the dancers have performed on the live show, the decision comes back: there is a tie between Janey and Jeff and Natalie and her partner. A dance-off ensues. Natalie goes first and when done, strolls off the stage proudly, believing she has won. But Janey tells Jeff "Let's do it", they do a series of synchronized gymnastics she has taught him over their time together. When the judges deliberate again, the decision is unanimous: Jeff and Janey win.

Natalie is furious and begins to berate her partner over costing her the contest. When she goes to her father to complain, he finally puts his foot down and tells his spoiled daughter to shut up, to her amazement. When Janey spots her father in the studio, she thinks she is in for trouble, but he smiles and shows his enthusiasm at her talent. Miss Dance TV is called to the stage and when she enters, it is none other than Lynne, who has taken the reins when the former Miss Dance TV quit during the show.

####Girls! Girls! Girls!####
Ross Carpenter is a Hawaii-based fishing guide and sailor who enjoys boating and sailing out on the sea. When he finds out his boss is retiring to Arizona, he seeks to find a way to buy the "Westwind", a boat that he built with his father.

Ross is caught in a love triangle with two women: childish, insensitive club singer Robin, and sweet Laurel. When Wesley Johnson makes advances on Laurel, Ross punches him out. Wesley owns the boat, so Ross thereby loses it. Laurel, however, is not who she pretends to be. Ross has to choose between her and Robin.

####Give a Girl a Break####
When the temperamental star of a new Broadway musical revue in rehearsals walks out, director and choreographer Ted Sturgis) suggests casting an unknown for the role. When it is announced in the newspapers, throngs of hopefuls show up. They sing about their hopes in the song, "Give a Girl a Break."  The revue's musical composer, Leo Belney, champions ballerina Joanna Moss, while gofer Bob Dowdy is enchanted by novice Suzy Doolittle (Debbie Reynolds). Then producer Felix Jordan persuades Ted's former dance partner, Madelyn Corlane, to come out of retirement to try out, much to Ted's great discomfort.  Leo, Bob, and Ted sing about the challenges of re-writing the show for a new performer in "Nothing is Impossible."

Joanna goes home and tells her husband she has a good chance of getting the part.  He has exciting news of his own. He has been offered a position as head of the English Department at a major University out of state.  They argue and then make up.  Suzy goes home to tell her mother she has a chance at the part.  Her mother tells her she should spend the evening readying for the audition tomorrow.  Bob shows up while she is practicing.  She goes out with him.  They sing and dance to "In Our United State."  Ted visits Madelyn to let her know that if she wants the part she better show up and give a great audition.  He begins "The challenge Dance."  She matches him step for step.  They are ready to fall into each other's arms when her date for the evening shows up.

Bob fantasizes about dancing with Suzy in a sequence using the songs "Give a Girl a Break" and "In Our United State."  Leo fantasizes about conducting an orchestra while Joanna dances to the "Puppet Master Dance."  Ted envisions himself dancing with Madelyn to "It Happens Ev'ry Time."  Joanna, Suzy and Madelyn all perform well at the audition.  Leo, Felix and Ted discuss who should get the part.  Bob overhears them talking about Suzy in the role and assuming she has the part, he calls her and tells her she has the part.

A heated discussion ensues. Felix and Leo both want Joanna in the part.  Ted prefers Madelyn but he concedes.  Joanna accepts the part.  Bob calls Suzy to tell her he was mistaken.  Suzy is crushed.  Ted goes in person to let Madelyn know.

Rehearsals are underway with Joanna.  She isn't doing well and runs to her dressing room in tears.  Her husband shows up ready to leave town for his new job. Joanna stops crying and happily announces she is pregnant and she is leaving with her husband.  Felix, Leo and Ted discuss hiring Suzy for the part.  Bob runs and calls her to let her know.  She doesn't believe him but he convinces her. However, they have decided to offer the part to Madelyn.  But when it becomes clear that Madelyn has left town and can't be reached, the job is offered to Suzy.

Opening night arrives.  We see Ted and Suzy dance and sing to "Applause, Applause."  The show, and Suzy, are a hit.  Ted walks out into the empty theater after the show and sees Madelyn.  He asks why she left.  She tells him she wanted to find out if it was show business she missed or him.  It was him.  They run into each other's arms.

####Give Me a Sailor####
Jim and Walter Brewster are brothers and naval officers; both of whom are in love with Nancy Larkin, much to the chagrin of Nancy's sister Letty.  Walter has the inside track with Nancy, but Jim & Letty conspire to keep them apart.  There are various comic shenanigans and a "Beautiful Legs" contest that Letty enters in error, but wins and becomes an instant celebrity.  Fame and fortune are showered upon her and she and Jim realize that they are meant for each other.

####Glitter####
In the 1970s, Lillian Frank is a performer at a nightclub. Lillian tries to rouse the crowd with her torch song, "Lillie's Blues", with her daughter Billie Frank accompanying her on vocals. The plot fails and Lillian is fired. Lillian feels defeated and lights a cigarette, but then accidentally falls asleep, starting a fire and causing the building to be evacuated. Due to her mother's actions, Billie is fostered.

Years later, in 1983, the adult Billie is a club dancer along with her foster-care friends Louise and Roxanne. They meet Timothy Walker, who offers a contract as backup singers and dancers to the singer Sylk and the three are contracted. Later at a nightclub hosted by Julian "Dice" Black, Sylk debuts "All My Life". Dice discovers that Billie is the real singer of the song, as a means to cover up Sylk's abysmal singing ability. Impressed, he wishes to produce her but Billie raises concerns about her contract with Timothy and he eventually agrees on the provision that Dice pays him $100,000.

Billie and Dice start working on songs. Ultimately they sign with Guy Richardson of a major record label. With success in their hands, he asks her up to his apartment and they have passionate sex. Billie's first major single, "Loverboy", is a success. Billie is called to perform at an awards ceremony, where she meets singer Rafael. Billie gets a threat from Timothy concerning the debt that Dice failed to pay. Billie, upset about how Dice lied about her contract and his arrest, argues with and leaves him. Following the break-up, Billie collaborates with several songwriters, including Rafael, with whom she makes another hit single, "Want You", and her debut album becomes a massive success.

Billie begins writing a song on her own, due to her emotional pain. Dice also misses Billie, and also begins writing a song. Billie goes to Dice's apartment to reconcile with him but discovers he is not home. She discovers the music he has written and realizes they wrote the same song, "Never Too Far", and kisses his music sheet. Dice, upon seeing her lipstick prints on the sheet, plans a reconciliation but is shot dead by Timothy. Before playing at Madison Square Garden, a devastated Billie sees the news report of Dice's death, and onstage after, commands the band to stop playing "Loverboy". She tearfully tells the audience not to take the ones they love for granted, and she then starts to sing "Never Too Far". Afterward, Billie reads a note Dice had left her, where he tells her that he loves her and that he has found Lillian. Billie's limo takes her to the secluded rural property where she is happily reunited with her mother.

####Going Hollywood####
The film tells how an infatuated school-teacher, Sylvia Bruce (Marion Davies), follows Bill Williams (Bing Crosby), a popular crooner, to Hollywood where he is to make a picture. On board the train she obtains a job as maid to Bill's French fiancée and leading lady, Lili Yvonne (Fifi D'Orsay), and meets the film's director, Conroy (Ned Sparks), and promoter, Baker (Stuart Erwin). On arrival in Hollywood she is befriended by Jill (Patsy Kelly) and shares her rooms.

At the Independent Art Studio in Hollywood, where the film is being made, Lili's temperament and lack of talent cause Conroy much concern. Eventually, after losing her temper with a woman who asks for her autograph, Lili refuses to continue unless the woman is removed from the Studio. She is persuaded to stay and production continues with her singing 'Cinderella's Fella' but Conroy is still not satisfied and an angry Lili walks out. Sylvia impersonates Lili's version of the song and ends with an imitation of Lili's tantrums. Lili returns in time to hear Sylvia and there is a brawl in which Lili gets a black eye. Baker, who has also heard Sylvia, intervenes by firing Lili and engaging Sylvia for the part.

Baker asks Sylvia to accompany him to a party but withdraws when Bill expresses his own interest in her. Bill takes Sylvia to dinner and the party but a quarrel ensues and she accuses him of insincerity. Bill deserts the film and goes with Lili to Tijuana where, drinking heavily, he receives a telephone call from the Studio with the ultimatum that if he does not return they will get a replacement. Lili advises him to let them do so and suggests that they fly together to New York and on to Paris. Sylvia finds him and pleads for him to come back to the Studio but returns without him.

In Hollywood there is difficulty with the player chosen to replace Bill and eventually Bill finally appears at the Studio to rejoin Sylvia in the film's closing sequence to sing 'Our Big Love Scene'.

The song 'Beautiful Girl' is sung by Crosby at the beginning of the film before his departure for Hollywood when technicians arrive to record it. When he boards the train at Grand Central Terminal there is a big production number where he and the chorus sing 'Going Hollywood'. He also sings a few lines of 'Just an Echo in the Valley'. Crosby is also heard singing 'Our Big Love Scene' on the radio when Jill is showing Sylvia her apartment. 'We'll Make Hay While the Sun Shines' is a dream-sequence production number with thunderstorm effects at the Studio and is featured by Crosby, Marion Davies, chorus and dancers. An impersonation act by The Radio Rogues is also filmed at the Studio and includes imitations of Kate Smith ('When The Moon Comes Over The Mountain'). Russ Columbo ('You Call It Madness But I Call It Love'), Morton Downey ('Remember Me?') and Rudy Vallee ('My Dime Is Your Dime'). Crosby sings 'After Sundown' at the party. 'Temptation' was an early film attempt to fit a song into the story pattern and was presented dramatically by Crosby whilst drinking tequila in a bar at Tijuana.

####Grease####
In the summer of 1958, local boy Danny Zuko and vacationing Australian Sandy Olsson meet at the beach and fall in love. When the summer comes to an end, Sandy frets that they may never meet again, but Danny tells her that their love is "only the beginning".

At the start of the seniors' term at Rydell High School, Danny resumes his role as leader of the T-Birds greaser gang consisting of Doody, Sonny, Putzie, and his best friend Kenickie. Sandy's parents remain in America and enroll Sandy at Rydell where she meets greaser girl clique the Pink Ladies consisting of Frenchy, Marty, Jan and leader Rizzo.

Danny and Sandy recount their brief romance to their respective groups, Sandy recalling a romantic summer and Danny implying a more physical experience. When Sandy finally says Danny's name, Rizzo arranges a surprise reunion at a pep rally where Sandy meets Tom, a jock, and Kenickie unveils his new used car, Greased Lightnin', which he plans on street racing after a restoration. Caught between his feelings and his bad-boy reputation, Danny snubs Sandy in front of his gang and she becomes upset.

At a Pink Ladies pajama party, Sandy falls ill from drinking, trying a cigarette, and having her ears pierced by Frenchy, while Rizzo, after mocking Sandy's wholesome and chaste personality, departs for sex with Kenickie in his car, during which their condom breaks; they are disturbed by Leo, leader of the rival gang, the Scorpions, and his girlfriend Cha-Cha. After the slumber party comes to an end, Sandy realizes she still loves Danny after all.

The next day, Danny apologizes to Sandy for having brushed her off the night earlier and, with Coach Calhoun's help, becomes a runner and successfully wins her back from Tom, but their friends crash their date, and Kenickie and Rizzo break up after an argument. After a disastrous beauty class leaves Frenchy with candy-pink hair, she reluctantly decides to return to Rydell to complete her high-school education.

During the school dance, broadcast live on "National Bandstand" and hosted by DJ Vince Fontaine, Rizzo and Kenickie spite each other by bringing Leo and Cha-Cha as their dates. In a chaotic hand jive contest, Danny and Sandy dance well, but just before the winners are announced, Sonny pulls Sandy away and Cha-Cha cuts in to win with Danny, as Sandy storms out. Danny tries to make it up to Sandy by taking her to a drive-in theater, but a more direct and pushy advance causes Sandy to flee in a huff. Rizzo fears she is pregnant after missing a period and confides in Marty, who tells Sonny, who inadvertently spreads the rumor to the apparent father Kenickie, though Rizzo denies it to him.

On race day, Kenickie is concussed by his own car door, so Danny takes the wheel, winning the race after Leo spins out. Sandy, watching from afar and rejoicing for Danny's victory, concludes she still loves him and enlists Frenchy's help in changing her attitude and looks to impress him.

On the last day of school, Rizzo finds she is not pregnant and reunites with Kenickie. At a carnival, Danny and Sandy each find they have changed for each other: Danny has become a letterman, and Sandy a greaser girl. The two depart in the Greased Lightnin' car, which takes flight into the sky.

####Grease 2####
It is 1961, two years after the events of the prior film, and the first day of school has arrived ("Alma Mater" from the original stage musical).  Principal McGee and her secretary Blanche react as  the students, including the ruffian T-Birds and Pink Ladies, arrive at high school ("Back to School Again"). The Pink Ladies are now led by Stephanie Zinone, who feels she has "outgrown" her relationship with her ex-boyfriend Johnny Nogerelli, the arrogant, chauvinistic, and rather immature leader of the motorcycle riding T-Birds.

A new arrival comes in the form of clean-cut British student Michael Carrington (a cousin of Sandy Olsson from the previous film). He is introduced to the school atmosphere by Frenchy, who agreed to help show Michael around. Frenchy has returned to Rydell to obtain her diploma so she can start her own cosmetics company. Michael eventually meets Stephanie and quickly becomes smitten with her.

At the local bowling alley, a game ("Score Tonight") turns sour from the animosity between Johnny and Stephanie. Stephanie retaliates by kissing the next man who walks in the door, who happens to be Michael. Bemused by this unexpected kiss, Michael falls in love with Stephanie. He asks her out, but learns she has a very specific vision of her ideal man ("Cool Rider"). After realizing how he can win her affection, Michael gets to work on acquiring a motorcycle. Michael begins to covertly accept payments from the T-Birds to write their term papers and uses the cash to buy a motorcycle. Substitute teacher Mr. Stuart leads a rousing biology lesson ("Reproduction").

A rival gang called the Cycle Lords (including members of the defunct Scorpions) led by Leo Balmudo, surprise the T-Birds at the bowling alley. Before the fight starts, a lone mysterious biker appears (actually Michael in disguise), defeats the enemy gang, and disappears into the night ("Who's That Guy?"). Stephanie is fascinated with the stranger. Meanwhile, T-Bird Louis attempts to trick his sweetheart, Pink Lady Sharon, into losing her virginity to him by taking her to a fallout shelter and faking a nuclear attack ("Let's Do It for Our Country").

The next evening while working at a gas station/garage, Stephanie is surprised again by the Cool Rider, and they enjoy a romantic twilight motorcycle ride, which includes a kiss. Just as Michael is about to reveal his identity, they are interrupted by the arrival of the T-Birds and Pink Ladies. Before Michael departs, he tells Stephanie that he will see her at the school talent show. Johnny, enraged by Stephanie's new romance, threatens to fight the Cool Rider if he sees him with her again. The Pink Ladies walk away haughtily, but this has little effect on the T-Birds' self-confidence ("Prowlin'").

At school, Stephanie's poor grades in English lead her to accept Michael's offer of help. Johnny, upon seeing them together in a discussion, demands that Stephanie quit the Pink Ladies to preserve his honor. Although still enchanted by the mysterious Cool Rider, interactions with Michael reveal that she has become romantically interested in him as well. Michael ponders over the continuing charade he puts on for Stephanie ("Charades").

At the talent show, Stephanie and the Cool Rider meet up but are abruptly ambushed by the T-Birds who pursue Michael on their respective motorcycles, with Stephanie, Sharon, Paulette, and Rhonda following in a car. They chase him to a construction site which conceals a deadly drop, and the biker's absence suggests that he has perished below, leaving Stephanie heartbroken and inconsolable. Johnny and his T-Birds remove the competing Preptones – preppie boys – by tying them to a shower pole in the boys' locker room and drenching them. During the Pink Ladies' performance in the talent show ("Girl for All Seasons"), Stephanie enters a dreamlike fantasy world where she is reunited with her mystery biker ("(Love Will) Turn Back the Hands of Time"). She is named winner of the contest and crowned the queen of the upcoming graduation luau, with Johnny hailed as king for his performance of "Prowlin'" with his fellow T-Birds.

The school year ends with the luau ("Rock-a-Hula Luau (Summer Is Coming)"), during which the Cycle Lords appear and begin to disrupt the celebration. The Cool Rider reappears, defeats the Cycle Lords again, and reveals himself to be Michael. Initially shocked, Johnny gives him a T-Birds jacket, officially welcoming him into the gang, and Stephanie is delighted that she can now be with him. Michael and Stephanie share a passionate kiss, and he whispers that he loves her. All the couples pair off happily as the graduating class sings ("We'll Be Together"). The credits start rolling in yearbook-style, as in the original film ("Back to School Again").

####The Great American Broadcast####
Impoverished roommates Rix Martin and Chuck Hadley have dreams of being the first to operate a coast-to-coast
radio broadcast. They invest what little profit their small station makes into advanced equipment and finally get their wish when they bootleg the Jack Dempsey--Jess Willard 1919 heavyweight title fight from ringside.

Meanwhile, the  station's band singer is surrounded by suitors---Payne, Oakie, and Chadwick, without
whose money the station could not operate.

####The Harvey Girls####
In the 1890s, a group of "Harvey Girls" – new waitresses for Fred Harvey's pioneering chain of Harvey House restaurants – travels on the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway to the American Southwest town of Sandrock. On the trip they meet Susan Bradley, who is travelling to the same town to marry the man whose beautiful letters she received when she answered a "lonely-hearts" ad.

Unfortunately, when she arrives, her husband-to-be turns out to be an "old coot" who does not at all meet her expectations.  They start to argue and list each other's personal faults, both claiming none was mentioned in each other's letters. With their mutual disinclination to continue with the marital union clear,  they jointly decide to call off the wedding.

With the marriage safely cancelled, he reveals to Susan that his letters were actually ghost-written as a joke by Ned Trent, the local saloon owner. Susan, rightly furious, confronts Ned to tell him off, in the process endearing herself to him.

Susan joins the Harvey Girls and she soon becomes their leader in fighting against the attempts by Trent's business associate, Judge Sam Purvis, to scare them away to maintain his own thriving business running the large saloon in town. The Harvey Girls also face the animosity of the so-called "dance-hall girls," led by Em, who is in love with Trent and sees Susan as a rival.

Trent visits the Harvey House, sees its value along with the other trappings of civilization, and then tells Purvis to leave them alone. Purvis continues with his campaign of intimidation, finally burning down the restaurant. Trent offers his saloon as a replacement and Em and the dance-hall girls leave town. Susan, thinking that Trent too is leaving, gets on the train, but Em, seeing that Susan loves Trent so much that she is willing to give up everything for him, stops the train and points out Trent, riding toward them on his horse. Ultimately, they wed in the desert, surrounded by the Harvey Girls.

####Here Come the Waves####
The film opens with naval scenes and a chorus of WAVES singing ‘The Navy Song’ on stage, and continues with a sister act, the Allison Twins (both played by Betty Hutton), singing the same song in a night club. Identical, except that one is blonde the other brunette, they are temperamentally very different. Susie, the blonde, is brash and scatter-brained, while Rosemary is serious and reliable. They leave their night club job to join the WAVES although Susie is extremely reluctant to do so. She is infatuated with popular singer Johnny Cabot (played by Bing Crosby) and fears that by joining the service she will never be able to meet him. Taking her collection of his records with her, however, she locks herself in the barracks washroom and plays Johnny’s record of ‘Moonlight Becomes You’.

The twins attend a show in which Johnny is starring and on-stage he sings ‘That Old Black Magic’. Back stage he finds an old friend, Windy Smith (Sonny Tufts), who has joined the Navy and Johnny explains that his own application has been refused because he is colour-blind. Together they visit the ‘21 Club’ and Windy meets the twins, whom he already knows, and introduces Johnny. Both men are attracted to Rosemary while Susie becomes even more infatuated with Johnny. Johnny is eventually accepted into the Navy and begins his training hoping for assignment to the ‘U.S.S. Douglas’, the ship on which his father had served with distinction, when its re-fitting has been completed. Rosemary is contemptuous of Johnny’s popularity with the other girls but when she is dining with Windy, Johnny joins them and by a trick arranges for Windy to be escorted out by a couple of Military Policemen. On the way back Johnny sings to Rosemary ‘Let’s Take the Long Way Home’ and Rosemary realises that she is in love with him.
In order to prevent his leaving to join the ‘Douglas’ Susie submits a suggestion for a show to be produced to aid WAVES recruitment and signs it with Johnny’s name. The suggestion is accepted and Johnny is placed as ‘Chief Specialist’ in charge of it. Thinking that Windy is responsible for the suggestion being put forward in his name Johnny chooses him as his assistant. A show is held aboard ‘U.S.S. Traverse Bay’ and Johnny, as an old postman, and Windy, as a commissionaire, both in black-face, sing ‘Ac-Cent-Tchu-Ate the Positive’ with the help of a chorus of WAVES.

When Rosemary learns from Windy about ‘Johnny’s’ suggestion she thinks he has made it to avoid active service. Johnny manages to get hold of the written suggestion with the intention of showing it to Rosemary to prove it is not his handwriting but Susie gets it from him. Rosemary disbelieves that he had the note and tells him that she is going to leave the show. Windy persuades Susie to don a dark wig and pretend to be Rosemary. In this guise she drinks from a spirits flask (actually cold tea) and is seen kissing Windy in order that Johnny will form an entirely wrong impression of Rosemary. He is thus faced with Rosemary’s disbelief and her apparent preference for Windy.
When the big show takes place Susie and other WAVES play in a sketch called ‘If WAVES Acted Like Sailors’ in which she sings ‘There’s a Fella Waiting in Poughkeepsie’, Johnny and Windy joining in the last few lines. Johnny, dispirited, writes a note for Windy and leaves. Windy, realising the true feeling between Johnny and Rosemary, explains the circumstances to her and, with Susie, goes after Johnny. Susie confesses to Johnny that it was she who sent in the suggestion and he returns to the show to duet with Rosemary ‘I Promise You’.

The closing chorus number on stage is ‘Here Come the WAVES’ and after the triumphantly successful show is finished arrangements are made for Johnny and Windy to be flown out to join the ‘U.S.S. Douglas’.

####Here Comes the Groom####
Newspaper reporter Pete (Bing Crosby) works in a Paris orphanage. His charming way with children and music enables him to find homes for even the most troubled kids. One afternoon, Mr. and Mrs. Godfrey (Alan Reed and Minna Gombell), an American couple, come to the orphanage to adopt Bobby, a boy they saw in one of the ads Pete ran in his newspaper. Bobby misbehaves, but when Pete discovers that Mr. Godfrey plays for the Boston Symphony Orchestra, he quickly produces a young blind opera wunderkind, Theresa (Anna Maria Alberghetti), who sings her way into the Godfreys' hearts.

Later that night, Pete dreams that the fiancée he left behind in America, Emmadel (Jane Wyman) has visited. She appears in a hologram atop his record player, scolding him for leaving her at the altar and talks about the children they might have had. Filled with regret, Pete arranges to adopt both Bobby and his little sister Suzi and bring them to Boston, where he'll marry Emmadel. American authorities inform him that he must marry within five days or the adoption will be void.

After delays in obtaining the children's birth certificates, they and Pete finally fly to Boston, and go to Emmadel's house. While she bonds with Bobby and Suzi, Pete discovers that Emmadel is engaged to an aristocratic man, Wilbur Stanley, whose office she works in. She had gotten tired of waiting for Pete's arrival home. The kids stay with her loud parents (drunken father James Barton, a fisherman, and disapproving mother Connie Gilchrist). Pete tries everything to win Emmadel back. She helps him secure a lease on a new house via her fiancé's company. However, when Pete and the children arrive at the house in the rain, they discover that another couple (the McGonigles) also have a lease for the property. Emmadel's fiancé Wilbur shows up to settle the matter. Wilbur offers Pete a ride to another house - but Pete talks him into letting them stay at the Stanley family's gatehouse. They agree to a friendly competition for Emmadel's heart during the few days leading up to the wedding.

Pete and the children settle into the Stanleys' lavish gatehouse, where Emmadel's parents are also staying. Emmadel meets Wilbur's amiable elderly relatives, who present her with $500,000 as a wedding gift. Her parents embarrass her by running screaming through the garden. Emma discovers Pete's presence and visits the gatehouse to have it out with him. After she pulls Suzi's loose tooth, Pete pretends to be in love with Winnifred, Wilbur's fourth cousin twice-removed, and laughs when Emmadel pratfalls on her huge party dress.

Pete reveals his plan to Winnifred Stanley. He discovers that she has long been in love with her cousin Wilbur, but feels too socially awkward to pursue him. In a bit of "Pygmalion", Pete teaches Winnifred to feel comfortable with herself. Winnifred's newfound confidence bubbles over at the wedding rehearsal. She and Emmadel erupt in a brawl on the front lawn. Winnifred concedes the fight, and Emmadel declares that she's proud to be a fisherman's daughter.

The wedding day arrives. News reporters line the outdoor chapel, proclaiming this the Cinderella story of the decade. As he escorts Emma down the aisle, Pa Jones tells her that Pete kidnapped the children and ran so they wouldn't be sent back to France. Emmadel begins to have second thoughts. Pete shows up at precisely the wrong moment, handcuffed to a policeman, with both crying kids in tow. Although Wilbur offers to marry Emma and adopt the children, Bobby and Suzi cling sobbing to Pete. On national television, Wilbur abandons his own wedding and forces a reluctant Emma and a protesting (but secretly thrilled) Pete to marry. Pete, Emmadel, Bobby, Suzi, Ma and Pa Jones all ride off for their honeymoon together.

####High School Musical####
On New Year's Eve, high school juniors Troy Bolton and Gabriella Montez meet at a ski lodge party during winter break. The two are called upon to sing a duet together for karaoke ("Start of Something New"). Returning to school after the break, Troy sees Gabriella in his homeroom. She explains that she has just moved to Albuquerque, New Mexico, and transferred to East High School over the break. As Troy shows Gabriella around the school, drama club president Sharpay Evans assumes that Gabriella is interested in auditioning for the school musical. Wanting to eliminate the competition, Sharpay discovers Gabriella's past academic achievements, and anonymously informs scholastic decathlon captain Taylor McKessie of them, so she will recruit Gabriella for the team. Taylor and Gabriella become friends over their shared interests.

During a basketball practice, Troy is distracted by thoughts of Gabriella and the idea that he might enjoy singing in addition to basketball ("Get'cha Head in the Game"). Gabriella and Troy go to the musical auditions where Sharpay and her twin brother Ryan Evans perform "What I've Been Looking For". However, Troy and Gabriella are hesitant to audition. When Gabriella gains the confidence to step forward once the auditions are unofficially declared "over", Troy offers to sing with her. However, drama teacher Ms. Darbus tells them they are too late and leaves. Kelsi Nielsen, the musical's composer, drops her music sheets on the stage; Troy and Gabriella rush to help her and sing the same song together. Overhearing their performance, Ms. Darbus gives them a callback audition.

When the callback list gets posted, Sharpay is furious that she has competition for the lead role, while the Wildcats basketball team is shocked that Troy has auditioned. After finding out that Troy can do activities outside his clique, other students confess their secret passions and talents ("Stick to the Status Quo"). This alarms Taylor and Troy's best friend Chad Danforth. Taylor and Chad come up with a plan to divert Troy and Gabriella from singing in the musical so they can focus on their upcoming competitions.

In the locker room, Troy is tricked by his teammates into saying that Gabriella and the audition are not important to him. Gabriella watches this via a hidden webcam that the scholastic decathlon team has set up. Upset by Troy's perceived betrayal and callous disregard for her ("When There Was Me and You"), Gabriella decides to not audition for the musical, and distances herself from Troy. Troy, confused by Gabriella's behavior, is unable to concentrate on the game, while Gabriella is low in spirits. Realizing their mistake, Chad and the basketball team tell Troy what happened and offer to support him in the callbacks. Taylor also explains to Gabriella that she was wrong but Gabriella dismisses this, believing Troy meant what he said. That evening, Troy goes to Gabriella's house where he explains the truth and they reconcile, determined to audition for the musical.

Overhearing Gabriella and Troy rehearse, Sharpay asks Ms. Darbus to move the callbacks so they start at the same time as both Troy's championship game and Gabriella's scholastic decathlon competition. Kelsi overhears the conversation, and both the basketball and decathlon teams make a plan together. On the day of the competitions, Taylor and Gabriella use the school's computers to delay the championship game by hacking the power in the gym and causing a chemical reaction that forces an evacuation during the decathlon. Troy and Gabriella rush to the auditorium as Sharpay and Ryan finish their callback song ("Bop to the Top"). After Gabriella and Troy successfully perform their song "Breaking Free", Ms. Darbus gives them the lead roles, making Sharpay and Ryan understudies. Both teams win their respective competitions, and the entire school gathers in the gym to celebrate ("We're All in This Together"). Chad asks Taylor out, and Sharpay makes a truce with Gabriella.

In a post-credits scene, Zeke Baylor paces alone in the gym, when Sharpay runs in, declaring that the cookies he had given her that she had initially rejected are "genius". She hugs him, and he says he will make her a crème brûlée. Zeke smiles in victory.

####High School Musical 3: Senior Year####
East High's Wildcats basketball team compete against their long-time rival, the West High Knights, in the final game of the season. At the half, Troy rallies his teammates and wins the game. During the team's celebration, Troy and Gabriella discuss their unknown future and the short time they have left at East High.

The next day, at school, Ms. Darbus notices the lack of students signing up for the musical, and Sharpay suggests a one-woman show. Kelsi signs up everyone in homeroom, much to the class' dismay. Ms. Darbus announces that the show will be called "Senior Year", focusing on the future of the graduating seniors, and reveals that Sharpay, Ryan, Kelsi, and Troy have all been considered for a scholarship at Juilliard School, but only one will be chosen. Sharpay becomes desperate to win and, knowing that Kelsi will give the best songs to Troy and Gabriella, gets Ryan to try to persuade Kelsi to give them a song by predicting her and Ryan's future. Sharpay later befriends Tiara Gold, a British transfer student, and they begin working together.

While on the rooftop, Troy asks Gabriella to prom and she teaches him how to dance, while Taylor refuses Chad's attempt to ask her to the dance. She later relents when Chad asks again in front of the students during lunch. The group rehearses for the musical with a scene about their prom night. The next day, Ryan and Kelsi rehearse, which leads to Ryan asking Kelsi to prom, while Troy and Chad reminisce about their past in Reilly's Auto Parts. Tiara learns Gabriella has been accepted into the Stanford Freshman's Honors Program and informs Sharpay, who, in turn, informs Troy and convinces him that he is the only thing keeping Gabriella from going. Troy convinces Gabriella to go, and she leaves for college the next day.

Troy and his father, Jack, argue about which college he will attend, and Troy drives to East High conflicted until he finally screams at the top of his lungs in the theater. Witnessing this, Ms. Darbus reveals that she sent in his application for Juilliard. Troy gets a call from Gabriella saying that although she loves him, she will not return to Albuquerque for prom nor graduation. However, on the day of the dance, Troy visits Gabriella at Stanford University and they have their own dance. Meanwhile, Sharpay prepares for the musical at East High, and Troy texts his teammate Jimmie "Rocket Man" Zara to be his understudy because he is going to be late to the show.

Kelsi and Ryan start the show. As Troy and Gabriella's understudy, Jimmie performs with Sharpay and embarrasses her, although the audience applauds. Troy and Gabriella appear during the second half of the show and sing their duet together. Tiara betrays Sharpay, telling her she will take over the drama department next year. Sharpay finally learns how it feels to be manipulated and humiliated, but ultimately joins Tiara's performance and upstages her as payback.

At the end of the musical, Ms. Darbus reveals that both Kelsi and Ryan have won the Juilliard scholarship, and Troy reveals he has chosen to attend the University of California, Berkeley to be close to Gabriella, play basketball, and perform in theater. Taylor reveals that she will be attending Yale University with honors to study political science, and Sharpay and Chad reveal they will attend the University of Albuquerque for performing arts and basketball, respectively. At the graduation ceremony, Troy gives the class speech after being selected by Ms. Darbus, and everyone celebrates their graduation. The six leads walk toward the stage and take their final bows as the curtain closes.

####High Society####
Successful singer-composer C.K. Dexter-Haven (the grandson of a Newport "robber baron") is divorced from wealthy Newport, Rhode Island socialite Tracy Samantha Lord. Dexter, who lives next door to the Lord estate, remains in love with her but she is now engaged to socially prominent and snobbish George Kittredge. As Tracy prepares for her upcoming wedding, Dexter is busily organizing elements of the Newport Jazz Festival.

Meanwhile, "Spy", a fictional tabloid newspaper, possesses embarrassing information about Tracy's errant father, Seth Lord, and has coerced the family into allowing reporter Mike Connor and photographer Liz Imbrie to cover the nuptials. Tracy, resenting their forced presence, begins an elaborate charade, including introducing her Uncle Willy as her father, while Seth is passed off as "wicked" Uncle Willy.

As a wedding gift, Dexter gives Tracy a scale model of their former sailboat, "True Love," which evokes her memories about their happy honeymoon aboard it. Tracy gradually realizes George knows little about her true self and has instead created an idealized image of her. When Tracy drives Mike around Newport, he notices some neglected mansions; Tracy explains many owners have been forced to board up or sell off their properties due to high taxes. Her Uncle Willy is selling his own estate. The two form a mutual attraction, leaving Tracy to choose from three very different men during a course of self-discovery. During the wedding-eve party at Uncle Willy's house, George catches a tipsy Tracy kissing Dexter on the patio. George leaves Tracy in an empty room to sober up but, still tipsy, she climbs out the window and runs into Mike. George finds her again after she and Mike have had a swim in the Lords' pool. The next day, Tracy has hazy memories of the previous night. She initially intends to go through with the wedding, then prods George into agreeing to call it off. While informing the waiting guests the wedding is canceled, Dexter suddenly proposes that he be the groom. Knowing she loves him, Tracy accepts. Liz and Mike, who now realize they love each other, tell Tracy and Dexter that they are not writing a story about the wedding or other events to protect the family's privacy.

####High Society Blues####
A new country family comes to live among established wealthy neighbors.

####Hips, Hips, Hooray!####
Todd stars as Amelia Frisby, the owner of a beauty supply business. Andy Williams (Wheeler) and Dr. Bob Dudley (Woolsey) convince her to hire them as salesman to promote her new flavored lipstick. The film features Etting singing "Keep Romance Alive" and Bert Wheeler and Dorothy Lee singing "Keep on Doin' What You're Doin'" by Bert Kalmar and Harry Ruby.

####Hollywood Canteen####
Two soldiers on leave spend three nights at the Hollywood Canteen before returning to active duty in the South Pacific. Slim Green (Robert Hutton) is the millionth GI to enjoy the Canteen, and consequently wins a date with Joan Leslie. The other GI, Sergeant Nolan (Dane Clark) gets to dance with Joan Crawford. Canteen founders Bette Davis and John Garfield give talks on the history of the Canteen. The soldiers enjoy a variety of musical numbers performed by a host of Hollywood stars, and also comedians, such as Jack Benny and his violin.

####Hollywood Hotel####
Saxophone player and singer Ronnie Bowers, is on his way to Hollywood, having been signed to a ten-week contract by All Star Pictures. At the airport, his former employer, Benny Goodman, and his band give him a big sendoff, performing "Hooray for Hollywood".

In Hollywood, temperamental star Mona Marshall becomes furious when she learns that another actress has landed a part she desperately wanted. As a result, she refuses to attend the premiere of her latest movie.

Publicist Bernie Walton convinces studio boss B. L. Faulkin to substitute a double. Bernie chooses Virginia Stanton, who has already worked as a stand-in for Mona. For her escort, Bernie chooses an unsuspecting (and starstruck) Ronnie. The charade works. Everyone, from Ronnie to Louella Parsons to the radio host at the premiere is fooled. Things take an unexpected turn when Ronnie and Virginia begin to fall in love, wading in a fountain pond and singing "I'm Like a Fish Out of Water".

The next day, Bernie takes Ronnie to lunch at the restaurant where Virginia is working as a waitress, to break the news of his date's real identity. Ronnie and Virginia begin dating.

When Mona reads in the newspaper that "she" was at the premiere with Ronnie, she forces Faulkin to buy the young man out of his contract. Photographer Fuzzy Boyle appoints himself Ronnie's agent, and they make the rounds, trying to get his acting career started, without success. The two end up employed at a drive-in. When Ronnie sings during work, director Walter Kelton is impressed and offers him a job. Ronnie is disappointed to learn, however, that he will not be acting, but only dubbing the singing for Mona's longtime screen partner, Alex Dupre.

Dupre's "singing" impresses the audience at the preview. When Louella Parsons invites him to perform on her radio program, he accepts without thinking. Desperate, All Star Pictures pays Ronnie an exorbitant fee to sing for the actor. However, Ronnie has his own ideas. Virginia (posing as Mona) picks up Dupre in a limousine driven by Fuzzy. The pair drive him out into the countryside so he misses the program. Ronnie substitutes for Dupre and is a hit, so Faulkin decides to re-sign him, at a larger salary.

####Honey####
Honey Daniels works as a bartender, a record store clerk and a dance teacher at a community center run by her mother in NYC. Her dream is to become a hip hop choreographer, though her mother presses her to teach ballet uptown.

Honey and her rival Katrina are recorded having a dance off. Honey and her friend Gina find brothers Benny and Raymond street dancing and invite them to Honey's classes.

The dance-off video reaches video director Michael Ellis, who gives Honey a job as a backup dancer and asks Honey to replace his choreographer. Soon, her career brings money, fame and freedom, but takes her away from the center and the neighborhood kids.

Raymond tells Honey Benny got into a fight, in which their mother’s boyfriend split Benny's lip. Honey offers Benny a job as her assistant if he keeps out of trouble. She convinces Michael to use the kids she teaches in Ginuwine's new video. Honey begins dating Raymond's barber Chaz, who inspires her to focus on her happiness and not on the fame. She puts down a deposit on an old store she can turn into a dance studio.

When Michael says they cannot miss an important meeting, Honey cancels plans to take Gina to Atlantic City for her birthday. However, it turns out to actually be a networking party, where Michael drunkenly hits on her. She slaps him and leaves. Gina is furious to see a newspaper photo of Honey being kissed at the party she claimed was work. At the Ginuwine shoot, Michael reneges on having the kids in the video and fires her, showing up on set with Katrina.

The kids are heartbroken. Benny returns to drug dealing and lands in juvy after being busted. When Honey visits, she offers to help him once he is released, but he responds by insulting and belittling her. She tries to tell Benny how heartbroken and disappointed she is in his decisions, but he tells her to leave. As she prepares to do so, she asks how often Benny's gangster friends have visited him. Benny becomes speechless and saddened as he realizes that none of his "friends" have bothered to visit him even once. As she leaves, he realizes how disappointed Honey is with him and how she cared enough to visit following his "friends'" abandonment and his mother and brother's refusal to see him due to their own disappointment in him. Benny also realizes that he has mainly disappointed himself by making bad life choices that could get him killed or imprisoned for life. He also shows regret for being hostile towards Honey, realizing that she cared enough to offer him help.

Honey is relieved when Gina forgives her; she makes Honey realize she can achieve her hopes and dreams, but she has to start believing and trusting in herself more often. Meanwhile, since the ruined Ginuwine video, Honey's income has dried up due to Michael blackballing her in the industry. The remainder of the down payment must be paid or the store will go back on the market. Honey decides to hold a dance benefit at an abandoned church and newly-released Benny brings his dance friends to help.

Michael pushes Katrina as choreographer for a Missy Elliott video, but Missy says Katrina's sexy dance moves are not for her and she only wants Honey. Michael begs Honey to come back again, offering to buy her the studio. Realizing that the artists want her back, she refuses, declaring she will pay for the studio herself. She berates Michael for his arrogance, pointing out that not only did he blackball her out of pettiness, he also betrayed the kids.

Gina's bank manager asks arts donors to attend the benefit, which is a full house and everyone is enthusiastic about the performances. Honey's mother finally sees that the dance form her daughter loves can give her everything that ballet could. The bank manager assures Honey the building is fully funded.

Missy Elliott arrives as the benefit finishes, rushing in to meet Honey. She introduces Honey to R&B group Blaque at her new dance studio, "The Bronx Dance Center", to prepare their new video.

####Honey 3: Dare to Dance####
At a prestigious South African school, American dance student Melea Martin (Cassie Ventura) plans a thesis presentation based on a modern-day hip-hop adaptation of "Romeo and Juliet" with her love interest Erik Wildwood (Kenny Wormald) to honor her late mother's memory. However, Melea's dreams are dashed when she's unable to pay tuition and is forced to leave.

Determined to fulfill her destiny, she decides to rent a failing theater and persuade the community to support her artistic and unique vision, including childhood friend Nadine (Dena Kaplan) and classmate Laser (Bobby Lockwood). She meets a rival during a club dance battle, Ishani Mfeke (Sibo Mlambo), who is reeling from the loss of her brother and has a hardened exterior. However, when Malea asks her to choreograph the production together, the two form an unlikely partnership.

When adrenaline-filled rehearsals cause dance crew rivals and egos to get in the way, everything falls apart much like Shakespeare's Capulets and Montagues. Amid romantic love triangles and personal conflicts, Melea dares to dream and risks it all to put on a performance the Cape Town community won't forget.

####Honolulu Lu####
In Hawaii, Consuelo Cordoba (Lupe Vélez) is a risque nightclub act and due to her involvement with a group of sailors becomes a beauty queen.

####House Party 3####
Christopher, a.k.a. Kid is marrying his girlfriend Veda, while his best friend Peter, a.k.a. Play is dipping his fingers into the music business and attempting to manage a roughneck female rap act called Sex as a Weapon. Play books the ladies for a concert with heavy-hitting promoter Showboat, but when they decide to fire Play and hire a new manager, he has to figure out how to deliver them to the show or face the wrath of Showboat's female security force. Kid and Play talk about their dream to one day open a store to sell their favorite sandwich.

Things eventually begin to spiral out of control for the two, as Play is also planning the bachelor party while trying to keep Kid's three younger cousins from Detroit (who ironically call themselves Immature) in line, and Kid's ex-girlfriend Sydney has come back to town, which is news that doesn't please Veda at all. To complicate matters more Kid's cousins hijack his bachelor party in retaliation for not letting them perform at it (moving it from the rented hotel ballroom to their Aunt Lucy's house) The party at the ballroom is a bust as Play's cousin Stinky invites very obese women to the party (he's attracted to heavyset women). Meanwhile, Showboat has been out looking for Kid & Play for his money but gets sidetracked briefly by Kid's mischievous cousins. Embarrassed by the poor turnout at his party Kid bails into the corridor and runs into Sydney (who is there for her grandparents' anniversary party). Sydney congratulates Kid and tells him that Veda is good for him. As they hug and part ways Veda comes out of the elevator and sees them hugging. She immediately jumps to the conclusion that Kid slept with her but her Cousin Janelle (who had been dogging Kid and the pending marriage throughout the film) comes to his defense and tell Veda she is wrong to assume Kid cheated. At the same time Play (who also disagreed with Kid getting married) tells Kid he is wrong for wanting to break off the marriage since he's convinced Veda doesn't trust him.

After Kid and Veda make up they get a phone call from Kid's Uncle Vester about the party Immature is throwing and head back to his Aunt Lucy's house to find an out of control party in progress (unbeknownst to Aunt Lucy who was up in her room). Just as Kid starts to curse his cousins out Play stops him and convinces him to celebrate his bachelor party here. At that moment Showboat arrives with his female hitmen and are about to attack Kid & Play when he hears Kid's cousins performing at the party, Kid picks up on this and immediately informs Showboat that they were a new act he and Play were working on. Sex as a Weapon arrives and tells Showboat that they didn't like what was done to the three blind rappers earlier in the film (they were stiffed on the pay for a show) so they opted to come back to Kid & Play giving Showboat two new acts instead of just one. Showboat  pays up and everything is seemingly coming back into their control. Even Immature knows how much of an irritation they were so in that resolve they opt to give Kid half of the cash from the party. This cash, however is taken by Aunt Lucy who revealed that she knew all along that there was a party going on and that the money would be just enough to clean her house after it was over. After the drama has settled, Kid & Play enjoy the party and perform one last time together rapping to the crowd along with Sex as A Weapon.

The next day Kid and Veda finally tie the knot. Play gifts Kid with a brand new Jeep, telling him that their production company is going to be huge. He accepts the Jeep as he and Veda ride off into the sunset.

####How to Stuff a Wild Bikini####
Frankie (Avalon) goes to Tahiti on Naval Reserve duty. While cavorting with local girls, Frankie realizes that Dee Dee (Annette Funicello) might be unfaithful to him. When Frankie seeks help from a witch doctor (Buster Keaton), the witch doctor sends a sea beauty, Cassandra (Beverly Adams), to lure Ricky (Dwayne Hickman), an advertising executive, away from Dee Dee.

Upon Cassandra's arrival, the beach turns upside down, as all the surfers fall for her, an executive wants to make her a model, and Eric Von Zipper (Harvey Lembeck) and his motorcycle gang add to the trouble.

####How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying####
J. Pierrepont Finch (Robert Morse) buys the book "How to Succeed in Business", describing in step-by-step fashion how to rise in the business world. The ambitious young window cleaner follows its advice carefully. He joins the "World-Wide Wicket Company" and begins work in the mail room. Soon, thanks to the ethically questionable advice in the book, he rises to vice president of advertising by having each person above him either fired or moved or transferred within the company.

Finch begins to fall in love with Rosemary Pilkington (Michele Lee), a secretary at the company. Finch finds out that J.B. Biggley (Rudy Vallee), the president of the company, has made advances towards Hedy LaRue (Maureen Arthur), a beautiful but incompetent woman the company has hired. Finch uses this information to assist his climb on the corporate ladder.

Biggley's annoying nephew, Bud Frump (Anthony Teague), also takes advantage of the situation and tries to get to the top before Finch. By story's end, however, Finch has become chairman of the board, and might make the White House his next step to success.

####Hullabaloo####
Morgan is the star of the film, as fading actor Frankie Merriweather, who is trying to revive his career by starring on a radio program. When his most recent broadcast, a science fiction invasion from Mars story, panics the nation, he is fired. He decides to jumpstart his career by creating a new show which features his talented children.

####The I Don't Care Girl####
The story of vaudeville performer Eva Tanguay (Mitzi Gaynor) is told to a couple of writers who plan to do a script about her for Hollywood producer George Jessel.

Her former partner Eddie McCoy (David Wayne) tells how they met. Recently widowed, he discovered Eva as a waitress, hearing her sing and offering her a job after she's fired. Eva falls for singer Larry Woods (Bob Graham), although piano player Charles Bennett (Oscar Levant) also has eyes for her. Eva is offended and sets out on her own when she finds out that Larry is married.

Bennett is found by the writers and claims Eddie's story is untrue. Eva was already singing in a cafe when she and Eddie first met. Unable to get Eddie to sober up, she breaks up their act and is discovered by Florenz Ziegfeld, who signs Eva for his famed Follies.

She learns that Larry's marriage is on the rocks, but is put off when the leading role in Larry's new operetta is apparently going to Stella (Hazel Brooks), another singer. Eva hires someone to throw tomatoes at Larry on stage, unaware that when he steps out to perform, Larry, having enlisted to fight in the war, will be wearing his Army uniform. Eva's prank backfires and she is disconsolate for quite a while, but in the end, Larry wins her back.

####I Love Melvin####
Small-time actress Judy Schneider dreams of becoming a Hollywood star even as she struggles along playing a human football in a kitschy Broadway musical. One day in Central Park she bumps into Melvin, the bumbling assistant to a "Look" magazine photographer. Melvin is smitten with Judy and endures disapproval from her father who wants her to marry Harry Flack, the boring heir to a paper box company. He exaggerates his importance at the magazine in order to impress Judy and her family and promises to get her on the cover, using the photo shoots as an excuse to spend time with her. His charade is exposed when her picture doesn't appear on the cover and she discovers that he is just a lowly assistant. Too ashamed to face her, Melvin abandons his job and disappears into Central Park. While hiding in the Park he sees Judy's picture on the cover of "Look" and discovers that the editor made her a cover girl so he would see it and come out of hiding.

####I Wonder Who's Kissing Her Now####
Set in the turn of the 20th century, the film focuses on Joseph E. Howard, an aspiring songwriter who happily sells a song to performer Lulu Madison, who later takes sole credit for the writing. He angrily confronts her, but she distracts him by seducing him in her hotel suite. Thinking that she can use Joe's talent for her career, she invites him to serve as her personal piano player on her tour. He accepts her invitation and bids farewell to Katie, the young niece of his guardian John McCullem who reluctantly says goodbye.

Over the following period, Joe grows to become a successful songwriter. Katie follows him to Philadelphia and joins the tour by lying, saying that her uncle has died. Katie's presence distracts Joe, much to Lulu's anger and jealousy. Although Lulu makes sure it obvious to Katie she is not happy about her presence, Katie remains unaffected and continues supporting Joe in his career, rather than working for Lulu. One evening, Lulu tries to cancel Joe's performance, and Katie responds by ruining Lulu's costume, thus making it possible for Joe to perform his latest song, which is received with wild applause.

After being fired by Lulu, Joe and Katie form their own group, working for producers Karl and Kassel. However, Joe is later seduced by attractive performer Fritzi Barrington to work for her. They are successful, but their collaboration proves short-lived, as Fritzi's financial supporter, a flame from the past, is jealous of Joe's connection to her and withdraws. Joe and Fritzi are able to perform a show, though, and it proves to be a major success. They eventually make their debut on Broadway and work together for a while, until Fritzi retires to marry Martin Webb.

Joe, feeling betrayed, blames Katie for scaring away Fritzi, as Katie is her understudy in the show. Sometime later, Joe finds out Katie is working under the stage name Pat O'Dare, performing 'I Wonder Who's Kissing Her Now', an unpublished song by Joe. Katie is surprised to see him, and they eventually kiss each other.

####I'll Be Yours####
Louise Ginglebusher (Deanna Durbin) is a young woman from the small town of Cobbleskill who comes to New York City to make it in show business.  In a café, she's befriended by a kindhearted but ornery waiter, Wechsberg (William Bendix), and meets a bearded struggling attorney, George Prescott (Tom Drake).  She gets a job as an usherette from Mr. Buckingham (Walter Catlett), the owner of the prestigious Buckingham Music Hall, who's an old friend of her father.

While working at the Music Hall she meets Wechsberg again, and later when she is accosted by a masher, she gets rid of him by claiming that Wechsberg is her husband.  Wechsberg then invites her to come with him the next night when he works at an upscale social gathering at the Savoy Ritz.  Louise borrows a gown and comes to the party, where they get her past the headwaiter by claiming she's one of the entertainers.  Mingling, she meets the host, J. Conrad Nelson (Adolphe Menjou), a philandering meat magnate, who requests that Louise sing a song.  She does, so beautifully that Nelson offers to star her in a Broadway musical.  To discourage Nelson's obvious physical interest in her, Louise tell him that she's married, whereupon Nelson offers buy her out of her marriage by paying her husband for his loss.  Impetuously deciding to do a good deed, she gives Nelson the business card that George Prescott, the struggling lawyer, had given her, and tells him that George is her husband.

When Nelson visits George the next day in his shabby storefront law office, and offers to make him the legal representative for his company, George is suspicious and refuses the offer, but Nelson allays his concerns by telling the ethical young attorney that he needs an honest lawyer as a role model for his staff &ndash; the truth is he wants George on his staff so he can keep him occupied while he pursues Louise.  Many complications ensue after Louise gets George to shave off his old-man's beard, revealing the handsome young man underneath, and a stroll in the moonlight provokes George to propose marriage to Louise.

####I'll Get By####
Song plugger Bill Spencer runs into Liza Martin, literally. He slams a door into her accidentally while rushing to bring a new recording to Peter Pepper, an influential New York disc jockey. The record breaks.

After he is fired, Bill opens his own music publishing business. He hires a secretary, Miss Murphy, and gains a partner in Freddy Lee, a young man from Texas, with whom he peddles a song that piano player Chester Dooley has written. They hear the singer Terry Martin is performing with trumpeter Harry James at a club, so they go there to pitch the song to her. Terry's sister is also in the act; she is Liza, the girl Bill once awkwardly met.

Freddy annoys Terry but the girls like the song, "I'll Get By," and agree to record it. Before long, it and they become huge successes. But, before a benefit in Hollywood, when the actress Jeanne Crain asks to perform the song, Bill says no because he promised it to Liza, but behind his back, Freddy agrees to let the actress have it. A furious Liza leaves Bill and refuses to listen to his attempts to explain.

The boys are drafted into the Marines, and when they report to a San Diego base, they run into Miss Murphy, who is now stationed there as an officer. After the boys ship out for duty, Miss Murphy goes out of her way to explain to Liza and Terry what happened with the song. The girls go on a USO show tour to the South Pacific where the guys have been sent, and all are reunited.

####I'll Take Romance####
An opera manager (Melvyn Douglas) tries to woo a contract-breaking soprano (Grace Moore) into performing in Buenos Aires.

####I'm No Angel####
Tira (Mae West) shimmies and sings in the sideshow of Big Bill Barton's Wonder Show, while her current boyfriend, pickpocket "Slick" (Ralf Harolde), relieves her distracted audience of their valuables for Big Bill (Edward Arnold). One of the rich customers, Ernest Brown, arranges a private rendezvous, during which Slick barges in and attempts to run a badger game on the customer. The customer threatens to call the cops, so Slick whacks him over the head with a bottle. Mistakenly thinking he has killed the man, Slick flees, but is caught and jailed.

Fearing that Slick will implicate her, Tira asks Big Bill for a loan to retain her lawyer, Bennie Pinkowitz (Gregory Ratoff). He agrees on condition that she does her lion taming act, which includes putting her head into the mouth of one of the beasts, promising her that it will get her (and him) to the "Big Show". It does. (West did some of her own stunts, including riding an elephant into the ring.citation needed|date = July 2014)

Tira's fame takes her to New York City, where wealthy Kirk Lawrence (Kent Taylor) is smitten, despite being engaged to snobbish socialite Alicia Hatton (Gertrude Michael). He showers her with expensive gifts. Kirk's friend and even richer cousin, Jack Clayton (Cary Grant), goes to see Tira to ask her to leave Kirk and his fiancée alone. He ends up falling for her himself. Tira and Jack’s romance leads to a wedding engagement.

Tira tells Big Bill she is quitting to get married. Unwilling to lose his prize act, he has Slick, recently released from prison, sneak into Tira's penthouse suite, where Jack finds him in his robe. As a result, Jack breaks off the engagement. Tira sues Jack for breach of promise. The defense tries to use her past relationships to discredit her, but the judge allows her to cross examine the witnesses herself and in doing so she wins over not only the judge and jury, but also Jack. Jack agrees to give her a big settlement check. When he goes to see her, Tira tears up the check, and the two reconcile.

####In the Good Old Summertime####
In turn-of-the century America, Andrew and Veronica are co-workers in a music shop who dislike one another during business hours but unwittingly carry on an anonymous romance through the mail.

####It Happened in Brooklyn####
Danny Miller is with a group of GIs awaiting transportation home to the US. On his last night there, he meets Jamie Shellgrove, who is a very shy young man whose grandfather feels should be taken under someone's wing. After observing Miller come to his grandson's aid at the piano, he asks Danny to speak with his son, to give him "some words of encouragement". In order to look good in front of the Brooklyn-born nurse who scolded him for not making friends, he agrees, even going so far as to saying what would really fix Jamie up would be for him to come to Brooklyn. As he rushes out to catch his transport to the docks for the voyage home, Danny discovers that Jamie is really the heir to a duke. Upon Danny's return to Brooklyn, the film revolves around characters realizing their dreams of escaping working-class drudgery: in Sinatra's case to become a singer/musician rather than a shipping clerk, in Lawford's case to break out of his extreme shyness to gain a wife and a career as a songwriter, and in Grayson's case to break out of her school teaching job to star in the opera (although this last is not shown coming to pass, but she presumably lives happily ever after as she is brought to England as the fiancée of the Lawford character, who is heir to a dukedom). The story ends with Danny realizing the nurse he talked to at the start of the film is the only girl for him, and since he figures she's got to be back in Brooklyn herself, and he's got all kinds of friends now, he's optimistic about finding and winning her.

####It Started with Eve####
The millionaire Jonathan Reynolds is dying, and his son Johnny returns from Mexico City to his deathbed. The attending physician, Dr. Harvey, informs Johnny that his father does not have much time to live and that his last wish is to get to know Johnny's future wife. Johnny drives quickly to his hotel to find his fiancée, Gloria Pennington, but she has left with her mother. Desperate, he asks Anne Terry if she can play Gloria for an evening. She agrees. She is kind to the dying man and he is pleased with her manner.

To everyone's surprise, the father feels much better than expected the next morning and asks if he can see his son's fiancée once again. Dr. Harvey is still concerned about the health of his patient and asks Johnny to keep pretending that Anne is Gloria. Johnny catches Anne at the train station as she is about to leave for her hometown and convinces her to return with him.

He and Anne arrive home, to find that Gloria and her mother have suddenly appeared there. Johnny tries to explain the situation. At the same time, Anne, who is an aspiring opera singer, learns of the father's New York opera world contacts. She suggests giving a party for the elderly Jonathan to show off her vocal ability. Johnny agrees, but wants to introduce his father to his real fiancée, by telling the father that he and Gloria (Anne) are separated, and his new girlfriend is the real Gloria. Anne asks him to wait until after the party, but Johnny refuses.

The next evening, Johnny informs his father about the separation. At this moment, Anne falls into the room and asks for Johnny's forgiveness. Johnny is almost forced by his father to forgive her. When Jonathan leaves the room, he, however, learns the true story through the ensuing loud dispute between Anne and Johnny. Gloria and her mother are now fully satisfied. Again, they see Johnny with Anne, but, this time, Johnny's mouth is covered by lipstick marks. Deciding that enough is enough, the mother and daughter leave yet again.

At last, the day of the party arrives. Jonathan is back in good health, and Johnny goes to the party with Gloria and her mother, explaining to his father that Anne has a headache and cannot attend. Jonathan then sets off to see Anne. He tells her that he knows the true story, but wants to go out for a farewell dinner between old friends. They go to a nightclub where they drink and dance together. Jonathan secretly sends word to Johnny to come to the club. When Johnny and Dr. Harvey arrive, Johnny accuses Anne of endangering his father's life. Anne flings his drink in his face and leaves.

The next day, Johnny catches Anne once again at the station to tell her that his father has had another heart attack and wants to see her. They rush to the mansion, only to find that Jonathan is fine—it was his doctor who collapsed. Jonathan just took advantage of the mixup to bring the young couple back together. Johnny and Anne recognize their true feelings for each other, which pleases Jonathan.

####It's a Bikini World####
Young surfer, local beach jock and ladies' man Mike Samson meets Delilah Dawes. At first, he tries to add her to his collection of women, but she rejects him because she finds him chauvinistic and shallow, so he disguises himself as a nerdy twin brother named Herbert.

Publisher Harvey Pulp plans to start a new magazine called "Teen Scream". To publicize the venture, he joins forces with Daddy, a car, surfboard and skateboard customizer and owner of local music club The Dungeon. Pulp and Daddy organize a series of contests, and Delilah competes against Mike with the encouragement of Mike's fake brother and alternate identity Herbert in various events, and loses each time. However, Mike finds that he is falling in love with her. Delilah finds out about the deception. The two compete in a final race using various vehicles.

####It's a Date####
Georgia Drake (Kay Francis) performs on stage, singing "Gypsy Lullaby"; her daughter, Pamela (Deanna Durbin), watches with her boyfriend Freddie Miller (Lewis Howard). They have come down from Maine, where they are part of a summer theater. Georgia is a renowned Broadway actress; this is closing night, and she is going to Hawaii for a rest before starting any new play. Her daughter, Pam, also has great acting skills and hopes to follow in her mother's and grandmother's footsteps. At the after-party, Pamela convinces director Sidney Simpson (Samuel S. Hinds) and writer Carl Ober (S.Z. Sakall) to come up to Maine and see the theater group. After the party ends, Pamela sings "Love is All" while she massages her mother's neck. Claudia's dresser, Sara (Cecilia Loftus), who also worked with Georgia's famous mother and is now a member of the family, accompanies her on the piano.

Only the audience knows that Carl came to this country to see Georgia perform, and having seen her he believes that she is too old for the part of 20-year-old St. Anne in his new play.  Sidney and Carl go to Maine and decide to try out the second act with the theater group, with Pamela in the role of St. Anne. During the performance, Pamela sings, "Loch Lomond." Pamela's performance is a revelation, and they offer her the role of St. Anne. Pamela is very excited, and promises to work hard, but does not know she is taking over a role that her mother assumes to be hers.

Sidney tells Pamela to go away someplace quiet and learn the script, and without telling him, Pamela travels to Hawaii to ask her mother to coach her. On her journey, pineapple king John Arlen (Walter Pidgeon) notices her practicing the play. He thinks that she is a troubled girl who just got jilted by her love, and sets out to distract her by posing as a stowaway, with the help of his friend, the ship's captain. Eventually they figure out the truth about each other and become friends. Pamela arrives in Honolulu, only to find that her mother is not resting, but is preparing herself rigorously to play the lead in St. Anne.

Not wanting to hurt her mother, she decides to give up the role. To keep Georgia from learning the truth, she asks John to take the two of them to dinner in order to avoid an 8 p.m. phone call from Sidney. Pam ducks back to the house to take the call, and Sidney tells her that he and Ober will be there in a week. She is overheard by Sara, who promises not to tell Georgia. However, Sara does prompt Georgia to consider quitting for a season.  Pamela, John and Georgia go out to many dinners and spend time together. Pamela convinces herself that she will quit acting completely and marry John.

Meanwhile, John has fallen in love with Georgia. At the Governor's Luau, he tries to avoid Pamela. He knows her intentions and wants to propose to Georgia before Pamela gets the chance to propose to him. He gets Pamela to sing "Quando me n'vo - When I go along," from "La bohème". After she finishes the song, while the crowd mills around her, John takes Georgia outside and proposes and she accepts. Sidney and Ober walk into the ballroom and she tells them that she will not perform St. Anne: She wants “a few years of a real honeymoon.” She suggests that Pam play it. Pamela is angry at first, at the news of the engagement, but she was not really in love with John. Cut to the theater to the last act of St. Anne, set in a church. Pamela, dressed in her nun's habit, sings Schubert's  "Ave Maria", while John and Georgia, Sara and Freddie, Sidney and a beaming Ober—watch, entranced.

####It's Always Fair Weather####
Three ex-G.I.s, Ted Riley, Doug Hallerton and Angie Valentine have served in World War II together and become best friends. At the beginning of the film, set in October 1945, they meet at their favorite New York bar, Tim's Bar and Grill before their release from the service. When Riley receives a Dear John letter from his girlfriend telling him she has married another man, his friends comfort him and join him hitting every other bar in town. They dance drunkenly through the street together ("The Binge") before returning to Tim's. Barman Tim is dubious about their vows of eternal friendship--having heard similar claims made by many other discharged servicemen--and wagers them they will forget about each other. The trio protest that they will be different and promise to reunite exactly ten years later at the same spot, tearing a dollar bill in three parts and writing the date of October 11, 1955 on each piece.

In the years after the war, the three men take entirely different paths, as shown through the "10-Year Montage". Riley had wanted to become an idealistic lawyer, but instead has become a fight promoter and gambler, associating with shady underworld characters. Hallerton, who had planned to become a painter, has gone into a high-stress job in advertising, and his marriage is crumbling. Valentine, who had planned to become a gourmet chef, is now running a hamburger stand in Schenectady, New York that he calls "The Cordon Bleu." He has a wife and several children.

The three men keep their promise to meet at the bar ten years later, and quickly realize that they now have nothing in common and dislike each other. Hallerton and Riley view Valentine as a "hick", while Riley and Valentine think Hallerton is a "snob", and Hallerton and Valentine think Riley is a "punk". Sitting together in an expensive restaurant as Hallerton's guest, munching celery, they silently express their regrets in "I Shouldn't Have Come", sung to the tune of "The Blue Danube".

At the restaurant, they encounter some people from Hallerton's advertising agency, including Jackie Leighton, an attractive and brainy advertising executive. Jackie gets the idea of reuniting the three men later that evening on a TV show hosted by Madeline Bradville. She and Riley gradually become involved, though at first Jackie seems motivated by wanting to get Riley on her show. She joins Riley at Stillman's gym, where Jackie demonstrates a deep knowledge of boxing while cavorting with beefy boxers to the tune of "Baby You Knock Me Out".

Riley gets into trouble with mobsters because he refuses to fix a fight. Evading the gangsters by dashing inside a roller skating ring, he skates out on the streets of Manhattan, where he realizes that Jackie's affection for him has built up his self-esteem, and he dances exuberantly on roller skates ("I Like Myself"). Hallerton, meanwhile, has misgivings about the corporate life ("Situation-Wise").

The three men are reluctantly coaxed into the TV reunion, while the gangsters track Riley inside the studio. The three ex-service buddies fight and defeat the gangsters--tricking the head mobster into confessing on live television. The brawl brings the trio  back together and they escape from the studio when the police arrive. At the end, they are friends again, but go their separate ways without making plans for another reunion ("The Time for Parting").

####The Jazz Singer####
Cantor Rabinowitz wants his son, 13-year old Jacob "Jakie" Rabinowitz, to carry on the generations-old family tradition and become a cantor at the synagogue in the Jewish ghetto of Manhattan's Lower East Side. Jakie has instead taken a liking to singing jazz at the local beer garden. Moisha Yudelson spots the boy and tells Jakie's father, who drags him home. Jakie clings to his mother, Sara, as his father declares, "I'll teach him better than to debase the voice God gave him!" Jakie threatens: "If you whip me again, I'll run away—and "never come back! After the whipping, Jakie kisses his mother goodbye and, true to his word, runs away. At the Yom Kippur service, Rabinowitz mournfully tells a fellow celebrant, "My son was to stand at my side and sing tonight—but now I have no son." As the sacred Kol Nidre is sung, Jakie sneaks back home to retrieve a picture of his loving mother.

About ten years later, Jakie has anglicized his name to Jack Robin. Jack is called up from his table at a cabaret to perform on stage ("Dirty Hands, Dirty Face").

Jack wows the crowd with his energized rendition of "Toot, Toot, Tootsie." Afterward, he is introduced to the beautiful Mary Dale, a musical theater dancer. "There are lots of jazz singers, but "you" have a tear in your voice," she says, offering to help with his budding career. With her help, Jack eventually gets his big break: a leading part in the new musical "April Follies".

Back at the family home Jack left long ago, the elder Rabinowitz instructs a young student in the traditional cantorial art. Jack appears and tries to explain his point of view, and his love of modern music, but the appalled cantor banishes him: "I never want to see you again—you "jazz singer! As he leaves, Jack makes a prediction: "I came home with a heart full of love, but you don't want to understand. Some day you'll understand, the same as Mama does."



Two weeks after Jack's expulsion from the family home and 24 hours before the opening night of "April Follies" on Broadway, Jack's father falls gravely ill. Jack is asked to choose between the show and duty to his family and faith: in order to sing the Kol Nidre for Yom Kippur in his father's place, he will have to miss the big premiere.

That evening, the eve of Yom Kippur, Yudelson tells the Jewish elders, "For the first time, we have no Cantor on the Day of Atonement." Lying in his bed, weak and gaunt, Cantor Rabinowitz tells Sara that he cannot perform on the most sacred of holy days: "My son came to me in my dreams—he sang Kol Nidre so beautifully. If he would only sing like that tonight—surely he would be forgiven."

As Jack prepares for a dress rehearsal by applying blackface makeup, he and Mary discuss his career aspirations and the family pressures they agree he must resist. Sara and Yudelson come to Jack's dressing room to plead for him to come to his father and sing in his stead. Jack is torn. He delivers his blackface performance ("Mother of Mine, I Still Have You"), and Sara sees her son on stage for the first time. She has a tearful revelation: "Here he belongs. If God wanted him in His house, He would have kept him there. He's not "my" boy anymore—he belongs to the whole world now."



Afterward, Jack returns to the Rabinowitz home. He kneels at his father's bedside and the two converse fondly: "My son—I love you." Sara suggests that it may help heal his father if Jack takes his place at the Yom Kippur service. Mary arrives with the producer, who warns Jack that he'll never work on Broadway again if he fails to appear on opening night. Jack can not decide. Mary challenges him: "Were you lying when you said your career came before "everything? Jack is unsure if he even can replace his father: "I haven't sung Kol Nidre since I was a little boy." His mother tells him, "Do what is in your heart, Jakie—if you sing and God is not in your voice—your father will know." The producer cajoles Jack: "You're a "jazz singer" at heart!"

At the theater, the opening night audience is told that there will be no performance. Jack sings the Kol Nidre in his father's place. His father listens from his deathbed to the nearby ceremony and speaks his last, forgiving words: "Mama, we have our son again." The spirit of Jack's father is shown at his side in the synagogue. Mary has come to listen. She sees how Jack has reconciled the division in his soul: "a jazz singer—singing to his God."

"The season passes—and time heals—the show goes on." Jack, as "The Jazz Singer," is now appearing at the Winter Garden theater, apparently as the featured performer opening for a show called "Back Room". In the front row of the packed theater, his mother sits alongside Yudelson. Jack, in blackface, performs the song "My Mammy" for her and the world.

####The Jazz Singer####
Yussel Rabinovitch is a young, fifth-generation Jewish cantor performing at the synagogue of his imperious father. Yussel is married to his childhood friend Rivka, and settled down to a life of religious devotion to the teaching of his faith.

But on the side, he writes songs for a black singing group, and when a member of the quartet is arrested, Yussel covers for him at one of their gigs by wearing blackface. The nightclub engagement is a success, but one of the patrons notices that Yussel's hands are white and speaks out. A fight ensues, and the band is arrested. Yussel's father comes to the jail to bail them out and discovers there is not a Yussel Rabinovitch there, but a Jess Robin. His father questions him about the name, and Yussel confesses that it is a stage name he uses when performing. His father tells him that his singing voice was to be used for God's purposes, not his own.

Bubba, a member of the Four Brothers singing group, is Yussel's best friend, although he knows him only as Jess. Bubba informs him that the band has a gig in Los Angeles, performing back-up vocals for a successful singer (Keith Lennox). Shortly after Bubba leaves, Yussel begins composing a song that will eventually become "Love on the Rocks". His wife Rivka notices him writing the song in his free time and senses that Yussel yearns for a bigger stage for his voice, but her values keep her grounded to the life they have built.

Bubba calls from Los Angeles to inform Jess that Lennox heard and loved "Love on the Rocks" and wants to record it, but they need Jess to come for two weeks to oversee the recording session. Jess views this as the opportunity he has been waiting for, but Rivka and his father are opposed to his going. Later at his father's 25th anniversary party as shul cantor, his father relents and tearfully releases him.

When Jess arrives in Los Angeles, he is picked up by music agent Molly Bell. She takes him to the studio where Lennox is recording, and Jess is shocked to find that his ballad is now being recorded as a hard rock song. During a break in recording, Jess asks the producer and Lennox if he can perform the song as a ballad as he intended, so Lennox can get an idea of the song's framing. They allow him to do so, and while recording the song, Molly decides that Jess's performance is the way the song should be done. However, Lennox is not convinced and fires not only Jess but Bubba and his group.

Later, Molly gets a tip from a friend as to where Eddie Gibbs, a booking agent, is having lunch. She gets into his car, uninvited, and has him listen to Jess's recording of "Love on the Rocks". When Gibbs asks her who it is, Molly tells him that it is the new opening act for Zane Grey's television special. Gibbs is impressed, but says he can't book anyone from just a tape recording and unceremoniously tosses her from his car. However, Molly manages to arrange for Gibbs to visit a club where Jess is playing, thanks to Bubba, who is working there as a waiter. His live performance convinces Gibbs to book Jess as an opening act for the television special.

Meanwhile, back in New York, Cantor Rabinovitch reminds Rivka that her place is by her husband's side. He pressures her to go to California and attempt to bring him home. Rivka arrives on Jess's opening night, and tells Molly that Jess needs to return home. The audience gives Jess a standing ovation, and he heads backstage and is reunited with Rivka. At the after-party, Jess is met by an enthusiastic crowd and given a recording contract. Jess asks Rivka to stay, but she says she wants something different. Realizing she has lost him, she returns home.

Days later, Jess meets Molly by the pier and confesses his love for her, telling her he and Rivka have separated. As time passes, the two grow close to each other, and Jess's career success continues. His father visits, attempting to persuade him to come home, but Jess refuses, insisting he is making a name for himself with his music career. Jess reveals that he and Rivka are divorcing, which devastates his father. To make matters worse, Molly suddenly arrives. Jess attempts to explain the matter to his father, but to no avail, and he angrily disowns his son and leaves weeping.

Heartbroken, Jess struggles at his recording sessions, taking out his anger on his bandmates, until he storms out of a recording session and drives away aimlessly. When his car runs out of gas on the highway, he hitchhikes and lives the life of a drifter for a few months. However, he eventually returns home to Molly when Bubba finds him and tells him she has given birth to his son. Molly once again meets Eddie Gibbs in his car and persuades him to allow Jess to perform on Zane Grey's television special.

At rehearsal, the day before Yom Kippur, Jess learns that his father is in hospital with high blood pressure and won't be able to sing Kol Nidre at the synagogue. Jess is initially reluctant to go, vowing that he is dead to his father, but Molly insists that he go or else she will feel guilty about being the cause of the estrangement. Jess ultimately agrees and returns to sing at the synagogue. He attempts to make amends with his father, who refuses to speak to Jess until learning he now has a grandson, at which point his father finally breaks down and the two finally reconcile.

The final scene depicts Jess performing "America", with his enthusiastic father and Molly in attendance.

####John Loves Mary####
John Lawrence (Ronald Reagan) is a returning GI. Mary McKinley (Patricia Neal, in her film debut) is the woman he left behind. But their reunion will have to wait: John has returned with English war bride Lilly Herbish (Virginia Field) in tow. It seems that John married Lilly as a favor to get her into the U.S., intending to go to Reno, Nevada and divorce her so that she can wed her true love, John's old pal Fred Taylor (Jack Carson). The plan is complicated by the unexpected arrival of Mary's parents, Senator James McKinley (Edward Arnold) and his wife Phyllis (Katharine Alexander). When John asks for the blessing of Mary's father to wed her, the senator insists that the wedding be held immediately. Later, John learns that Fred is already married and that his wife is expecting a baby.

John and Fred then come up with a scheme to put off John's wedding until he can get a divorce from Lilly. Fred pays off their former lieutenant, Victor O'Leary (Wayne Morris), to don his old uniform and pretend to order John to go to Reno on some Army business. The next day, Mary is so distraught at the thought of delaying the wedding that she insists her father use his political connections to get John out of his assignment. When John refuses to accept any special treatment, Mary leaves along with her parents. While they are gone, Lilly arrives and discovers that Fred already is married. Mary tries again to get John out of his assignment by asking General Biddle (Paul Harvey) to intervene, but John again refuses any such help. Mary becomes convinced that John does not love her and breaks off the engagement, forcing John to come clean and admit to the entire scheme. Lilly then reveals that she was married to Victor, but had received a letter purporting to be from his mother claiming that he had died from double pneumonia. An unwilling, and inebriated Victor is reunited with Lilly, and since Lilly's marriage to John is invalid he is free to wed Mary.

####Junior High School####
The story begins with Sherry (Paula Abdul) declaring plans to hold a party that night. Upon hearing about this party, Jerry's friend, Paul (Kirk Burnett) encourages him to ask his crush, Lori Scott (Karen Capelle) to accompany him to the event. On his way to doing this, Jerry encounters several obstacles, including repeated run-ins with Keith (Mikal Robert Taylor), a school bully, and Vicki (Toni Mazarin), an ill-intentioned girl who hopes Jerry will ask her to the party so she can spite a previous boyfriend.

####The King and I####
A widowed schoolteacher, Anna, arrives in Bangkok with her young son, Louis, after being summoned to tutor the many children of King Mongkut. Both are introduced to the intimidating Kralahome, Siam's prime minister, who escorts them to the Royal Palace, where they will live, although Anna had been promised her own house. The King ignores her objections and introduces her to his head wife, Lady Thiang. Anna also meets a recent concubine, a young Burmese, Tuptim, and the fifteen children she will tutor, including his son and heir, Prince Chulalongkorn. In conversation with the other wives, Anna learns Tuptim is in love with Lun Tha, who brought her to Siam.

Anna still wants her own house and teaches the children about the virtues of home life, to the King's irritation, who disapproves of the influence of other cultures. She comes across Lun Tha and learns that he has been meeting Tuptim in secret. He asks her to arrange a rendezvous. The lovers meet under cover of darkness, and Lun Tha promises he will one day return to Siam and that they will escape together.

King Mongkut becomes troubled over rumors that the British regard him as a barbaric leader and are sending a delegation, including Anna's old admirer, Sir Edward, possibly to turn Siam into a protectorate. Anna persuades the King to receive them in European style by hosting a banquet with European food and music. In return, the King promises to give Anna her own house.

Sir Edward reminisces with Anna in an attempt to bring her back to British society. The King presents Tuptim's version of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as a traditional Siamese ballet. However, the King and the Kralahome are not impressed, as the play involves slavery and shows the slaveholding King drowning in the river. During the show, Tuptim left the room to run away with Lun Tha.

After the guests have departed, the king reveals that Tuptim is missing. Anna explains that Tuptim is unhappy because she is just another woman in his eyes. The King retorts that men are entitled to a plenitude of wives, although women must remain faithful. Anna explains the reality of one man loving only one woman and recalls her first dance before she teaches the King how to dance the polka, but the touching moment is shattered when the Kralahome bursts into the room with the news Tuptim has been captured. For her dishonor, the King prepares to whip her despite Anna's pleas. She declares he is indeed a barbarian. The King then crumples, puts his hand over his heart, and runs out of the room. The Kralahome blames Anna for ruining him as Tuptim is led away in tears after learning Lun Tha was found dead and dumped into the river. That causes Anna to sever all ties as a governess and declare she will leave on the next boat from Siam.

On the night of her departure, Anna learns that the King is dying. Lady Thiang gives Anna his unfinished letter stating his deep gratitude and respect for her, despite their differences. Moments before the ship departs, he gives Anna his ring, as she has always spoken the truth to him, and persuades her and Louis to stay in Bangkok. He passes his title to Prince Chulalongkorn, who then issues a proclamation that states that all subjects will no longer bow down to him but will still respect him. The King dies, satisfied that his kingdom will be all right, and Anna lovingly presses her cheek to his hand.

####King Kelly of the U.S.A.####
James W. Kelly (Guy Robertson) and his pal Happy Moran (Edgar Kennedy) are taking their all-girl-dancing troupe "Kelly's Affairs" across the ocean on the SS Île de France to tour Europe. Despite warning his troupe not to fall in love, Kelly and the mysterious Catherine Bell (Irene Ware), fall for each other, literally. Maxine sets her gold-digging sights on wealthy J. Ashton Brockton (Franklin Pangborn). Brockton sends his secretary to buy Maxine out of Kelly's Affairs, but Kelly refuses to break up the act.

When their backers pull out, Happy and Kelly are unable to manage to scrounge enough dough to get the girls back home. Brockton has also been informed of bad news; his high paid contract as an efficiency expert to the Kingdom of Belgardia is a bad move as the nation is broke. The scheming Brockton sees his chance to kill two birds with one stone; he swaps management of the entire troupe of Kelly's Affairs to get his girlfriend and for exchange gives Kelly his position in Belgardia where Kelly and Happy believe they will "live like kings".

Belgardia in a tiny Kingdom of 50,012 where the GDP is measured in mops. When King Maxmilian leaves his royal palace for a bicycle ride, he has his bicycle destroyed in a country ditch. He hitches a ride with Kelly and Happy who believe him a tramp, and make him act as their servant to impress the King. With the incognito King carrying their bags, the gates of the Royal Palace are opened to them.

The pair discover that Belgardia is broke, especially hard hit by the fact that no one is buying mops as they now use vacuum cleaners instead. Spying a pair of tourists offering to pay money to get inside the castle, Kelly has a brainstorm to open the nation to tourism and charge fees for touring, then opens the palace as an amusement park with mops as prizes. As a crooner, Kelly tries to sell mops by appealing to women's vanity, using a radio show to pull the kingdom out of bankruptcy, and win Catherine Bell, who is actually Princess Tania, from their shipboard romance.

Time is running out, as Prince Alexis, (William Orlamond), invades, from the neighbouring country of Moronia, to seize the castle and marry the Princess. Their only defence, as the army has quit for not being paid, are the women tourist customers and their “Personality Mops”.

####Kismet####
In old Baghdad, an impoverished poet (Howard Keel) is abducted and brought to the desert tent of Jawan (Jay C. Flippen), an elderly thief, having been mistaken for a man who cursed Jawan fifteen years ago. As a result of the curse, Jawan's beloved son was kidnapped, and Jawan longs to find him again before he dies. The Poet asks for one hundred gold pieces to reverse the curse; Jawan agrees and returns to Baghdad to look for his son.

In Baghdad, the Poet's daughter, Marsinah (Ann Blyth) meets and falls in love with the young Caliph (Vic Damone), who has been traveling incognito. They arrange to meet again that night.

The Poet is arrested when he begins spending his hundred gold pieces because his purse carries the insignia of a wealthy family that was robbed. At the Wazir's (Sebastian Cabot) court, he defends himself against the charge of robbery but also curses the Wazir. Jawan, brought before the Wazir on another charge, angrily confirms the Poet's story and then notices a familiar amulet around the Wazir's neck. In this way, Jawan discovers his long-lost son.

The Caliph announces that he plans to take a bride that night, discomforting the Wazir, who has a badly needed loan riding on persuading the Caliph to marry a princess of Ababu. The Wazir, fearing that the Poet's curse had something to do with it, offers to make the Poet an (Emir) if he reverses the curse. The Poet happily accepts, and when the Wazir leaves him alone with his favorite wife Lalume (Dolores Gray), the two realize they have similar temperaments.

The Poet orchestrates an elaborate "curse-reversal" scheme that enables him to sneak out of the palace; he finds Marsinah and convinces her that he will be killed unless they flee Baghdad. Despite Marsinah's protests—she wants to wait for her rendezvous and see the Caliph's wedding procession—they flee. Word spreads that the Caliph's bride was not there when the Caliph came to claim her. Since the "curse reversal" seems to have worked, the Poet leaves Marsinah and returns to the palace.

The Poet tells Lalume that he is worried about Marsinah, and Lalume suggests that she come to live in the palace. Marsinah arrives and confesses that she has fallen in love but does not know her beloved's name. Lalume hides Marsinah in the harem for her own protection, but there the Caliph sees her and believes her to be a wife of the Wazir. When the Wazir privately congratulates the Poet on bringing the Caliph's true love into the Wazir's own harem, the Poet realizes that the Caliph is Marsinah's beloved.

At a ceremony planned to choose a new bride, the Poet tricks the Wazir and (almost) drowns him in front of the Caliph and the crowd. The Poet is sentenced to death, but Lalume saves the day as Marsinah is revealed to be the Poet's daughter and the victim of the Wazir's scheming. The Caliph sentences the Wazir to death and the Poet to exile. The Poet agrees, but asks to take the soon-to-be-widowed Lalume with him. Thus the Poet weds Lalume and the Caliph weds Marsinah—all in the course of a single day.

####Kiss Me Kate####
Fred Graham and Lilli Vanessi, a divorced couple, meet at Fred's apartment to hear Cole Porter perform the score for "Kiss Me Kate", his musical version of "The Taming of the Shrew", to be directed by Fred. Lois Lane arrives to audition for the Bianca role ("Too Darn Hot"). Lilli decides against performing the lead of “Katherine”, opposite Fred in the male lead of Petruchio, as she is leaving to marry a rich Texas rancher. She changes her mind when Cole and Fred manipulate her by offering Lois the lead role.

Lois' boyfriend, Bill Calhoun, is playing Lucentio in the play. He leads a gambling lifestyle, which results in owing a local gangster $2,000, but he has signed the IOU in Fred's name. Lois laments his bad-boy lifestyle ("Why Can't You Behave?").

After a fiery confrontation during rehearsals, Fred and Lilli get together in her dressing room and reminisce about happier times ("Wunderbar"). Fred later sends flowers and a card to Lois, but his butler mistakenly gives them to Lilli. Lilli is overcome by this romantic gesture and fails to read the card ("So In Love (Reprise)").

The play opens, with Fred, Lilli, Lois and Bill performing an opening number ("We Open In Venice"). In the play, Bianca, the younger daughter of Baptista, wishes to marry, but her father will not allow it until his elder daughter, Katherine, is married.  Bianca has three suitors – Gremio, Hortensio and Lucentio – and each of them try to win her over. She is prepared to marry anyone ("...any Tom, Dick or Harry...").

Petruchio arrives, seeking a wife ("I've Come To Wive It Wealthily In Padua"), and when he hears of Katherine, he resolves to woo her.  Katherine hates the idea of getting married ("I Hate Men"). When Petruchio serenades Katherine ("Were Thine That Special Face"), Lilli finally reads the card from the flowers. She sees that it is addressed to Lois, and attacks Fred/Petruchio on stage, ad-libbing verbal abuse.  As the curtain comes down, Fred spanks Lilli/Kate. Backstage, Lilli phones her fiancé, Tex, to come and immediately pick her up.

Lippy and Slug, a pair of thugs, arrive to collect from Fred. Fred asks them to keep Lilli from leaving the show so it will be successful enough for Fred to pay the debt.  Lois has learned that Fred has taken responsibility for the IOU and she comes to thank him, but each time she begins to thank him for not being angry about Bill forging his name, Fred kisses her to prevent Lippy and Slug from learning about his deception. Lilli and Bill walk in on the scene and become furious.

In order to keep Lilli from leaving, Slug and Lippy appear on stage, disguised as Petruchio's servants. They have no acting ability, but still manage to amuse the audience. Petruchio sets about "taming the shrew", but later reminisces about his days of philandering ("Where Is The Life That Late I Led?").

During the play's intermission, when Tex arrives to rescue Lilli from the theatre, he is recognized by Lois, an old flame. When Bill is angered by Lois' behavior, she admits that though she loves Bill, she cannot resist the advances of other men ("Always True To You In My Fashion").

The gambling debt is cancelled by the untimely death of Slug and Lippy's boss, so they stop interfering with Lilli's mid-performance departure from the theatre. Fred tells her that she truly belongs in theatre, and also reveals his true feelings for her. She departs, leaving a dejected Fred to be cheered up by Slug and Lippy ("Brush Up Your Shakespeare").

Bianca marries Lucentio. The rejected suitors, Gremio and Hortensio, meet two new girls ("From This Moment On"). At the finale, the show is temporarily halted when Lilli's understudy goes missing. Suddenly, Lilli reappears on stage, delivering Kate's speech about how women should surrender to their husbands ("I'm Ashamed That Women Are So Simple"). Fred is bowled over, and the play reaches its triumphant finale ("Kiss Me Kate"), with Fred and Lilli back together as a real couple.

####Kissin' Cousins####
The U.S. Federal Government has run into a dead end trying to negotiate the lease of mountaintop land owned by Pappy Tatum, in the Great Smoky Mountains of Tennessee, for use as an ICBM missile base. U.S. Army General Alvin Donford gives Captain Robert Salbo seven days to secure the lease, or face permanent assignment to Greenland. After a quick computer search of military records, Salbo requests that U.S. Air Force pilot Second Lt. Josh Morgan, born elsewhere in the Great Smoky Mountains, be assigned as his number two. When they arrive in Tennessee with a small platoon, dark-haired Josh is surprised to meet his look-alike third cousin Jodie Tatum, a blond hillbilly.

Josh also meets his two beautiful country cousins, Azalea and Selena, who compete to win his affections. Josh eventually chooses Azalea and pairs off Selena with his friend, Master Sgt. William Bailey. Jodie, on the other hand, falls for Private Midge Riley, a beautiful but fiery soldier. There are also a group of 13 mountain maidens called the Kittyhawks who create havoc when they set their sights on the marriage-eligible soldiers.

Josh persuades Pappy Tatum to lease the mountaintop to the government for a monthly payment of $1,000 ($inflation|US|1000|1964|r=-2|fmt=c today) as long as an access road is built from the far side and the military provide security to prevent government employees from accessing Tatum's side &ndash; which will prevent "revenoors" from interfering with Pappy's moonshining.

####Lady and the Tramp####
In 1909, in a small Midwestern town, "Jim Dear" gives his wife "Darling" efn|We never learn their real names in the film. They only address each other by these terms of endearment, so others - the dogs in particular - do the same. a cocker spaniel puppy as a Christmas present. The puppy, named Lady, grows up pampered by her doting owners, and befriends her neighbors' dogs Jock (a Scottie) and Trusty (an elderly Bloodhound). Meanwhile, across town, a stray terrier-mix named Tramp feeds on scraps and handouts, and frees his friends Peg the Pekingese and Bull the Bulldog from the local dogcatcher.

Fleeing the angry dogcatcher, Tramp finds himself in Lady's neighborhood. He overhears a distraught Lady conversing with Jock and Trusty about her owners' suddenly-distant behavior towards her. When Jock and Trusty deduce this is because Darling is pregnant, Tramp inserts himself into the conversation as the "voice of experience", and warns Lady that "when a baby moves in, a dog moves out". Annoyed, Jock drives him from the yard. Tramp's words cause Lady to fret throughout Darling's pregnancy, but when the baby boy arrives, she is allowed to meet and bond with him, dispelling her fears.

Later, Jim Dear and Darling take a short trip, leaving the house, Lady, and the baby in the care of Jim Dear's aunt Sarah, who brings along her two Siamese cats Si and Am. Sarah dislikes dogs, and prohibits Lady from seeing the baby; later, the cats destroy the house, and pin the deed on Lady by pretending she injured them. Sarah takes Lady to the pet shop, and has a muzzle put on her; Lady panics and flees into the street, where she is pursued by three savage dogs, until Tramp intervenes to protect her.

Tramp takes Lady to the zoo to have the muzzle removed by a beaver; he then shows Lady his owner-free lifestyle, and they explore the town. The kindly proprietor of Tony's Restaurant gives them a spaghetti dinner to share, before they end the evening with a walk in the park.
The next day, Tramp tries to convince Lady to live "footloose and collar free" with him; despite liking Tramp, she decides her duty is to watch over the baby. As Tramp escorts Lady home, he stops to chase some chickens; the dogcatcher pursues them both, but only Lady is caught. At the pound, she meets Peg, Bull, and some other strays, who all know Tramp. They reveal he has had many girlfriends in the past, and claim that females are his weakness.

Sarah comes to claim Lady, and chains her in the backyard as punishment for running away. Jock and Trusty propose that Lady should marry and come live with one of them, to escape the abuse, but she gently refuses them. When Tramp arrives to apologize to Lady, she berates him for his many girlfriends and sends him away, too. Afterwards, Lady notices a large rat sneaking into the house through the baby's bedroom window. Her attempts to alert Sarah fail, but Tramp hears her barking, returns, and enters the house himself to save the baby. Lady breaks her chain and follows soon after. Tramp is wounded in the battle with the rat, but manages to kill it behind a curtain. During the struggle, the baby's crib overturns, and he begins to cry; Sarah comes to investigate, and assumes the dogs attacked the baby.

Jim Dear and Darling return home to find that Sarah has locked Lady in the cellar and handed Tramp over to the dogcatcher to be euthanized. Disbelieving Sarah's story, Jim Dear frees Lady, who immediately shows them the dead rat. Overhearing the truth, Jock and Trusty pursue the dogcatcher's cart and try to stop it; the horses spook, causing the cart to crash. Jim Dear and Darling arrive with Lady to rescue Tramp, but Trusty is badly injured in the wreck.

Later, at Christmastime, Tramp has become an official part of the family, and he and Lady have four little puppies of their own. Jock and a mostly-healed Trusty visit the family; the puppies now provide Trusty a new audience for his old stories, but he has forgotten them, much
to his and everyone else's amusement.

####Let It Be Me####
After becoming engaged to Emily, Gabe finds himself watching a graceful pair of dancers in a dance studio window. Hoping to learn to dance for his upcoming wedding, Gabe enters the studio to take lessons. While interested in his dance teacher, he finds that he is still looking forward to his wedding, but things change when he has Emily come in for her lessons.

####Let's Dance####
During World War II, Kitty McNeil (Betty Hutton) and her dance partner Donald Elwood (Fred Astaire) are performing for troops in London. Don announces his engagement to Kitty on stage, but Kitty later tells him she's recently married pilot Richard Everett, a member of a wealthy Boston family. Everett is killed soon after the marriage after being shot down.

Five years later, Kitty is locked in a struggle with her late husband's grandmother Serena (Lucille Watson) for the custody of Kitty and Richard's son, Richard "Richie" Everett VII (Gregory Moffett). Serena dislikes Kitty, and thinks she knows best about Richie's education. Kitty decides to flee to New York City with Richie.

Desperate for money, Don has taken a job at Larry Channock's (Barton MacLane) nightclub. Don runs into an out-of-work Kitty at a café, and manages to get her a job as a cigarette girl. However, Serena has sent her two lawyers Pohlwhistle (Roland Young) and Wagstaffe (Melville Cooper) to the club, where they subpoena Kitty in an attempt for Serena to gain custody of Richie. Don persuades Larry to give Kitty a steady job as his dance partner at the club, but various potentially embarrassing details about Richie not going to school and spending most of his time at the club emerge at court. However, all are easily answered by the kind nightclub staff. The judge gives Kitty sixty days to give Richie a stable home life, to which end Don agrees to marry Kitty. However, Don and Kitty get into an argument at the marriage license bureau, thus ending their short-lived engagement.

Kitty becomes engaged to the rich Timothy Bryant (Shepperd Strudwick), a friend of Don's. A jealous Don manages to end the engagement, and all looks well until Serena wins back custody of Richie. Kitty kidnaps Richie and hides him at the club. However, Don, who has made a substantial amount of money from selling a racehorse, manages to smooth things out between Kitty and Serena. A delighted Kitty agrees to marry Don.

####Let's Do It Again####
Actress Connie Stuart tells her husband, composer Gary Stuart, that she spent an evening in a country inn with rival composer Courtney Craig. He accuses her of infidelity. She, in turn, accuses him of adultery with dancer Lilly Adair. The couple divorce.

Several weeks pass as the couple waits out the 60-day period for the divorce decree to be final. One day, Gary goes to Connie's apartment to speak to her about retrieving his piano, as a hole must be cut in the wall to get it out. He discovers she has agreed to appear in Courtney's new play. Her performance draws the attention of uranium mining millionaire Frank McGraw, and they begin dating. Gary, jealous of Courtney but unwilling to admit he still loves Connie, bribes his piano movers to take their time so that he can repeatedly visit Connie.

Gary's brother, Chet, tells Gary that Connie is seeing the miner Frank, not the playwright Courtney. Gary spends the night at Connie's, composing a song for her in an attempt to win her back. When Frank shows up at dawn and sees Gary at Connie's, he assumes Connie is two-timing him.

Gary's new musical is a hit, but he is morose without Connie as the star. Chet tells him that Connie's claim about spending the night with Courtney in a country inn was a fabrication designed to make Gary jealous. Deciding to marry Connie to get her away from Gary, Frank goes to Connie's apartment to propose. Courtney attempts to prevent the engagement; he arrives before Frank, but Connie shoos him into the bedroom. Gary shows up moments later, furious to find Courtney there. Frank arrives to propose marriage, while Gary and Courtney fight in the bedroom. Frank withdraws his proposal of marriage and dumps Connie when he finds the two men exchanging blows.

After finding Courtney at Connie's, Gary remains convinced Connie committed adultery. He now begins dating socialite Deborah Randolph.

Connie finally gets Gary to come to her apartment to get the piano out. While there, Gary telephones Deborah. Connie attempts to interfere in their relationship by singing a romantic song. Deborah overhears the woman's voice, and Gary claims that it is his sister doing the singing. "Gary's sister" then dupes Deborah into hosting a party for Gary and inviting her. Connie shows up at the party in a fashionable gown and sings for the guests. Deborah, realizing that "Gary's sister" is really Connie, tells Gary to go back to his wife. Gary realizes he was a fool to show interest in Lilly Adair. With only minutes before the divorce decree goes into effect, Connie admits she has always been faithful and Gary pledges renewed fidelity to her. They embrace and resume their marriage.

####Let's Fall in Love####
A Hollywood director (Edmund Lowe) finds himself in trouble when his latest Swedish discovery departs the shooting of his film. He finds the perfect candidate in a girl working at a fair (Ann Sothern). The only problem is, she is not in fact Swedish; a minor detail but one that can be sorted by deft handiwork and a bit of pretence.

####Let's Make Love####
The plot revolves around billionaire Jean-Marc Clément who learns that he is to be satirized in an off-Broadway revue. After going to the theatre, he sees Amanda Dell rehearsing the Cole Porter song "My Heart Belongs to Daddy", and, by accident, the director thinks him an actor suitable to play himself in the revue. Clément takes the part in order to see more of Amanda and plays along with the mistaken identity, going by the name Alexander Dumas. While rehearsing, Clément finds himself growing jealous of Amanda's attentions to actor Tony Danton, unaware that she only wants to help Tony achieve stardom. In order to impress Amanda, Clément hires Milton Berle, Gene Kelly, and Bing Crosby (all playing themselves) to teach him how to deliver jokes, dance, and sing, respectively. Clément even goes as far as to indirectly fully fund the revue after one of his employees, who had raised him all his life, tries to put an end to the revue by demanding a full year's rent for the theater. Throughout this, Clément and Amanda fall in love with one another.

Eventually, Clément decides to confess the truth to Amanda, who reacts by assuming that he has gotten overwhelmed by method acting and needs to see a therapist. He eventually manages to convince her of his true identity after tricking her and the revue director into coming to his offices. Amanda is initially indignant over the deception but swiftly forgives him after the two make up in the building's elevator.

####Listen, Darling####
Pinky Wingate (Judy Garland) is worried about her widowed mother, Dottie (Mary Astor), who is pursuing a loveless relationship with the town's banker, knowing he can help her fund her children's lives. To help her realize this, Pinky and her friend Buzz (Freddie Bartholomew) "kidnap" Dottie and her younger brother Billie (Scotty Beckett), taking them on a road trip to get away from the banker. While they do this, they meet two men, Richard Thurlow (Walter Pidgeon) and J.J Slattery (Alan Hale), who they think would be nice husbands for her mother. Her mother falls in love with Richard Thurlow (Walter Pidgeon) and they go home.

####Little Nellie Kelly####
In Ireland, Jerry Kelly (George Murphy) marries his sweetheart Nellie Noonan (Judy Garland) over the objections of her ne'er-do-well father Michael Noonan (Charles Winninger), who swears never to speak to Jerry again, even though he reluctantly accompanies the newlyweds to the U.S., where Jerry becomes a policeman, and all three become citizens. Michael continues to hold his grudge against Jerry, even when Nellie dies shortly after giving birth to her daughter, also named Nellie.

Years later, Jerry is now a captain on the police force, and little Nellie (also played by Judy Garland) has grown up as the spitting image of her mother. Michael dotes on his granddaughter but is embarrassed when she sings in public at the police department parade (It's a Great Day for the Irish). He uses a supposed weak heart, for which he takes a tot of whiskey from a medicine bottle, to get his way with little Nellie and to avoid work. When Nellie becomes enamored of Dennis Fogarty (Douglas McPhail), the son of Michael's old friend Timothy Fogarty (Arthur Shields), the conflict in the home intensifies. Jerry is happy for her, but Michael objects to the romance, and when Nellie, encouraged by her father, finally stands up to him,  he leaves home.

Eventually, the three generations are reconciled, and Nellie and Dennis remain a couple.

####Live a Little, Love a Little####
Greg Nolan is a newspaper photographer who lives a carefree life until he encounters an eccentric, lovelorn woman named Bernice on the beach. Bernice assumes different names and personalities whenever the mood hits her. She introduces herself to Greg as "Alice" but she is known to the grocery delivery boy as "Susie" and to the milkman as "Betty."

After having her Great Dane dog Albert chase Greg into the water when he insults her after a kiss, Bernice invites him to stay at her beachfront home. Bernice later causes Greg to get fired from his job and get evicted from his apartment after drugging him, which leaves him in a deep sleep for days.

However, Bernice manages to find Greg another home. Greg wants to repay her, so he procures two full-time photographer jobs: one for a "Playboy"-like magazine owned by Mike Lansdown, and the other for a very conservative advertising firm co-owned by Mr. Penlow. The two jobs are in the same building, forcing Greg to run from one to the other without being detected. Greg also deals with Bernice and her eccentric ways, and finally realizes he has fallen in love with her.

####The Lizzie McGuire Movie####
Lizzie McGuire prepares for her junior-high graduation with one of her two closest friends, David "Gordo" Gordon. Their other best friend, Miranda Sanchez, has chosen to skip the graduation ceremony in favor of a trip to Mexico City to visit her relatives. During the ceremony, Lizzie trips onstage and accidentally brings the curtain down on her fellow graduates; this causes her to be teased by her younger brother Matt and her former best friend Kate Sanders. After graduation, Lizzie and her classmates embark on a trip to Rome, chaperoned by their future strict high school principal, Angela Ungermeyer. The rest of the class chose a trip to a water park instead. To their dismay, Lizzie and Kate are assigned to the same hotel room.

Their class visits the Trevi Fountain, where Lizzie is approached by an Italian pop star named Paolo Valisari, who mistakes her for his singing partner, Isabella Parigi. Paolo asks Lizzie to meet him at the fountain the next day, and she feigns illness to sneak away. He explains that he and Isabella are booked for the International Music Video Awards, but she left Italy after their partnership breakup. Paolo tells Lizzie that Isabella lip syncs, and begs her to pose as Isabella for the ceremony so that they won't be fined for canceling. Lizzie reluctantly agrees, but soon begins to enjoy the experience and falls for Paolo.

Lizzie continues to fake being ill to prepare for the ceremony, but Kate quickly figures out her secret. To Lizzie's surprise, Kate agrees to help her and the two become friendly again. Meanwhile, Ms. Ungermeyer interrogates the students to learn who has been sneaking out. Gordo takes the blame and is sent back home as punishment. Lizzie is shocked when she learns from Kate that Gordo sacrificed himself to protect her. Back home, Matt browses the Internet and finds Italian gossip sites with pictures of Lizzie as Isabella. When he tells his parents, the family flies to Rome.

At the airport, Gordo meets the real Isabella, who is upset that someone has been impersonating her. She and Gordo realize that Paolo is planning to have a nervous Lizzie unknowingly sing live at the ceremony, as Isabella actually does, creating the impression that Isabella is a fake, which would damage Isabella's career and embarrass Lizzie. Gordo and Isabella rush to the awards to stop him. When the McGuires arrive in Rome, Ms. Ungermeyer learns that Lizzie is missing. Gordo's roommate Ethan Craft reveals that she is performing at the International Music Video Awards, and Lizzie's family and the class also rush to the ceremony. Backstage, Gordo and Isabella find Lizzie preparing for the ceremony and warn her about Paolo's scheme. Lizzie refuses to believe them at first, but Isabella convinces her otherwise. Ms. Ungermeyer gets the class and Lizzie's family into the ceremony by pushing her way through the bouncers.

During the performance, Isabella and Gordo expose Paolo, who is actually the one who lip syncs, by turning on his microphone, revealing his real mediocre singing voice. Embarrassed, Paolo runs off stage, where his displeased manager Sergei resigns, only to be ambushed outside by paparazzi. Isabella introduces Lizzie to the crowd, and the two of them sing "What Dreams Are Made Of".

When Isabella leaves the stage, Lizzie finishes the song solo, displaying a newfound confidence. Later, they all celebrate at the hotel's after party, where Ms. Ungermeyer rescinds Gordo's punishment. Although Lizzie's parents are still proud of her, they tell her she is grounded for the summer. Lizzie and Gordo sneak away from the party to go up to the roof, where they promise to never let things change between them. The two kiss and then rejoin the party before they get into more trouble. As the film ends with fireworks spelling "The End", the animated Lizzie does a parody of Tinker Bell, winking at the audience and closing the series.

####Looking for Love####
Francis plays Libby Caruso, who has spent a whole month trying to get into show business with her singing, yet hasn't succeeded. Libby then decides to retire and get a job where she can meet the right man and get married. She is interested in pursuing Paul Davis (Jim Hutton), whom she meets in the supermarket, but Paul is not interested.

Libby later creates a clothes stand she calls the "Lady Valet". This product interests Paul who wants to promote it. Paul gets Libby on "The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson" to push her products. When Libby mentions that she was formerly a singer, Carson asks her to sing. Libby's singing career takes off, and Paul then becomes interested in Libby. Libby then changes her mind and falls for a young grocer (Joby Baker). Paul then decides to pursue Libby's roommate, Jan (Susan Oliver).

####Lord Byron of Broadway####
Starting and ending relationships gives a composer (Charles Kaley) ideas for songs, until he meets and marries a woman Marion Shilling.

####Love Comes Along####
An actress, Peggy, is stranded on the island of Caparoja, which is ruled by a local dictator, Sangredo. For a living, she sings in the local tavern, where she is seen by two sailors from a tramp steamer who are visiting the port, Johnny and Happy.  Johnny falls in love with Peggy and plans to marry her, rescuing her from her exile.  However, Sangredo hires Peggy to perform at a party he is throwing, when the original singer, Carlotta, backs out.  When Johnny finds out about the agreement, he misunderstands their relationship, and blows up at her.  Peggy gets furious in turn over the fact he could believe that about her, and calls the wedding off.

At the party, Peggy relents, and sings a love song directly to Johnny, which angers Sangredo.  He orders that Johnny be arrested, but Peggy steps forward to intercede on his behalf.  She offers to spend the night with Sangredo, if he will release Johnny and let him sail with his steamer.  He agrees, and Johnny is escorted to his ship.  However, Johnny and Happy, sneak back to the town and break Peggy out of Sangredo's house.  Fleeing, they board the steamer, escaping from the island.

####Love Me or Leave Me####
After kicking a customer for his unwelcome attention, 1920s Chicago nightclub singer and dime-a-dance girl Ruth Etting is in jeopardy of losing her job when Martin Snyder intervenes on her behalf. Snyder, known as "The Gimp" to some because of his game leg, owns a laundry business and runs a protection racket, wielding considerable clout.

Etting is desperate to get into show business. Snyder gets her a job dancing in a floor show, then pays for a singing coach, Johnny Alderman, who is also attracted to her.

Etting and Alderman are grateful, but Snyder makes it clear he expects Etting to travel to Miami with him, not for business but for pleasure. Etting declines, but Snyder's interest in her continues. Through an agent, Bernie Loomis, he arranges a radio program to feature Etting, followed by a job with the Ziegfeld Follies. His crude behavior and violent temper cause Etting multiple problems.

Johnny continues to woo Etting, but under heavy pressure from Snyder she marries him instead. His heavy-handed management continues as her successful career develops. Goaded to enter the entertainment business, Snyder decides to open a nightclub of his own. Upset at sensing a relationship resuming between Etting and Johnny during their filming of a Hollywood movie, Snyder strikes her and she runs off and wants a divorce between them. He then catches them together, shoots Johnny and is arrested.

Horrified but conflicted because of all Snyder has done for her career, Etting arranges for Loomis to bail him out of jail. At his neglected nightclub, Snyder arrives to find that Etting is performing there herself. At first enraged by what he perceives as an act of charity, Snyder finally realizes this is Etting's way of showing her appreciation, even if she can't be part of his life any longer.

####Love Me Tender####
Presley plays Clint Reno, the youngest of the four Reno brothers, who stays home to take care of his mother and the family farm as older brothers Vance, Brett and Ray fight in the American Civil War for the Confederate Army (no explanation is given why a healthy young man was exempted from military service).  The family is mistakenly informed that eldest brother Vance has been killed on the battlefield.  After four years of war, the brothers return home and find that Vance's former girlfriend Cathy has married Clint.  Although Vance accepts this wholeheartedly, the family has to struggle to reach stability with this issue.  The subplot of unresolved passion carries the film; it is made clear from the outset upon the Reno brothers' return home that Cathy still loves Vance, although she is true to the younger Clint. Honor prevails for Vance, but jealousy leads Clint into irrational rivalry for Cathy's love.

In the film's opening scenes, the three Reno brothers, serving as Confederate cavalrymen, attack a Union train carrying a federal payroll of $12,000, not knowing that the war had ended only a day before. The Confederates come to a decision to keep the money as spoils of war, an issue that will come back into the plot after the Reno brothers return home.  A conflict of interest ensues when Vance tries to return the money against the wishes of some of his fellow Confederates, all of whom  are being sought by the U.S. Government for robbery. The film reaches its tragic climax with Clint's death during a final shootout. In the end, the money is returned, the Reno brothers are released, the other three ex-Confederates are arrested, and Clint is laid to rest at the family farm.

####Lovely to Look At####
Broadway producers Al Marsh, Tony Naylor, and Jerry Ralby are desperately searching for investors to back their new show. After being continuously denied for pitches, Al receives a letter from Paris, notifying him that his Aunt Roberta has died and left him half of her dress salon located in Paris. The three men and their "lady-friend" Bubbles, the person who funds their lengthy trip, then eagerly travel to Paris in hopes of profiting from the sale of Al's share in the shop. To their dismay, the men are met with a bankrupt shop that is in no shape to have shares sold. Here is when the film introduces the two other main characters in detail, the two other women who own the other half of the dress shop, Stephanie and Clarisse. From this point forward, the film develops in two main routes of plot: getting the shop into better shape to gain money, and the many confusing and slightly cheesy love story lines. Al, Tony, and Jerry make it their mission to talk to the creditors that have been harassing the shop to give them time to showcase a fashion show that will bring Roberta's more business. This ends up being successful, and Roberta's dress shop legacy lives on. As the plot progresses, Tony is torn between his growing affection for Stephanie and his desire to finance his show. Meanwhile, Jerry falls for Clarisse, and Al has a crush on Stephanie. Eventually, Al goes for Bubbles, who has followed the men from New York City.

####Lovestruck: The Musical####
Harper Hutton was once a Broadway dance star until a leg injury cut her career short. While she has gone on to be a successful choreographer, Harper still wishes for the stardom denied to her. She has pushed her daughter Mirabella in her place, going so far as to produce an entire show around her. However, Mirabella tells her mother that she has fallen in love with Marco (a known play boy) and is flying to Italy to marry him. Convinced the man is up to no good and will ruin Mirabella's life, Harper prepares to follow Mirabella but when she drinks a "youth potion," she finds herself transformed into her 25-year-old self. Now using the alias of Debbie Hayworth, Harper befriends her daughter to ruin the wedding by trying to seduce her future son in law. When her ex-husband, Ryan, who has not spoken to her since the divorce, recognizes her, she uses the potion on him as well. While at the dinner rehearsal the night before the wedding, harper comes across a green house that is filled with Marco's unfinished wedding vows. As she realizes she may have misjudged Marco, she grabs all the letter to show her daughter before Mirabella confronts Marco of a so called brown eyed mistress (which was harper). As her daughter's wishes for her life, Harper also finds herself with a second chance to rekindle a lost spark with her ex husband after both talked about the real reason for his infidelity.

####Loving You####
Walter "Tex" Warner (Wendell Corey), a seasoned country and western bandleader past his prime, and his manager and love interest, Glenda Markle (Lizabeth Scott), work for the campaign of Texas gubernatorial candidate Jim Tallman. During a campaign stop in the town of Delville, Deke Rivers (Elvis Presley) and a workmate deliver an order of beer.  While they are unloading, the workmate talks to Glenda about Deke's singing ability, which Glenda jumps on to revive the sagging interest in the event by using local talent. She convinces Deke to sing a song with the backing of Tex's Rough Ridin' Ramblers.

Seeing the positive reception by the female audience, Glenda tries to convince Deke to join the Tex Warner Show. Driving in Deke's hotrod, she tells him about his potential. Not willing to leave his first steady job in a year, he rejects the offer, but Glenda asks him to think about it. Upon returning to town, Glenda calls the Highway Beverage Company, after which she and Tex quit the Tallman campaign to return to their own roadshow.

The following morning, as the group is leaving town, Deke accepts Glenda's offer, after being fired by his employer because of a false complaint to the drinks company by Glenda regarding a fictitious  late delivery.  Glenda just happens to have prepared a contract, which grants her half of his income.  Not realizing he is being ripped off, Deke foolishly signs it. With Tex headlining, they start touring throughout Texas, along two other acts: Susan "Susie" Jessup (Dolores Hart) and a singing trio.  As Deke's popularity grows, Glenda devises publicity stunts to leverage it. At one show, she pays two aged woman to criticize him. When they start to argue with young fans, Glenda has a press photographer document the incident. As the tour progresses, Deke and Susan become interested in one another.

After playing small venues, the group is hired to play in a large Amarillo theater on a four-day run. Convinced that it is his ticket to regain fame, Tex accepts Glenda's suggestion to share the bill with Deke, after which she calls reporters of "The Dallas Chronicle" to write a story on Deke. Later that night, Deke is provoked at a restaurant by the boyfriend of one of his fans, who wants to hear him sing a song. After singing to a tune from the jukebox, he starts a fight with him. He is later exonerated by the police.



After the end of the four-day engagement, Deke's management is offered a one-man show in Freegate, Texas, outside of Dallas. Due to the terms of the contract, Tex fires Susan and the singing trio, leaving only Deke in the show. Before he has to begin his new tour, Deke drives Susan to her family's farm. Meanwhile, in another publicity move, Glenda convinces Tex to buy an Imperial against his life insurance for Deke, inventing a story to tell Deke that it was a gift from the widow of an oil magnate. Back on the farm, Deke and Susan talk, where she tells him about being fired, after which they are about to kiss, when they are interrupted by her parents, who ask him to sing the song he promised. After Deke sings "Loving You", a surprised Susan remarks that she never heard him sing that way; Deke admits that he never felt that way before.

Glenda arrives at the farm with the Imperial, and urges him to leave with her for Freegate to do the show. On their way back, Deke confesses to Glenda that his real surname is Tompkins. Deciding to disclose his past, they drive to Allen City, to the Woodbine cemetery, where he shows her the Tomb of Deke Rivers. He explains that when the orphanage he lived in burned down eleven years earlier, he decided to bury his past, and took Rivers' name.

Meanwhile, in Freegate, the concert is cancelled by the Mayor's office, after they received complaints from parents about Deke's music.  Glenda arranges a studio telecast of a concert from Freegate in order to gain publicity; this enables her to convince the town board to allow him to perform. Deke, unhappy, is considering leaving the entertainment business.  When Glenda finds out, she talks him into performing, after which they kiss.



On the day of the telecast, Deke is shocked after learning that Tex was married to (and later divorced from) Glenda. Disillusioned, he drives off before the show.  When Glenda finds out about it from Tex, she goes after Deke, finding him after he was run off the road by crossing cattle. Glenda confesses everything to him: getting him fired and lying about the Imperial, after which she tears up their contract, before convincing him to return for the broadcast.

While the concert is delayed, fans are filmed by local newscasters defending Deke's music. Eventually, an upset Susan arrives to reveal that Deke will not appear on the show. However, Deke does appear shortly after, declaring that he had "something very important to say to somebody", and starts the show by singing "Loving You".  As the song ends, Susan goes onstage with him, after which they meet Tex and Glenda backstage. Deke offers to let them both manage him, as he is offered a recording contract. Tex and Glenda reconcile; meanwhile, Deke and Susan kiss.

####Luxury Liner####
Jeremy Bradford, the   captain of an ocean liner, visits his teenaged daughter named Polly, and  takes her to see a performance of the opera "Aida". Polly is entranced by the singing talents of Olaf Eriksen and Zita Romanka.

Upon learning that Olaf and Zita will be passengers on her father's voyage to Rio de Janeiro, she begs her father to come along, but Captain Bradford says no. He is furious when he eventually discovers that Polly is on board his ship as a stowaway, and he puts her to work in the ship's galley.

Also on board is Laura Dene, a jilted bride,  and her fiancé Charles, who can't decide if he wants to marry her. Polly and  Laura become friends, though Laura isn't aware at first that Polly is the captain's daughter. Captain Bradford forgives Polly for stowing away, and he allows her to sing a duet with Olaf aboard ship. Polly is equally pleased when her father develops a romantic interest in Laura, which turns out to be mutual.

####Madam Satan####
Socialite Angela Brooks (Kay Johnson) reads in a newspaper that her husband Bob (Reginald Denny) and "Mrs. Brooks" were in night
court together along with Bob's best friend Jimmy Wade (Roland Young). The woman is actually Trixie (Lillian Roth), a showgirl Bob has been seeing, but Bob tries to pretend that she is Jimmy's wife.

Angela is more amused than angered by the clumsy lies, but it soon becomes clear that Bob has lost interest in their marriage, as he feels Angela has become staid and cold. They each declare that they are moving out and leaving the other, but Angela instantly repents. Her maid encourages her to fight for her happiness.

Angela tells Jimmy that she will spend the night with him and Trixie. Thinking she believes they are married, Jimmy rushes to Trixie's apartment to warn her, but Angela arrives and they reluctantly pretend to be married. The scene becomes more farcical when Bob arrives as well, while Trixie is hiding; Jimmy conceals Angela under a blanket and says she is his girlfriend, a married woman whose name he will not reveal. Trixie reenters so that Bob will know the woman is not her.

After the men leave, Trixie observes that Angela was caught in her own trap. She says that the difference between them is that Trixie understands the things that a man wants in a woman, and as long as she gives them to Bob, he will stay with her. Angela takes that as a challenge and says she can outdo whatever Trixie is capable of doing.

An elaborate masquerade ball is to be held by Jimmy aboard a moored rigid airship, the Zeppelin CB-P-55. To win back her husband's affections, Angela decides to attend the soiree as a mysterious devil woman, "Madame Satan", to "vamp" him. Now hidden behind her mask and wrapped in an alluring gown that reveals more than it covers, Angela finds her errant husband and begins teaching him a lesson.

To Trixie's dismay, Bob is indeed bewitched by Angela in her devil woman persona, nothing like the demure spouse he left at home. During the ball, several exotic musical numbers are performed. A severe thunderstorm quickly moves in, and the airship is damaged and breaks free and now in danger of breaking apart. Everyone begins to panic as they are told to abandon ship and parachute to the ground.


By that time Angela has unmasked and made herself known to Bob, who quickly resents her deception, he gives her his parachute harness  and goes to find another harness for Trixie after she is unable to find one; Angela extorts a promise from Trixie to leave Bob alone in return for her own parachute harness. When Bob returns, he gives Angela his, and she parachutes safely into the open jump seat of a convertible car in which a couple are making out. Bob rides down a portion of the now broken apart zeppelin, diving at the last minute into the city reservoir just before impact. Jimmy ends up in a tree in the middle of the lion enclosure at the city zoo. Trixie parachutes through the roof of a Turkish bath full of toweled men who immediately scramble to cover themselves.

The next day, Angela, who is unharmed, and Bob, who has his arm in a sling, reconcile after a visit from a heavily bandaged Jimmy.

####Make Believe Ballroom####
The film focuses on two carhops as they compete in a mystery record contest. John Reid, in the reference book "Popular Pictures of the Hollywood 1940s", commented, "... this is one of those films which string together a musical melange through the excuse of a radio show."Self-published inline|certain=yes|date=December 2017

####Mamma Mia!####
On the fictional Greek island of Kalokairi, bride-to-be Sophie Sheridan reveals to her bridesmaids that she has secretly invited three men to her wedding without telling her mother, Donna. They are the men with whom her mother had sex during the 25-day period that was coincident with Sophie's conception: Irish-American architect Sam Carmichael, Swedish travel writer Bill Anderson, and British banker Harry Bright. She hopes that her father will give her away and believes that after she spends time with them, she will know which is her father.

That day, the three men arrive on Kalokairi. She does not reveal that she believes that one of them is her father, but does explain that it was she who sent the wedding invitations, not Donna. She hides them in Donna's goat house, and they hesitantly agree not to reveal themselves yet. As Donna is working on the goat house, spies on them and is dumbfounded to find herself facing her former lovers, demanding that they leave. She confides in Tanya and Rosie that she truly does not know which of the three fathered Sophie. Sophie finds the men aboard Bill's sailboat, and they sail around Kalokairi, telling stories of Donna's carefree youth. Sophie attempts to tell her fiancé, Sky, about her ploy but loses her nerve.

At Sophie's bachelorette party, Donna is distressed by the presence of the three men, but Rosie and Tanya assure her that they will take care of them. Sophie decides to talk with each of the men alone, but leaves Sam and Harry questioning their trip. She learns from Bill that Donna received the money for her villa from his great-aunt Sofia. Sophie comes to believe that Bill is her father; she asks him to give her away and keep their secret until the wedding. Sophie's happiness is short-lived, as Sam and Harry each pull her aside to tell her that they are her father and that they will give her away. In the morning, Donna attempts to comfort Sophie and promises to cancel the wedding; Sophie angrily reacts to this, saying she only wants to avoid her mother's mistakes. Sam attempts to discuss the wedding with Donna, and both of them realize they still have feelings for each other.

Sophie admits her actions to Sky and asks for his help, but he reacts angrily to Sophie's deception. As Sophie gets ready for the wedding, Donna admits to her that her mother disowned her after she got pregnant, and that she couldn't be more proud of having her. Donna promises to give Sophie away. As the bridal party walks to the chapel, Sam intercepts Donna, who reveals the pain she felt over losing him. At the wedding, Sam reveals that he did not go through with his engagement, but returned to find Donna with another man (Bill). The three men agree with Sophie that they do not want the paternity confirmed, each agreeing to be one-third of a father for Sophie. Knowing what both of them want, Sophie suggests to Sky that they postpone their wedding and travel the world. Sam proposes to Donna, revealing that he is now divorced and has loved her all this time, which she happily accepts.

####Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again####
In a flashback to the year 1979, a young Donna Sheridan graduates from Oxford's New College with Rosie and Tanya ("When I Kissed the Teacher"), and dreams of a Greek island named Kalokairi. Donna's mother, Ruby, is a famous singer, but she has a strained relationship with her daughter and is consistently away on tour, and does not attend the graduation. Fed up with her mother's constant negligence and determined to spend her life making memories, Donna decided to travel to Kalokairi to find her destiny.

In the present, five years after the events of the first film, Sophie is in Kalokairi preparing for the grand reopening of the Hotel Bella Donna, in honour of her recently deceased mother. Harry and Bill are unable to attend due to overseas business ventures and Sophie also feels estranged from Sky, who's been offered a permanent job in New York ("One of Us").

In Paris, Donna meets the sweet but awkward Harry Bright, who instantly falls in love with her ("Waterloo"). They spend the night together, but Donna leaves soon after for Greece. She misses her boat to Kalokairi but is offered a ride by Bill Anderson in his yacht, and the two dance and flirt ("Why Did It Have to Be Me?"). On the way, they help a stranded fisherman, Alexio, back to shore in time to save the love of his life from having to marry another. Unbeknownst to Donna, Harry has followed her to Greece; however, he arrives too late and sadly watches the boat sailing off in the distance.

In the present, Rosie and Tanya arrive to support Sophie, and she shows them the new hotel ("I Have a Dream"). This mirrors the past, in which Donna explores an abandoned farmhouse that would eventually become the hotel. A heavy storm then breaks out and Donna discovers a trapped horse and soothes it with the assistance of Sam Carmichael. In the present, a heavy storm destroys the decorations and prevents transportation to Kalokairi, much to Sophie's dismay.

Sam, who has been living in a cabin on the island, reassures Sophie that she can never let her mother down, telling her the story of how he once let Donna down. Years ago, before Sophie was born, Donna and Sam were enjoying a whirlwind romance ("The Name of the Game"), but it ended badly when Donna found out Sam was engaged to another woman, Lorraine. Heartbroken, Donna breaks up with him and tearfully watches him leave the island ("Knowing Me, Knowing You"), while the present Sam reassures Sophie of her mother's value for her.

Following Sam's departure, Donna is visited by Tanya and Rosie, who cheer her up by singing with her as Donna and the Dynamos ("Mamma Mia"). Bill returns to the island, and Donna joins him on his boat, much to the chagrin of Rosie who falls for Bill. While they are gone, Sam returns, having ended his engagement for Donna, but is saddened to hear that she is with another man. Donna discovers she is pregnant but has no idea which one of her three recent lovers is the father. Bill's great-aunt Sofia overhears Donna's wish to stay on the island and reveals she owns the abandoned farmhouse Donna has been staying in. Donna happily accepts her offer to stay there, where she eventually gives birth to Sophie.

In the present, Sophie opens up to Rosie and Tanya about her conflict with Sky and Rosie explains to Sophie how she and Bill broke up ("Angel Eyes"). Meanwhile, Bill, Harry, and Sky leave their ventures abroad to support Sophie but are told there are no boats to Kalokairi. However, a much older Alexio recognises Bill and offers the trio safe boat passage to the island as gratitude for saving his relationship. Bill convinces the others to join them for a party on Kalokairi. When the guests arrive ("Dancing Queen"), Bill and Rosie quickly reunite over their mutual grief over Donna's death, and Sophie reveals to Sky that she is pregnant, and she has never felt closer to her mother.

The celebration is suddenly disrupted when Ruby arrives, despite Sophie having decided to not invite her. Ruby explains that Sky tracked her down in New York, and she wants to build a true relationship with her granddaughter. Sophie then performs with the Dynamos in honor of Donna ("I've Been Waiting for You"), much to the pride of Ruby, who expresses slight but sincere grief over her daughter's death. It is then revealed that the hotel manager, Señor Fernando Cienfuegos, is actually Ruby's long-lost lover from 1959, and the two are joyously reunited ("Fernando").

Nine months later, Sophie has given birth to a baby boy, named Donny. At the christening, Donna's ghost proudly watches over her daughter as the two of them have one final moment before Donna fully passes on ("My Love, My Life"). The end credits show all the characters, including Donna and the younger cast, at a huge party at Hotel Bella Donna ("Super Trouper").

####Maytime####
At a small town May Day celebration, elderly Miss Morrison (Jeanette MacDonald) tries to console her young friend Kip (Tom Brown), whose sweetheart Barbara (Lynne Carver) has been offered a job on the operatic stage. Later, Barbara goes for comfort to Miss Morrison, who reveals that years ago she was the internationally famous opera diva Marcia Mornay. Miss Morrison then relates her story: Marcia, a young American singer in Paris, is guided to success by famed but stern voice teacher Nicolai Nazaroff (John Barrymore), who introduces her at the court of Louis Napoleon.

That night, Nicolai proposes to Marcia and she accepts, but they both know that she is not in love with him. Later, feeling restless, Marcia takes a ride, and she is stranded in the Latin Quarter when her driver's horse runs away. In a tavern, she meets American student Paul Allison (Nelson Eddy), who is also a singer, but not as ambitious as Marcia. Although they are attracted to each other, she refuses to see him again out of loyalty to Nicolai, but promises to lunch with him the next day. They enjoy their lunch together, but Marcia again says that they can no longer see each other and leaves. Paul then steals tickets to see her perform in the opera "Les Huguenots" that evening, and after he is thrown out of his seat by the manager, he goes to her dressing room and only leaves when she promises to join him at St. Cloud for a May Day celebration. During the celebration, Paul tells her he loves her, but she says that she owes Nicolai too much and never could break a promise to him. They part after vowing to remember their day together.

Seven years later, Marcia, who has married Nicolai, has become the toast of the operatic world, but upon her triumphant return to America, she realizes that her life is hollow. Although faithful and devoted to Nicolai, her lack of passion for him has made them both unhappy. In New York, Nicolai arranges for Marcia to sing 'Czaritza' (a fictional opera with music from Tchaikovsky's Symphony Number 5), co-starring Paul, who has become a baritone of some note. Nicolai does not realize that she is still in love with Paul. At rehearsal, they act at first as if they never have met, but Nicolai begins to suspect the truth when Archipenco (Herman Bing), Paul's singing teacher, talks about meeting Marcia in Paris many years earlier. Nicolai then recognizes Paul as the young man who left Marcia's dressing room after the performance of "Les Huguenots".

On a brilliant opening night, Nicolai becomes jealous over the obvious emotion in Paul and Marcia's onstage love scenes, but doesn't know that they plan to run away together. Later, at their hotel, when Nicolai questions Marcia, she asks for her freedom, which he promises to give. Marcia soon discovers that Nicolai has gone after Paul with a gun. At Paul's apartment, Nicolai shoots him just as Marcia arrives. Paul then dies in her arms, telling her that memories of their May Day together did last him all his life. It is presumed that Nicolai will be arrested for Paul's killing.

At the conclusion of her story, Miss Morrison helps Barbara realize that she and Kip belong together. As she watches the young lovers embrace, Miss Morrison quietly dies. Her spirit finally is united with her sweetheart in death.

####Meet Danny Wilson####
Hot-tempered singer Danny Wilson and easy-going pianist pal Mike Ryan get acquainted with Joy Carroll, also a singer. Danny slugs a cop and is thrown in jail, but Joy arranges his bail and a job at mobster Nick Driscoll's club.

Danny's got double trouble because Nick not only demands 50% of all earnings, past and future, but also jealously loves Joy. The cops are keeping an eye on Nick, a suspect in a murder.

Joy eventually realizes that she truly loves Mike, but he is reluctant to steal his best friend's girl. Danny brashly announces his engagement to Joy without first consulting her. Danny catches her with Mike, gets drunk, and punches Nick, who pulls a gun. Mike intercepts the bullet meant for his friend.

Cops follow Danny to a park, where he intends to get even with Nick. At the last second, the police save him. Danny comes to accept the romance of Joy and Mike, who happily come to see him at his next big engagement on stage.

####Merry Andrew####
Andrew Larabee teaches at a school run by his headmaster father Matthew, a traditional man who disapproves of his son's unconventional methods despite their popularity with the students. Andrew's special interest is archaeology, and he hopes to earn his father's respect through this field of study.

During the school holidays, Andrew bicycles to ancient ruins in Sussex where he believes a statue of Pan (which had been left behind by a Roman legion) can be found. Such a discovery would enable him to publish and subsequently wed Letitia Fairchild, his fiancée of five years, who insists he earn a promotion before she marries him. At the site he encounters the Gallini family traveling circus, which has been ordered to pack up and leave by the local police since the land is now property of dairy farmer Lord Elmwood. The five Gallini brothers and their cousin Selena mistake Andrew for a contractor, and when he tells them he doesn't mind if they remain, the Gallinis halt their "pulling up stakes". Lord Elmwood arrives and threatens to remove both Andrew and the circus, but Andrew realizes he's a former fellow Oxford University student with a checkered romantic past. Chastened by Andrew’s subtle threat of blackmail, Lord Elmwood agrees to give Andrew and the Gallinis a week before he starts construction on the land.

Shortly after he has begun his excavations, Andrew discovers a tunnel on the site and burrows through its ceiling and directly into the middle of the lion act during a performance. His amusingly masterful way with the animals impresses Selena, who tells him he is a born entertainer, and she teaches him to juggle. With ringmaster Antonio suffering from laryngitis, Andrew is coaxed into replacing him at the matinee. Unfortunately, Letitia and Andrew's brother Dudley arrive to check on Andrew's progress and decide to attend the circus, so Andrew is disguised as Antonio. Due to needing a lot of padding to fit into Antonio's clothes, Andrew is given a safety life jacket with a whistle, smoke and emergency flares &mdash; all of which cause havoc in mid-speech and marking Andrew as a natural clown.

After the performance, Selena is overcome with jealousy at the sight of Andrew and Letitia together, and later follows Andrew into the tunnel. Andrew does some more digging, inadvertently causing a cave-in which traps both of them overnight.  The following morning, Angelina the chimpanzee, who is tied to a stake by a rope, attempts to get a banana which has been thrown to her out of her reach. As Angelina pulls on the rope, the stake moves, causing the earth around it to collapse and revealing Andrew and Selena. When Antonio and his sons discover them, they accuse Andrew of improper behavior with their Selena and, to save the family honor, insist the two wed on the following Saturday.

Angelina the chimpanzee then finds the Pan statue Andrew was seeking and conceals it in her cage. Andrew convinces Selena his obligations at school override their wedding plans and he returns home, where he discovers his father has promoted him and Letitia is ready to accept him as her husband &mdash; with their marriage having also been set to take place on the following Saturday. On the night before the ceremony, Selena brings Andrew the statue of Pan which Angelina had given to her.

Because Andrew's class has performed well in their last test, the Headmaster has promised them a treat. However, when the boys choose to go to the Gallini Circus, which is due to arrive, Andrew refuses to take them there. So the boys disappear on the day of the wedding, and Andrew tracks them back to the circus. His father and brothers discover the statue of Pan, and Dudley mentions that a circus was in the field in which Andrew was searching for Pan. Accompanied by Letitia and her father, Andrew's father and brothers follow him to the circus where they find Andrew being chased by the Gallini brothers. When Andrew is confronted by two upset families, he finally clears things up and admits that he loves Selena.

Following the wedding ceremony, Andrew and Dudley leave the church arm-in-arm with Letitia. After the happy couple - Dudley and Letitia - drive away on their honeymoon, Matthew gives his blessing to Andrew, saying that Andrew was carrying on a fine family tradition (one of their ancestors, Thomas Larabee, had been a jester in the court of King James the First). A very happy Andrew then leaves with his bride-to-be Selena and the equally happy members of the Gallini family.

####The Merry Widow####
Playboy Captain Danilo (Maurice Chevalier) is ordered by King Achmet of Marshovia (George Barbier) to court and marry Madame Sonia (Jeanette MacDonald), a rich widow who owns a large portion of the kingdom.

####The Merry Widow####
At a New Year's Eve party in 1899, the King of Marshovia, a small European country with financial difficulty, dispatches Marshovia's ambassador to the United States to invite a young, rich widow, Crystal Radek, to Marshovia for the unveiling of a statue in honor of her deceased husband, Charlie, a Marshovian native. The king's underlying reason is to access her wealth for the nation's coffers; and, he sends out Count Danilo hoping the count can woo her. Crystal and her secretary, Kitty Riley, arrive without anyone receiving them; but, they see Count Danilo singing and dancing with the townspeople.  Crystal and Kitty report to the palace. The king directs the count sing as Crystal stands in the balcony window of her bedroom, and she is impressed. The count, a ladies' man, is not interested in settling down; but, the king orders otherwise. Count Danilo calls on Crystal, but leaves after thinking Kitty is Crystal. Crystal discovers she was invited because of her wealth, and begins packing for her return to America. However, she remains attracted to Danilo.  Because of Danilo's mistake, the two ladies allow Kitty to assume Crystal's identity as the widow Radek. Crystal attends a party where she meets Danilo who is immediately attracted to her. Crystal says her name is "Fifi" and feigns ignorance of who he is. They go to his upstairs living quarters but Crystal angrily chides Danilo for his lecherous manner and walks out. She then returns, apologizes, and they profess their love for each other. Crystal leaves without Danilo knowing where "Fifi" lives. As Danilo searches for "Fifi," Crystal wants to be sure Danilo loves her for herself and not for her wealth.  Danilo finds her, but because of his orders from the king to woo the widow, he refuses to commit himself to "Fifi."  Crystal reveals her true identity to the count, but because of their mutual deception toward each other, the couple separates.  The king says "heads will roll" because of this. Crystal, however, pays off the nation's debt and intends to leave.  No longer forced to woo Crystal, Danilo still professes his love for her and the couple reunites.

####Mickey, Donald, Goofy: The Three Musketeers####
Troubadour, a French-accented turtle, inadvertently injures the storyteller just before a live broadcast. Troubadour is hastily made to take the storyteller’s place, takes out his comic book, and tells the audience his favored version of The Three Musketeers.

In 17th century France, street urchins Mickey Mouse, Donald Duck, Goofy, and Pluto, are one day harassed by the Beagle Boys; but are saved by royal musketeers. Mickey is gifted one of their hats, inspiring him and his friends to follow their example and become musketeers themselves. Years later, the trio are employed as janitors at the musketeers' headquarters, headed by Captain Pete. Pete mocks the trio’s desire to become musketeers, deeming them all too unfit for the job in addition to that, the three of them don’t do any of the janitorial jobs correctly without messing it up and always end up destroying parts the headquarters. They are ordered to work in the laundry dungeon as punishment.

Meanwhile, Princess Minnie narrowly avoids a large safe being dropped on her by the Beagle Boys. Captain Pete, revealed to be their boss, chastises them for attempting to assassinate her, as he wants her kidnapped so that he can take over the kingdom on the night of the Opera. In response to the attempt on her life, Minnie summons Pete, demanding he produce musketeer bodyguards to protect her. Pete realises that with experienced musketeers his plan will thwart but after witnessing yet another disaster, he decides to falsely recruit the incompetent Mickey, Donald, and Goofy as musketeers, elating the trio. Minnie falls in love with Mickey at first sight.

While on a carriage ride, the Beagle Boys ambush Mickey, Donald, and Goofy, easily defeat them, and kidnap Minnie and her lady-in-waiting, Daisy. Mickey encourages his friends to not lose hope, and they all hurry to rescue Minnie and Daisy from an abandoned tower. Goofy rushes in first, running up all the stairs and out a window into a series of events that catapults him back into the tower. The musketeers then engage the Beagle Boys in another fight. Donald hides, leaving Mickey and Goofy cornered, but Goofy manages to come up with an idea to jump out the window with Mickey to engage the same events as before in order to force the bandits out of the tower and into the river. Minnie and Daisy are rescued, and Minnie and Mickey spend time together and fall deeper in love.

Pete realizes that the trio is more of a threat than he originally anticipated, so he plans to get rid of them individually. While on night patrol, Goofy is lured away from the palace by Pete’s lieutenant, Clarabelle. Donald is chased by the Beagle Boys and delivered to Pete, who reveals his true nature after trapping him in a guillotine, though Donald manages to escape. Donald returns to the palace to inform Mickey what happened. While Mickey chooses to remain and stop Pete, Donald is too frightened and abandons him. Pete then ambushes Mickey, locks him in a dungeon at Mont Saint-Michel, and leaves him to die when the tide comes in to flood the cell.

Meanwhile, Clarabelle is about to kill Goofy by throwing him into the Seine. However, the two instantly become smitten with one another, and Clarabelle has a change of heart. Clarabelle informs Goofy that Mickey is in danger. Pluto leads Goofy to Mickey’s location, with Donald being dragged along. When Donald refuses to help save Mickey, Troubadour musically berates Donald for his cowardice, angering him into going with Goofy. The duo narrowly saves Mickey. When Mickey despairs that their status as musketeers was a lie, Goofy encourages him by stating that despite their flaws, there is nothing they can't accomplish while together. Rejuvenated, Mickey leads his friends to stop Pete and save the princess.

At the theater, Pete and the Beagle Boys then capture Minnie and Daisy, imprisoning them in a chest. One of the Beagle Boys impersonates Minnie and announces Pete as the new king of France to the public. Mickey, Donald, and Goofy arrive and battle Pete and the Beagle Boys onstage. Mickey, Donald, and Goofy come together and overpower Pete, allowing them to rescue Minnie and Daisy, who profess their love for Mickey and Donald, respectively. Minnie later officially dubs Mickey, Donald, and Goofy as royal musketeers, fulfilling their dream.

####Moonlight in Havana####
Baseball star Johnny "Whizzer" Norton has been suspended by manager Eddie Daniels and the New York Blue Sox for his incorrigible behavior. When nightclub owner Barney Crane happens to hear Johnny singing, he offers him a job in the club where Gloria Jackson is currently the star performer.

Johnny is not interested until he hears Crane wants to take the whole troupe to Havana, Cuba, to entertain. Knowing that the Blue Sox have training camp in Havana, he agrees to the trip, which includes a boat voyage where the singers entertain.

Complications begin in Cuba as soon as Gloria comes to suspect Johnny's real reason for being there, while Patsy Clark, daughter of Blue Sox owner Joe Clark, shows a romantic interest in Johnny. He is reinstated by the team and quits the stage act, but has a change of heart, returning to show business and to Gloria.

####Music in the Air####
Aspiring songwriter Karl Roder (Douglass Montgomery) travels to the big city, along with a girl he is in love with, Sieglinde Lessing (June Lang), and her Father Walter Lessing (Al Shean) who has just written a new song that he thinks will take the world by storm (with lyrics by Karl).

They stumble into the stormy relationship of Opera star Frieda Hotzfelt (Gloria Swanson), and librettist Bruno Mahler (John Boles) who constantly bicker and make up. When the composer for their new show suddenly leaves town, they decide to use Walters song, partially out of convienince, and party due to the fact that Bruno has fallen in love with Sieglinde, and Frieda has fallen in love with Karl, though he does not reciprocate.

Karl, realizing the city is no place for him, decides to go back to the village, but Bruno convinces Sieglinde that she is destined for the stage, and she stays behind to replace Frieda as the Prima Donna in the opera. However, as the opening night approaches, the cast and crew all determine that Sieglinde can not act, and they ask Frieda to come back and star in the show.

Walter calls them all cruel for breaking his daughters heart, but they tell him that the audience is crueler, and they are being spared the worst of it. At the end of the day, the feelings of two amateurs are not more important than the livelihood of the crew who deserve to put on a good show.

Sieglinde and Walter return to their town, and Sieglinde goes to apologize to Karl with her tail between her legs for not listening to him, but Walter can still be proud that his music is featured in a real show, and the whole town listens to it together on the radio. Meanwhile, Frieda and Bruno are together again, and also fighting. .

####My Dream Is Yours####
The film opens in Los Angeles, where Doug Blake is dumped as a manager by Gary Mitchell. He goes to New York City to find a new singer to replace Gary on the "Hour of Enchantment" radio show. While in New York, he discovers Martha Gibson turning records in a jukebox factory. He takes her to Los Angeles and tries to introduce her to Felix Hofer. His efforts lead to a series of communication failures.

Meanwhile, Martha has begun to fall in love with Gary. Doug takes her to a party at Gary's house where Gary gets drunk and is unable to sing on his radio program. Martha replaces him and becomes successful. Gary, whose ego has driven away all of the people who once helped him, cannot find anyone who will hire or even represent him. Knowing how Martha feels about Gary, Doug helps him come back, but Gary goes back to his old ways and drives Martha away. Martha then realizes that she really loves Doug and makes up with him.

####Nancy Goes to Rio####
On the closing night of a Broadway play, leading actress Frances Elliott (Ann Sothern) hosts a party attended by many guests, including her eccentric father Gregory (Louis Calhern), who is also an actor; her seventeen-year-old daughter, Nancy Barklay (Jane Powell), an aspiring actress; and Brazilian playwright Ricardo Domingos, who is considering starring Frances in his next play.

Frances eagerly pursues the part in Ricardo's play, and though she is virtually assured of the role, Ricardo asks her not publicize the news until a final decision is made. Later, Ricardo privately tells Frances' producer that Frances may not be right for the part and that he had a younger actress in mind. Then, when Ricardo meets Nancy, he instantly knows that he has found the perfect young woman for the role.

The next day, Frances sets sail for Rio de Janeiro, where she intends to vacation and devote herself to studying her lines. Gregory accompanies Frances to Rio, while Nancy, who is about to star in a small stock company play, goes to Connecticut. After observing Nancy's acting abilities, Ricardo offers her the part that he promised Frances. Nancy accepts the role, though she is unaware that Ricardo has already promised it to her mother.

Seeking the quiet she needs to study for the part, Nancy follows her mother and grandfather to Rio. On board the ship, businessman Paul Berten overhears Nancy rehearsing her lines and mistakenly concludes that she is a deserted wife and an expectant mother. Paul takes pity on Nancy and enlists the help of his business partner, Marina Rodrigues (Carmen Miranda), to counsel the young girl.

Nancy does not know that Paul is trying to help her and mistakes his paternal concern for a marriage proposal. She rejects Paul's apparent proposal, and bids him farewell when the ship reaches Rio.

Soon after she is reunited with her mother, Nancy overhears her rehearsing her lines and immediately realizes that they are studying for the same part. The revelation devastates Nancy and prompts her to bow out of the play. She does not tell her mother that she was set to star in Ricardo's play, and instead informs her that she is in an entirely different play.

Confusion abounds when Nancy later visits Paul at his office and tries to accept the marriage proposal she thought he had made. Paul is perplexed by her behavior, and still thinks that Nancy is pregnant and troubled. He sends her home to talk to her mother about her situation, but Nancy misunderstands him and thinks that he meant for her to discuss their impending marriage with her mother.

Marina follows Nancy to her mother's house, and privately tells Frances about Nancy's supposed pregnancy. The confusion is heightened when Frances misunderstands her daughter's anguish and concludes that she must be pregnant by Paul.

Frances demands a private meeting with Paul, during which he reveals his romantic attraction to Frances. Frances leaves Paul in disgust, but the situation is soon clarified when Paul tells Gregory that he had only just met Nancy on the boat. Gregory immediately recognizes Nancy's supposed predicament from the story of the play that Frances was reading, and explains the situation to Frances.

When Frances learns the truth about Paul, she changes her impression of him and they embark on a romance. After announcing her engagement to Paul, Frances withdraws from Ricardo's play and suggests Nancy as her replacement. All ends happily when the show opens in New York with Nancy in the starring role.

####Neptune's Daughter####
Although she initially rejects an offer by Joe Backett to become his business partner at the Neptune swimming suit design company, aquatic ballet dancer Eve Barrett changes her mind when she considers the publicity potential of the job. One day, Joe learns that a South American polo team will be playing a big match in town, and he and Eve begin planning a swimming spectacle for the event. Eve tells her man-crazy sister and roommate Betty about the South American team, and Betty immediately seizes upon the idea of finding herself a date among the players. Meanwhile, Jose O'Rourke, the handsome playboy captain of the polo team, seeks relief for his injured arm from Jack Spratt, a bumbling masseur, who complains to Jose about his lack of success with women. During the massage, Jose gives Jack advice on how to attract women, stressing the importance of speaking to women in Spanish, which he calls the "language of love." Later, while looking for the famed South American team captain, Betty accidentally mistakes Jack for Jose. Jack does not reveal his identity to Betty and accepts her invitation to visit her at her house.

On their date, Jack secretly plays a Spanish language instruction record while pretending that he is speaking romantic Spanish phrases to Betty. At the end of the evening, Betty tells Eve about her date, and Eve tries to dissuade her from pursuing a romance with any of the visiting polo players. The following day, while giving a tour of the Neptune bathing suit factory, Eve meets Jose and warns him to stay away from her sister. Jose is confused by the warning but because he is attracted to Eve, he pretends to understand and agrees to break his presumed date with Betty. When Jose asks Eve to go on the date with him, she reluctantly consents and does so only to prevent him from pursuing her sister. Despite her best attempts to make her date with Jose a failure, Eve finds him attractive and enjoys her evening. Confusion abounds the following day, when Eve's maid, Matilda, tells her that Betty has gone on another date with Jose. Furious at the news, Eve goes to Jose's apartment and demands to see her sister. She searches Jose's apartment to no avail and does not understand why Betty is not there. Later, when crooked nightclub owner Lukie Luzette learns that a man named Jose is the polo team's most valuable player, he decides to kidnap Jose and keep him out of the game to ensure that his bet against his team will pay off. Lukie sends one of his henchmen to abduct Jose, but the henchman mistakenly abducts Jack instead. Jose, meanwhile, proposes marriage to Eve, and she, having found no evidence of further wrongdoings, accepts.

However, just as Eve is about to tell Betty that she intends to marry Jose, Betty informs her that she and Jose are now engaged. When Jose shows up at Eve and Betty's house, Eve, convinced that he has deceived her, shuts the door in his face. Moments later, Jose is abducted by Lukie's men and placed in captivity. Jack, meanwhile, manages to escape from his captors just as the big polo match begins. Betty, who still believes that Jack is Jose, insists that he save his team from defeat and helps him mount a horse. While Jack inadvertently scores a victory for the South American team, the police find Jose and free him. Jose arrives at the polo field in time to accept the team's trophy and to clear up Eve's confusion. Jack admits to Betty that he is an impostor, but she forgives him and assures him of her love. All ends happily as a double wedding is planned for both couples.

####New York, New York####
On V-J Day in 1945, a massive celebration in a New York City nightclub is underway, music provided by the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra. While there, selfish and smooth-talking saxophone player Jimmy Doyle (De Niro) meets small-time USO singer Francine Evans (Minnelli), who, although lonely, still wants nothing to do with Jimmy, who keeps pestering her for her phone number.

The next morning, they end up sharing a cab, and, against her will, Francine accompanies Jimmy to an audition. There he gets into an argument with the club owner. Francine, to get the audition back on track, begins to sing the old standard, "You Brought a New Kind of Love to Me"; Jimmy joins in on his sax. The club owner is impressed and, to Francine's astonishment, they are both offered a job—as a traveling boy-girl act. From that moment on, Jimmy and Francine's relationship deepens into a mix of obsession and love. But there are problems—mainly, Jimmy's tendency to fight with his co-workers, overly dramatic behavior, and his increasingly violent arguments with Francine, who becomes pregnant with his child. An especially bad shouting match between them results in Francine going into labor. Jimmy rushes her to the hospital, where she delivers a baby boy. But Jimmy is not ready to be a father, or a good husband, and he abandons his wife, declining even to see his newborn son as he leaves the hospital.

Several years later, in a recording studio, Francine records "But the World Goes Round," a powerful anthem which makes the charts and turns her into a popular entertainment figure. In the years that follow, Jimmy and Francine both find success in the music industry; he becomes a renowned jazz musician and club owner, while she becomes a successful singer and film actress.

Jimmy records a song of his on his saxophone which tops the jazz charts, and Francine cements her stardom after singing that same song, "New York, New York," for which she has provided the lyrics. Her performance, received by a wildly appreciative audience, takes place in the same nightclub where, years earlier, she and Jimmy had met. After the show, Jimmy telephones his ex-wife, suggesting they get together for dinner. Francine is tempted, heads toward the stage door exit, but at the last moment changes her mind. Jimmy, waiting on the sidewalk, realizes he has been stood up and heads off down the street, accompanied by the song he has written—the "Theme from "New York, New York"-".

####The Night Is Young####
When ballerina Fanni learns that the Vienese archduke, Paul Gustave, is expected to be in the audience of her next performance, she immediately makes plans to court the wealthy bachelor and spurn Willy Fitch, her sweetheart. Though Fanni assures her friend and fellow dancer Lisl Gluck that her pursuit of the archduke will be done strictly in the name of "patriotism," Lisl advises her to stick with Willy, a carriage driver. As planned, the handsome Paul spies the lovely ballerinas on stage, but instead of choosing Fanni, he becomes interested in Lisl. Paul, who is expected to marry Countess Rafay, is informed that for state reasons the marriage cannot take place for another six months. Seizing this opportunity, Paul decides to keep young Lisl as his secret lover during that time. Lisl, who is engaged to Toni, a failing ballet producer, is invited to attend a dinner at Paul's villa by his valet, Szereny, and though she rejects the offer, the valet tells her that she must accept the invitation. Fanny, upon learning that the archduke has passed her over in favor of her friend, tells Willy that she is now available for marriage. Willy, however, shows little enthusiasm for marriage, and sings a song in which he praises the virtues of his horse "Mitzi" instead of those of his wife-to-be.

When Lisl arrives at the archduke's palace, she is subjected to a rigorous physical inspection by Szereny to ensure that she meets Paul's requirements, an examination that she finds offensive and degrading. When she finally meets Paul, he is less than amorous and immediately tells her that his relationship with her will have nothing to do with love, and that she will be expected to live in special quarters in the house and not disturb him. Paul is surprised, however, to learn that Lisl is not interested in making love to him either. Later, when Paul spends an evening out with the Countess Rafay, the lonely Lisl invites Toni and Willy to visit her. Upon his return, the ill-tempered archduke prepares to admonish her for conducting such merriment in his home but softens when he hears her sing. A romance between Paul and Lisl soon blooms when the two are stranded on a carnival Ferris wheel and are forced to spend the night together. The next day, the lovers are visited by the jealous Toni, who accuses Lisl of walking out on their planned marriage. However, Toni immediately permits Lisl to resume her romance with Paul when he learns that the archduke intends to finance his ballet. Though Paul is willing to sacrifice his title in order to get out of his arranged marriage to Countess Rafay and marry Lisl, the emperor insists that the arranged marriage take place. When Paul informs Lisl that he must leave her, Szereny consoles the devastated Lisl, and following a tearful farewell dinner, Paul asks Lisl to kiss him and then turn around and never look back.

####Oh, For a Man!####
A talented diva named Carlotta Manson steers clear of romantic relationships because she doesn't want to interfere with her career. Bela Lugosi has a relatively small role as her singing teacher, and in one of his only scenes, Carlotta makes a comical remark to him about one of her co-stars smelling like garlic (ironic in light of Lugosi's later involvement with "Dracula"). One night when she returns home, she is robbed by a thief named Barney McGann. When the opera-loving Barney learns his victim is his idol, he befriends her and they begin a romance. Carlotta even gets him a job in the chorus and proposes marriage to him. They go off to an Italian villa, but Barney changes his mind and walks out on her. Carlotta returns to New York to resume her singing career, but later Barney follows her there and they wind up reunited with a kiss.

####On an Island with You####
Rosalind Reynolds, a swimming sensation, is starring in a film set on a Hawaiian tropical island along with her fiancé, Ricardo Montez. A military technical adviser for the film, U.S. Navy Lt. Lawrence Y. Kingslee falls in love with Rosalind. Yvonne Torro, her best friend and fellow movie star, secretly wants Ricardo for herself.

Larry, who had met Rosalind three years before on a USO show at his Pacific base, makes it obvious that he is smitten with her. After kissing her on the set, showing up Ricardo, he plans to spirit her away on his aircraft. Later, at the Royal Aloha hotel, the film cast and crew are entertained by real-life orchestra leader Xavier Cugat and his orchestra. The next day, taking advantage of a scene where Rosalind flies over the set, Larry flies to the actual island where he first met her. After asking for a kiss, he knows that Rosalind is attracted to him. Returning to their aircraft, the two discover that the natives have stolen parts, effectively stranding them on the island.

Meanwhile, her fiancé and the search party he formed are captured by the cannibals who inhabit the tropical isle, but are saved by his rival. After everyone leaves the island, complications begin. With Larry facing a court-martial, Rosalind tries to help him by accepting blame for the unauthorized flight to the island. Eventually, they learn that Yvonne has become romantically involved with Ricardo, while Larry and Rosalind also realize they are in love.

####On Moonlight Bay####
In a small Indiana town in the mid-1910s, the Winfield household have just moved into a larger house in a nicer neighborhood. The family includes: the father George, who is a banker, his wife Alice, their grown tomboyish daughter Marjorie (nicknamed “Margie”), their mischievous precocious trouble-making son Wesley, and their exasperated housekeeper Stella. No one but George is happy about the move, until Marjorie meets their new neighbor, William Sherman, home on a break from his studies at Indiana University. The two are immediately attracted to each other, which makes Margie change her focus from baseball to trying to become a proper young woman as perceived by society at the time.

Margie and Bill develop a romantic relationship despite, or perhaps because of, Bill's unconventional thoughts on life, including not believing in the institution of marriage or the role money plays in society.

The road to a happy life between Margie and Bill is hindered by distance (as Bill returns to school), Margie's attempts to learn perceived feminine things, her father’s disapproval and preference for another suitor, her brother’s continual meddling, and the U.S. entry into World War I.

Margie’s father softens when her brother breaks a window with their father’s old slingshot. This ultimately makes the father more receptive to her relationship with Bill and the movie reaches a happy ending.

####On the Avenue####
Gary Blake stars in a new show, "On the Avenue", with Mona Merrick. The show contains a satire on the richest girl in the world, Mimi Carraway. Mimi and her father are in the audience on opening night and feel insulted. She goes backstage and tries to get Gary to take the skit out of the show. He refuses and calls her a "bad sport".

Shocked by the remark, Mimi decides to make a date with Gary. They spend the entire evening together and, by morning, have fallen in love. He finally agrees to revise the skit so it can no longer hurt the Carraways. Mona is in love with Gary and is furious when she hears about Gary's date with Mimi. When the Carraways appear to see the revised sketch, she changes it, without Gary's knowledge, making it worse than before. The Carraways decide to file suit against Gary.

To get back at him, Mimi buys the show from the producer and embarrasses Gary by hiring a paid audience to walk out on the show. Word leaks out to the press and makes Gary the laughingstock of New York. Furious, he tears up his contract, refusing to work with Mimi. Soon, Mimi becomes engaged to Arctic explorer Frederick Sims. On her wedding day, Mona arrives and tells Mimi that she, not Gary, changed the skit. Mimi runs out of the wedding and goes to city hall with Gary to be married.

The film's action is interspersed with songs from the play, including Berlin's songs "He Ain't Got Rhythm," and "Let's Go Slumming On Park Avenue."

####One Hour with You####
Parisian doctor Andre Bertier is faithful to his loving wife Colette, much to the surprise of his lovely female patients. But when Colette's best friend Mitzi Olivier insists upon being treated by Dr. Bertier, his devotion is put to the test.

####One Night of Love####
Opera singer Mary Barrett (Grace Moore) leaves to study music in Milan, Italy to the disappointment of her family in New York City. Mary gets a job at the Cafe Roma, where Giulio Monteverdi (Tullio Carminati), a famous vocal coach, hears her sing. Giulio promises to make Mary a star if she will allow him to control her life. He also tells her that there cannot be any romance between the two of them, as that would distract from the process of growing her talent. Mary discovers she has stagefright as she prepares for a tour of provincial opera houses, however Giulio helps her overcome it.

Years later, still under Giulio's tutelage, Mary begins to tire of his dominance and discipline. The two meet one of Giulio's old pupils, Lally (Mona Barrie), while in Vienna. Lally once tried to be romantic with Giulio, but was rejected. This past history renders Mary jealous and she pretends to have laryngitis. Mary thinks Giulio has gone to Lally to rekindle a romance, and so visits Bill Houston (Lyle Talbot), a longtime friend who has proposed marriage. In a jealous huff, Mary decides not to sing that night in order to punish Giulio. Giulio realizes what is going on and tells Mary that Lally will replace her on stage, but then proposes to Mary.

She decides to go on, and Mary's performance of Bizet's "Carmen" wins her an invitation to the Metropolitan Opera, her dream venue. Giulio, however, still does not believe that she is ready for such a venue. Later at dinner, Lally lies to Mary by telling her that she is still involved with Giulio. On the night of her debut in "Madame Butterfly", Mary is too nervous to go on stage until she sees Giulio in his usual place in the prompter's box.

####The Opposite Sex####
Kay Hilliard, a former nightclub singer, discovers that her husband, theater producer Steven, is having an affair with showgirl Crystal Allen. Kay is the last to find out among her circle of gossiping girlfriends. Kay travels to Reno to divorce from Steve who then marries Crystal, but when Kay learns that Crystal is not faithful to Steve, she starts fighting to win her ex-husband back.

####Palmy Days####
Eddie Simpson's family bakery/restaurant grows into a huge success; thanks to Simpsons's entertainment shows and a
fortune-telling booth run by the mysterious Yolando.

When Simpson discovers the fortune-teller is running a racket that cheats people out of their savings; Yolando and his henchman do their best to dispose of him by feeding him into one of the large bakery ovens. However, their efforts fail.

####Paradise, Hawaiian Style####
Rick Richards (Presley) returns to his home in Hawaii after being fired from his job as an airline pilot. He and his buddy Danny Kohana (James Shigeta) go into the helicopter charter business together. But Rick's reckless flying and his careless flirting with local women may cost Rick the business and Danny his home. This tendency seems to get in the way of their secretary, Judy "Friday" Hudson (Suzanna Leigh) and Rick getting together.

Disaster looms as Danny becomes overdue on a flight after Rick has been grounded by government officials. Rick must decide if he should risk losing his license forever by going to look for his friend.

####Paris Blues####
On his way to see Wild Man Moore at the train station, Ram Bowen, a jazz musician living in Paris, encounters a newly arrived tourist named Connie Lampson and invites her to see him perform that night at Club 33. Connie is not interested, but her friend Lillian insists they go see him. After Ram finishes performing with Eddie, a fellow American expatriate, the four of them leave the club in the early morning. When Ram suggests that he and Connie go off to have a private breakfast together, she becomes offended, and Ram is angered at being rejected. However, Lillian, undeterred by Ram's attraction to her friend, convinces him to apologize before pursuing him. The two sleep together while Connie and Eddie continue to walk around Paris.

Over the following weeks the couples grow closer, but Connie is angry that Eddie has abandoned America for France, insisting that the only way race relations can improve in the U.S. is if people stay and work together in order to change things. Eddie says he is content to stay in Paris, where he experiences far less bigotry and discrimination, is able to carve out a career as a talented musician. Lillian tries to convince Ram to enter into a more committed relationship and move back to the U.S. with her. Ram, aware that she has two children from a previous marriage and lives in a small town, breaks off their relationship, telling her he is dedicated to his music. Meanwhile, Eddie and Connie declare their love for one another. They discuss getting married, but this falls through when Eddie states his refusal to live in the United States for a full year. Their hearts broken by their respective lovers, Connie and Lillian make plans to return home early.

Connie, in a desperate last attempt to reach out to Eddie, follows him to a party where she tells him she is leaving Paris for good. Unwilling to lose her, Eddie decides to return to America to join Connie, but will follow in a few weeks as he needs to wrap up his affairs in Paris before leaving. Ram attends a meeting with a record producer, Bernard, who dismisses a composition Ram has been working on, dashing his hopes of a more prominent and respected music career. However, he tells Ram that he has the potential to become a serious composer, if he works hard and truly studies music. Crushed, he tracks down Lillian, and agrees to leave for America with her. But as the women depart, Ram arrives late and tells Lillian that he will not be joining her, as he does not want to give up on his music. As the train carrying Connie and Lillian leaves the station, Ram walks away with Eddie. In the final shot, French workers cover a billboard advertising Wild Man Moore's appearance with a promo for Larousse publishing.

####Peach O'Reno####
Aggie Bruno (Cora Witherspoon) has had enough of her husband, Joe (Joseph Cawthorn), and decides to get a divorce in Reno. She meets with lawyers Wattles and Swift (Wheeler and Woolsey), the latter of the two agreeing to represent Aggie in court. Swift suggests that Aggie be "caught" with another man. Meanwhile, Joe Bruno has also headed to Reno, and is being represented in court by Wattles. Wattles suggests that Joe be "caught" with another woman.

Meanwhile, Ace Crosby (Mitchell Harris), an angry Arizona gambler, wants to shoot Wattles for representing his wife in a previous divorce case. Swift suggests that Wattles dress as a woman in order to avoid being found by the gambler. That evening, Wattles and Swift do the same thing that they do every evening: turn their office into a casino. Swift arrives at the casino pretending to be Aggie Bruno's love interest. To add to the confusion, Wattles (dressed as a woman) shows up with Joe Bruno, pretending to be his love interest.

####Peacock Alley####
The film takes place entirely in New York City, removing the Paris portion of the earlier film's plot. Rather than falling in love with a man who happens along her way, Claire is actively looking for a husband. Two possibilities present themselves: a Texan, who ultimately rejects Claire because he believes her to be immoral, and Stoddard, who agrees to marry her in the end.

####Pennies from Heaven####
In 1934, Chicago sheet-music salesman Arthur Parker (Steve Martin) is having a hard time, both in his business and at home with his wife Joan. His business and marriage are failing, and Joan (Jessica Harper) refuses to give him the money she inherited from her father to start his own business.

Arthur's dream is to live in a world that is like the songs he tries to sell. He is refused a bank loan, although he fantasizes that he gets it. In his travels, Arthur meets schoolteacher Eileen (Bernadette Peters) and falls in love with her instantly. They embark on a short affair, but Arthur leaves her and returns to Joan, who is desperate to keep him and agrees to give him the money he wanted. Arthur denies having an affair, though Joan is sure he is lying.

Eileen gets pregnant by Arthur and is fired. With nowhere to go, she takes up with stylish pimp Tom (Christopher Walken). Eileen is attracted to Tom's "badness", and he arranges for her to have an abortion.

When Arthur meets Eileen again, she is now a prostitute calling herself "Lulu". They resume their romance, and Eileen leaves Tom and her sordid life. Impulsively, Arthur convinces her to run away with him. Having failed to sell his business, Arthur and Eileen break into the store one night and trash it, smashing its phonograph records (except for "Pennies from Heaven"). To supplement their income, Eileen keeps prostituting in spite of Arthur's objections.

A blind girl whom Arthur knew superficially is raped and murdered by an accordion-playing hobo to whom Arthur had given a ride earlier in the film. The police's suspicions are confirmed by Joan, who reveals to them Arthur's sexual predilections to get back at him for cheating on her. The police find Arthur trying to leave town with Eileen, and arrest him for murder; he is soon convicted and sentenced to death. At the gallows, he recites the lyrics from the song "Pennies from Heaven". In one final fantasy, Arthur and Eileen are reunited, with Arthur saying, "We couldn't have gone through all that without a happy ending. Songs ain't like that, are they?"

####The Petty Girl####
In New York City, George Petty (Robert Cummings) tries to convince car manufacturer B. J. Manton to use pretty women to help advertise his dreary new car model. He is not succeeding when Manton's daughter, the often-married Mrs. Connie Manton Dezlow (Audrey Long), interrupts the business meeting, takes a liking to the handsome young artist, and makes herself his patron. Soon, she has furnished him with a lavish apartment, complete with a butler named Beardsley (Melville Cooper). She also talks him into abandoning his cheesecake paintings in favor of more respectable portraits.

Meanwhile, Victoria Braymore (Joan Caulfield), the youngest professor at Braymore College, attends a conference in New York to defend the school against charges that it is outdated and old-fashioned. She has led a sheltered life, raised by the older professors after the death of her parents (the founders of the college), and is only allowed to go with a chaperone, her friend Dr. Crutcher (Elsa Lanchester).

George meets Victoria in an art museum. She resists his attempts to become better acquainted, but finally agrees to dinner, provided he finds a date for Dr. Crutcher. Desperate, he gets Beardsley to pretend to be his uncle Ben. The dinner is a disaster; Beardsley gets drunk, Dr. Crutcher thinks "she" is George's date, and Victoria is distant. Finally, George decides to leave, when Victoria surprises him by accompanying him to a nightclub frequented by artists. When a drink is spilled on her dress, she goes to the powder room, where the attendant offers to iron it. However, the police raid the establishment; in the rush of escaping people, Victoria ends up getting arrested dressed only in her slip. Her picture is published on the front page of the newspaper. An almost identical scene occurred in the movie Together Again (1944).

When she gets out of jail, she cuts short her trip and returns to Braymore. George follows her and gets a job as a busboy at the faculty residence. Using the newspaper photograph, he blackmails her into going out with him. Their first two "dates" end badly. Then, when he has her sneak out to pose for a painting in his room, she is seen by nosy Professor Whitman (Mary Wickes), who misinterprets the situation. Though the other professors are inclined to leniency, Victoria cheerfully quits, finally agreeing with George's view that she is being stifled there.

Victoria goes to George's apartment, where she meets her rival for his affections, Mrs. Dezlow. She tries to persuade George that Mrs. Dezlow is doing the same thing to him that the professors did to her, namely molding him to satisfy her wishes and expectations, but he does not agree. Victoria then sneaks into the art museum and replaces one of the paintings with the one George painted of her in a bathing suit. The resulting publicity lands her a starring role in the burlesque. Embarrassed, George gets an injunction preventing her from performing as the "Petty Girl".

Since the injunction only applies to public places, Victoria crashes the stuffy private party being given by Mrs. Dezlow to promote George. There, she, a male quartet, and twelve beautiful women (including an uncredited Tippi Hedren in her film debut), each representing a month, perform a musical number, much to the appreciation of B. J. Manton. The businessman changes his mind about George's initial proposal. George realizes Victoria is right, and they kiss and make up.

####Pin Up Girl####
Lorry Jones (Betty Grable) is working as a hostess at the local USO canteen in "Missoula, Missouri," where she performs as a singer and signs photographs of herself for adoring soldiers.

It is her job to keep them happy and routinely accept every marriage proposal. One of her suitors, Marine Sergeant George Davis (Roger Clark), does not realize she has no real intention of marrying him.

Meanwhile, Lorry and her best friend, Kay Pritchett (Dorothea Kent), have accepted jobs as stenographers in Washington, D.C., but they tell the soldiers that they are going on a USO tour.

The night before leaving for Washington, D.C., they go out partying in New York City. Upon arriving in the city by train, they are welcomed by Navy hero Tommy Dooley (John Harvey), who fought at the Battle of Guadalcanal.


That night, they try to get into the Club Chartreuse, but are not allowed to go in without escorts. Lorry does not want to leave and tells the lie that she is meeting Tommy and his friend, Dud Miller (Dave Willock), in the club. She is not aware that Tommy is the best friend of Eddie Hall (Joe E. Brown), the club's owner. When Eddie is told that Lorry and Kay are escorts of Tommy, he lavishes them with champagne.

When Tommy and Dud arrive, Tommy thinks Eddie has set them up in blind dates with the girls. Dud believes the two women are actresses. Before Tommy can prove Dud wrong, Kay drunkenly tells them she and Lorry are in the Broadway musical "Remember Me".

Molly McKay (Martha Raye), star singer at the club, does not believe Kay, until Lorry, telling everyone her name is Laura Lorraine, performs a song without trouble. Lorry and Kay eventually spend their night dancing with Tommy and Dud and leave for Washington the next morning. The men lose the women's address by accident. Two weeks later, Lorry and Kay are insulted with not having heard from their beaus.

Meanwhile, Lorry is bored with her life as a stenographer, until Tommy and Dud surprisingly show up in Washington. Lorry is assigned as his stenographer, but does not want him to find out her real career. She decides to disguise herself, so he will not recognize her as Laura.

Lorry sets up a date between Tommy and "Laura." At their date, Tommy tells her he loves dating an actress. She is hurt and tells him she is going to give up her stage life. Tommy responds by offering her a job at Eddie's club. Molly is jealous when she finds out, but sees an opportunity to get rid of her when George comes to town and recognizes her as Lorry. She introduces George to Tommy, who is insulted when he hears the truth. When Lorry finds out what has happened, she tells George she has no intention of marrying him.

Laura then dresses as stenographer Lorry and visits Tommy to beg him to give "Laura" another chance. Things do not go her way, however, so she reveals that she is both Lorry and Laura. Tommy eventually forgives her.

####The Pirate####
Manuela Alva, who lives in the small Caribbean village of Calvados, dreams of being swept away by the legendary Pirate, Mack "the Black" Macoco. However, her aunt and uncle (who have raised her) insist that she marry the town mayor, the rotund and bullying Don Pedro.

Shortly before her wedding, Manuela visits a nearby town, Port Sebastian. A traveling circus has arrived, and Serafin, its handsome leader, flirts with all the girls in the song "Niña". When he encounters Manuela, however, he falls in love with her at first sight. He compliments her beauty and begs her not to marry Don Pedro, but, angered, she hurries away. That night, however, she can't sleep, and sneaks out to go see Serafin's show.

At the show, Serafin hypnotizes Manuela, thinking that she will admit that she loves him. Instead, she wildly sings and dances about her love for "Mack the Black." Serafin awakens her with a kiss, and she flees in horror.

On Manuela's wedding day, the traveling players arrive in Calvados. Serafin begs her to join his troupe, and asks her to admit that she loves him. Don Pedro, hearing noise in her room, arrives at her door, and asks her to go away so that he can teach Serafin a lesson.

Serafin recognizes Don Pedro as Macoco, retired and obese. He blackmails Macoco with this information, swearing to tell it to Manuela if Don Pedro forbids the performers from putting on a show. Serafin then decides to pretend to be Macoco in order to win over Manuela. He reveals himself before the whole town as Macoco, then asks Manuela if she will come with him; she again refuses. Still, watching from her window as he dances, she begins to daydream about him.  The next day, he threatens to burn down the town if he can't have her. Finally, she happily agrees to go with him.

One of Serafin's troupe accidentally reveals his plan to Manuela. To get her revenge, she first pretends to seduce him, then attacks him with words and throws objects. She accidentally knocks him out, then she realizes that she loves him, and sings "You Can Do No Wrong."

Meanwhile, Don Pedro convinces the viceroy that Serafin is the real Macoco and should hang for it. He plants treasure in Serafin's prop trunk to make him look like a pirate. The army arrests him, and Manuela's protests can't free him.  On the night of his hanging, Manuela finally gets to look at the false evidence, and recognizes a bracelet with the same design as the wedding ring that Don Pedro gave her, and realizes that he is the pirate.

Serafin asks to do one last show before he is hanged, and sings and dances "Be a Clown". As a finale, he plans to hypnotize Don Pedro into admitting he is Macoco, but Manuela's aunt uses her parasol to break the mirror that Serafin uses to hypnotize people. Panicked, Manuela pretends to be hypnotized and sings "Love of My Life," vowing everlasting devotion to Macoco. Don Pedro, jealous, reveals himself as the true Macoco and seizes her. Serafin's troupe attacks him with all the items and juggling balls, and the lovers embrace. Manuela joins Serafin's act and the film ends with them singing a reprise of "Be a Clown."

####The Pirates of Penzance####
In the 1850s, young Frederic was sent in the care of his nursemaid, Ruth, to be apprenticed to a pilot. But she misunderstood her instructions, being hard of hearing, and apprenticed him instead to the Pirate King. Now turning 21 years old, his service is finished, so he decides to leave the Pirates of Penzance. He has a strong "sense of duty" and vows to lead a blameless life and to exterminate the pirates. Ruth wants him to take her with him, but just then he meets some young maidens, the daughters of Major-General Stanley, and realizes that Ruth is "plain and old".

One of the maidens, Mabel, agrees to rescue him from his life of piracy by offering her love, and Frederic accepts. Soon, however, the pirates return and seize the young ladies, planning to marry them. Their father then arrives and lies to the pirates, telling them that he is an orphan. He knows that the pirates are orphans themselves and never attack another orphan; the pirates let him and his daughters go free.

Later, General Stanley wrestles with his conscience, having told a lie. Mabel and Frederic try to cheer him up, and Frederic has engaged the constabulary to help him defeat the pirates. The police arrive, but they turn out to be timid. Then the Pirate King and Ruth find Frederic alone. They have reviewed the fine print on his apprenticeship indenture and have discovered that he is still a pirate because he was born in a leap year on February 29, and he will not be out of his indentures to the pirates until his 21st birthday in 1940. Mabel agrees to wait for Frederic until then.

The Police return and, hearing the pirates approach, they hide. The pirates arrive and seize the still guilt-ridden Major-General. Mabel coaxes the police to battle the pirates, but they are quickly defeated. However, the Sergeant of Police calls on the pirates to "yield in Queen Victoria's name". The pirates tearfully do so and release the Major-General, surrendering to the police. However, Ruth reveals that the pirates are all "noblemen who have gone wrong"; the Major-General pardons them and invites them to resume their parliamentary ranks and to marry his beautiful daughters. All ends happily.

####Pixel Perfect####
Teenager Roscoe is trying to help his best friend, Samantha. Sam's band, the Zetta Bytes, is struggling. Despite her vocal talents and guitar skills, Sam is told that she needs to dance in order for their band to succeed. Roscoe uses his father's computerized holographic equipment to create a sentient, autonomous humanoid hologram called Loretta to dance for the band.

At their first gig, a school dance, Loretta is a big hit with the audience. The entire band loves her, except for Sam, who is jealous of Loretta's "perfection," and suspects that Roscoe likes Loretta more than her. Despite her feelings, Sam agrees to take care of Loretta to keep Roscoe's father from finding and deleting her. The Zetta Bytes second performance goes well - until the very end when Loretta starts to lose her pattern, and the crowd realizes she is a hologram. After a moment of silence, the crowd erupts in applause. The novelty of a holographic rockstar catapults the Zetta Bytes to fame. Sam becomes jealous of the attention Loretta is receiving while Loretta struggles with her identity as a software computer program and hologram. She wants to experience life as a real human being. After a major argument with Roscoe, Loretta escapes into the internet, and emails herself to Sam's computer. Roscoe becomes frantic, and rushes to Sam's place for help.

During which, Sam confronts him on his real feelings for Loretta. Sam reminds him that Loretta is not real. When Roscoe rebuffs her statement asking "What is real, anyway?" Sam responds by stating that she is real and she has always been there. Sam then kisses Roscoe, but when he does not respond to her affection, Sam is left hurt. She gives him Loretta and leaves. Later on, Roscoe realizes that Sam was right and soon realizes he may return his feelings for Sam.

Roscoe and his father attend a meeting with Harshtone Records, the company that is recording The Zetta Bytes's first CD. Harshtone informs Roscoe that they have decided to team up with Skygraph, his father's company, and make more holographic rock stars. But when Roscoe realizes that they are planning to rob the holograms of their individuality, he argues that Loretta is not just a computer program, but a sentient, autonomous person with a mind and will of her own sensations, thoughts, personality, feelings, and emotions. Despite Roscoe's father siding with him, Loretta is taken from them. At the last moment Daryl Fibbs, an employee at Harshtone, has a change of heart and decides that every performer, including holograms like Loretta, should have a choice. He gives her the option to stay at Harshtone or escape into the internet. Loretta goes into the internet a second time, and Fibbs quits Harshtone.

The Zetta Bytes cannot find Loretta before their next concert. Sam tries to replace Loretta on stage, but falls, slipping into a coma. When Loretta comes back out of the web and sees that Sam is unconscious, she enters Sam's brain through an EEG machine in an effort to help her. She arrives in Sam's mind, finding Sam caught in her own depression. Loretta shows Sam that she hates that everyone thinks she is perfect, and that she envies Sam's humanity. They discover that there is only enough room for one of them in Sam's brain at a time. Sam wakes from her coma, with Loretta inside of her mind. In a real body for the first time. Loretta steps outside into the rain understanding that this situation must stop immediately after realizing how far the events have progressed. Sam is struck by lightning, and when she awakens, it seems that Loretta has fled her brain and is no longer there as a forever damaged hologram, forever in Roscoe's computer as an AI program.

Sam sings about Loretta being permanently nonexistent during the Zetta Bytes' closing show. She and Roscoe have started dating. The group discovers there was an additional person singing the chorus after Sam has finished singing. Roscoe remarks that The Zetta Bytes have a guardian angel after seeing a glimpse of Loretta in the limelight.

####The Pleasure Seekers####
Susie Higgins arrives in Madrid and moves in with her friend Maggie Williams and Maggie's roommate Fran Hobson. Still a virgin, Susie is surprised to find both of the other girls have active dating lives. Secretary Maggie has recently ended an affair and is now seeing her married boss Paul Barton, much to the dismay of Paul's jealous wife Jane. At the same time, Maggie's co-worker Pete McCoy is in love with Maggie, who barely notices him. Fran, an aspiring actress, flamenco dancer and singer, eagerly pursues Spanish doctor Andres Brioñes. While at the Museo del Prado, Susie catches the eye of wealthy playboy Emilio Lacayo, who adds her to his already large group of girlfriends.

The three girls spend the summer attending various parties while pursuing and being pursued by the men in their lives. In the end, Maggie chooses McCoy over Barton, Dr. Brioñes settles down with Fran, and Lacayo with Susie. All of them decide to stay in Madrid.

####Pocahontas####
In 1607, the Susan Constant travels from London to the New World, carrying English settlers from the Virginia Company. The settlers, including Captain John Smith, talk of adventure, finding gold, fighting "Injuns" and potentially settling in the new land.

In the Powhatan tribe in Werowocomoco, Tsenacommacah, Virginia, Pocahontas, the daughter of Chief Powhatan, fears being possibly wed to Kocoum, a warrior whom she sees as too serious for her own free-spirited personality. After having a dream about a spinning arrow, Pocahontas visits Grandmother Willow, a spiritual talking willow tree that alerts her to the arriving English.

The voyage's leader Governor Ratcliffe, who only seeks wealth and status, has Jamestown built in a wooded clearing and immediately has the crewmen dig for gold. John departs to explore the wilderness and encounters Pocahontas. At first, he cannot understand her language, but Grandmother Willow gives him the ability to do so. They quickly bond, fascinated by each other's worlds, and end up falling in love. After a fight between settlers and natives, Powhatan orders the natives to stay away from the Englishmen. Pocahontas, however, disobeys him and keeps meeting with John. Unfortunately, Pocahontas's best friend, Nakoma, discovers the secret relationship and warns Kocoum. Ratcliffe also learns of John's encounters and angrily warns him against sparing any Natives.

Later, John and Pocahontas meet with Grandmother Willow and plan to bring peace between the colonists and the tribe. While by both parties spy on the couple, John and Pocahontas share a kiss. Furious, Kocoum attacks and attempts to kill John, but a young settler, Thomas, who had been ordered by Ratcliffe to follow John, intervenes and kills Kocoum. John orders Thomas to leave before the tribesmen arrive and capture John, before retrieving Kocoum’s body. Enraged at Kocoum's death, Powhatan angrily berates Pocahontas for leaving the village and declares war on the English, beginning with John's execution at dawn.

After reaching Jamestown, Thomas warns the settlers of John's capture. Ratcliffe then rallies his men to battle, using this as an excuse to annihilate the tribe and find their nonexistent gold. That same night, Powhatan also orders his men to prepare for battle. A desperate Pocahontas visits Grandmother Willow and realizes the arrow from John's compass is the same spinning arrow from her dream, which leads to her destiny. Morning comes, and Powhatan and his tribe drag John to a cliff for his execution. Meanwhile, Ratcliffe leads the armed colonists to fight Powhatan's warriors. Just as Powhatan is about to execute John and start the war, Pocahontas intervenes and finally convinces him to end the fighting between the two groups and spare John's life. Both sides stand down, and John is released. Unmoved, Ratcliffe orders his men to attack anyway, but they refuse. Ratcliffe fires his musket at Powhatan, but John takes the shot to save him. Livid, the settlers turn on Ratcliffe and detain him for hurting their comrade.

John is nursed back to health by the tribe but must return to England for his wounds to fully heal. Ratcliffe is also sent back to face punishment for his crimes against the settlement. John asks Pocahontas to come with him, but she chooses to stay with her tribe to help keep the peace. John leaves without Pocahontas, but with Powhatan's blessing to return anytime in the future. At the end, Pocahontas stands atop a cliff, watching the ship carrying John depart.

####Porgy and Bess####
Set in the early 1900s in the fictional Catfish Row section of Charleston, South Carolina, which serves as home to a black fishing community, the story focuses on the title characters: crippled beggar Porgy, who travels about in a goat-drawn cart, and the drug-addicted Bess, who lives with stevedore Crown, the local bully. While high on cocaine supplied by Sportin' Life, Crown kills Robbins after the latter vanquishes him in a craps game; Bess urges Crown to flee. Sportin' Life suggests she accompany him to New York City, an offer Bess declines. She seeks refuge with her neighbors, all of whom refuse to help her. Porgy finally agrees to let her stay with him.

Bess and Porgy settle into domestic life together and soon fall in love. Just before a church picnic on Kittiwah Island, Sportin' Life once again approaches Bess, but Porgy warns him to leave her alone. Bess wishes to stay with Porgy, since he cannot attend the picnic because of his disability, but he urges her to go. After the picnic ends, and before Bess can leave, Crown, who has been hiding in the woods on the island, confronts her. She initially struggles to resist him but Crown rapes her. The others, not knowing just what has happened, leave and return to the mainland.

Two days later, Bess returns to Catfish Row in a state of delirium. When she recovers, she remembers what happened. Feeling that she betrayed Porgy, she begs his forgiveness. She admits she is unable to resist Crown  and asks Porgy to protect her from him. Crown eventually returns to claim his woman, and when he draws his knife, Porgy strangles him. He is detained by the police merely to identify the body, but Sportin' Life, who has fed Bess cocaine, convinces her Porgy inadvertently will reveal himself to be the murderer. In her drugged state, she finally accepts his offer to take her to New York. When Porgy returns and discovers she is gone, he sets off to find her.

####Presenting Lily Mars####
Lily Mars (Judy Garland) is a small-town girl with big-city ambitions. She contrives to audition for a Broadway producer whose father was the local physician and whose family piano her father also happened to tune. However, the producer wants nothing to do with her. She then heads to Broadway hoping to convince him to cast her, but after a series of disappointments, the best she can manage is an understudy job.

####Radio City Revels####
A struggling song-writing team strike gold when an aspiring writer arrives in New York as he composes masterpieces in his sleep. They begin to appropriate his work under their own name, scoring major hits.

####Raise Your Voice####
Terri Fletcher is a Flagstaff, Arizona teenager who has a passion for singing and dreams of becoming a professional singer. She wants to participate in a music program that could give her a $10,000 scholarship. Her overprotective father Simon, a second-generation restaurateur, disapproves of Terri's plans, stating that being a singer may not be a worthwhile life choice. Simon believes that Terri will get hurt if she goes to Los Angeles and would prefer if she continues running the family business. Simon thinks this is the only way to keep Terri safe.

Terri is very close to her elder brother Paul, who fully supports her dream, despite their father. At Paul's graduation-day barbecue, he has a fight with Simon, who, in the heat of it, grounds him. That night, Terri sneaks Paul out of the house to attend a Three Days Grace concert. On the way back, Paul was planning on going to college and leaving right away. They have a car accident, hit by a drunk driver. Terri awakens in the hospital, and learns that Paul was killed.

Terri blames herself for Paul's death, wants to quit singing and not attend the music program. However, her mother Frances says that it's not her fault and that Paul would have wanted Terri to attend the program. She eventually convinces Terri to go, telling Simon that Terri plans to stay with her aunt Nina in Palm Desert, California for the summer while she actually goes to Los Angeles.

Terri arrives in Los Angeles and has a few difficulties: her jacket is stolen, her cab driver is crabby, and initially can't get into the music school. While in the program, Terri makes new friends, including fun-loving DJ Kiwi, quiet pianist Sloane, and her roommate and talented violinist Denise. Terri learns a great deal about music, but has flashbacks of the car crash.

Terri also develops a mutual fondness for British songwriter Jay, but she faces competition from Robin Childers, who was with Jay the previous summer. Robin still harbors feelings for Jay, but he does not reciprocate. Jay tries to get Robin to leave him and Terri alone. On one occasion, Robin kisses Jay just as Terri walks in. Jay pushes Robin away, but Terri runs off in tears, ignoring Jay's insistence that the kiss meant nothing. Later, finding him drunk, Terri and Denise take Jay to the roof to sober up. When he does, Jay apologizes, and Terri agrees to finish the song they have been working on for the scholarship contest.

In the meantime, Simon learns of Terri's ruse and becomes furious. He then drives to Los Angeles to bring Terri home. On the final day, Simon comes to the school and Terri finds him packing up her belongings; he reams Terri for deceiving him, and for turning his sister and wife against him. Terri begs her father not to make same mistake he did with Paul and make her run, and not ruin the summer.

Ultimately, realizing how selfish he had been, he changes his mind. Terri and Jay perform the song they wrote, dedicating it to Paul. Even though Denise wins the scholarship prize, Simon is proud of his daughter and her talents, and is also glad that her last memory of Paul is one worth having (the concert), as opposed to Simon's own (their argument). Terri's teachers hope to see her next year; Simon replies that they just might. Over the end credits, the students perform together, joyously.

####Reckless####
Musical stage star Mona Leslie (Jean Harlow), jailed for reckless driving, is bailed out by her friend, sports promoter and gambler Ned Riley (William Powell), to headline a charity event. However, she finds that all the seats have been bought by wealthy Bob Harrison Jr. (Franchot Tone), president and only member of S.A.M.L. (the Society for the Admiration of Mona Leslie). Mona begins dating Bob, with Ned's approval. Mona's Granny (May Robson) tells Ned that her granddaughter would break it off if he asked her to. Ned is reluctant at first, but eventually buys a wedding ring. However, he is too late.

One night, while they are very drunk, Mona and Bob get married. The next day, Mona is pleased, but Bob becomes depressed when he considers what his upper class friends and family will think, especially his father, Colonel Harrison (Henry Stephenson), and his fiancée and friend since childhood, Jo Mercer (Rosalind Russell). Though Jo welcomes Mona without resentment, the colonel and the rest of Bob's social circle are cold toward her. Bob wants to run back to New York, but Mona advises him to stay and stick it out.

Bob's ambivalent feelings emerge when Jo gets married. He avoids the wedding and starts drinking, unable to endure the thought of Jo with another man. When he shows up and speaks to Jo privately, he tells her how he really feels. Mona overhears when he says he was trapped into marriage. With no place else to go, she asks Ned to take her to his hotel suite. Bob follows and tries to pick a fight, but is too drunk to do anything serious. Ned and Mona put him to bed, but when they leave the room, Bob kills himself. Both Ned and Mona are subjected to a coroner's inquest and suspected of murder, but Bob's death is ruled a suicide. However, in the eyes of the public, Mona is still guilty of driving Bob to his death.

Mona gives birth to Bob's son. She offers to give up her inheritance of one million dollars if Colonel Harrison will agree not to seek custody of her child. He agrees. To support her son, Mona tries to go back to work, but outraged people organize a campaign against her and nobody will hire her other than a sleazy promoter who wants to take advantage of her notoriety. Ned secretly finances a show for her, but his lawyer, worried that Ned is risking bankruptcy, tells Mona. She offers to stop production, but Ned refuses to listen and the show goes on.

On opening night, Jo and Colonel Harrison are in the audience. Mona starts off with a song, but hecklers make it impossible to continue. She quiets the crowd with a forceful justification of her actions and starts over. When she is finished, the audience gives her a standing ovation. During her next song, Ned proposes to her from the sideline.

####Rich, Young and Pretty####
Elizabeth (Jane Powell) accompanies her wealthy Texan rancher father (Wendell Corey) on a visit to Paris, where her mother (Danielle Darrieux) lives. In Paris, she meets Andre (Vic Damone), an eager young Frenchman. The father tries to keep her from marrying the Frenchman and avoid the mistake he made when he married her mother.

####Rio Rita####
Bert Wheeler plays Chick Bean, a New York bootlegger who comes to the Mexican town of San Lucas to get a divorce so he can marry Dolly (Dorothy Lee). After the wedding, Ned Lovett (Robert Woolsey), Chick's lawyer, informs Chick the divorce was invalid, and advises Wheeler to stay away from his bride.

The Wheeler-Woolsey plot is actually a subplot of the film, and the main story features Bebe Daniels (in her first "talkie") as Rita Ferguson, a south-of-the-border beauty pursued by both Texas Ranger Jim Stewart (John Boles) and local warlord General Ravinoff (Georges Renavent). Ranger Jim is pursuing the notorious bandit Kinkajou along the Mexico–United States border, but is reluctant to openly accuse Rita's brother, Roberto (Don Alvarado), as the Kinkajou because he is in love with Rita.

Ravinoff successfully convinces Rita to spurn Ranger Jim on the pretext that Jim will arrest Roberto. Rita unhappily agrees to marry Ravinoff to prevent him from exposing Roberto as the Kinkajou. Meanwhile, Bean's first wife, Katie (Helen Kaiser), shows up to accuse him of bigamy, but conveniently falls in love with Lovett.

At this point, the film switches into Technicolor. During the wedding ceremony aboard Ravinoff's private gambling barge, Ranger Jim cuts the craft's ropes so that it drifts north of the Rio Grande. The Texas Rangers storm the barge, arrest Ravinoff as the real Kinkajou just in time to prevent the wedding, and Roberto is revealed to be a member of the Mexican Secret Service. Jim takes Rita's hand in marriage and Roberto escorts Ravinoff back to Mexico for trial.

<gallery mode="packed" heights="160px">
File:Rio-Rita-1929-LC-1.jpg
File:Rio-Rita-1929-LC-2.jpg
</gallery>

####Road to Bali####
George and Harold, American song-and-dance men performing in Melbourne, Australia, leave in a hurry to avoid various marriage proposals. They end up in Darwin, where they take jobs as deep sea divers for a prince. They are taken by boat to an idyllic island on the way to Bali, Indonesia. They vie for the favors of exotic (and half-Scottish) Princess Lala, a cousin of the Prince. A hazardous dive produces a chest of priceless jewels, which the Prince plans to claim as his own.

After escaping from the Prince and his henchmen, the three are shipwrecked and washed up on another island. Lala is now in love with both of the boys and can't decide which to choose. However, once the natives find them, she learns that in their society, a woman may take multiple husbands, and declares she will marry them both. While the boys are prepared for the ceremony, both thinking the other man lost, plans are changed. She's being unwillingly wed to the already much-married King, while the boys end up married to each other.

Displeased with the arrangement, a volcano god initiates a massive eruption. After fleeing, the three end up on yet another beach where Lala chooses George over Harold. An undaunted Harold conjures up Jane Russell from a basket by playing a flute. Alas, she, too, rejects Harold, which means George walks off with both Lala and Jane. A lonesome Harold is left on the beach, demanding that the film shouldn't finish and asking the audience to stick around to see what's going to happen next.

####Road to Morocco####
The film opens with a sea freighter exploding. While the cause of the explosion remains a mystery, two stowaways, Jeff Peters and Orville 'Turkey' Jackson, are seen floating on wreckage. It is revealed that Orville's smoking habit caused the blast, and the two men joke about cannibalism as they spot land. Upon reaching the beach, Orville reminds Jeff of his promise to Aunt Lucy to take care of him, but Jeff says she died before he could agree to it. Conveniently, a camel appears, and they hitch a ride.

As Jeff and Orville make their way into the city, they are nearly run over by Arabs led by Sheik Mullay Kasim, who has come to propose to Princess Shalmar. Orville is approached by men carrying a mysterious woman in a veiled box, and her hand takes his before they leave. While at a restaurant, Jeff and Orville plan to skip out on the bill, but a man takes Jeff aside and gives him some money. Jeff had sold Orville, and although he is initially angry, he eventually calms down after Jeff promises to buy him back. Two men then throw a hood over Orville and carry him off.

Jeff has a vision of Aunt Lucy, who shames him for selling Orville. He attempts to buy Orville back but discovers that he has been sold once again. Aunt Lucy then advises Jeff to find Orville and suggests that he sing his favorite song. Jeff walks and sings until a note and Orville's locket are thrown from the palace, warning him of danger. Jeff climbs over the palace wall and hears a woman singing. He sneaks in and finds Orville with Princess Shalmar and other beautiful girls.

Jeff storms into the palace but is caught by guards. Orville pretends not to know him, resulting in the princess dismissing everyone except Jeff. Orville then confesses to their engagement, but the princess reveals that she bought him and that her wise man advised her to marry him. The princess invites Jeff to stay, and Orville is waited on by girls, including Mihirmah, who confesses her love for him. Jeff confronts Orville, who then has him thrown out.

Later, Jeff sings and attracts the princess, and they go for a walk. Mihirmah tries to convince Orville to leave with her. Jeff tells the princess that he should be the one marrying her, but Orville threatens him with a sword. The following day, Kasim threatens to kill Orville, but the princess takes him to the wise man, who reveals a prophecy: the first husband will die a violent death within a week of marriage, and the second will have a long and happy life. The princess declares that Orville is the first husband, and Kasim finally understands.

Orville learns of the prophecy and runs off with Mihirmah, convincing Jeff that the princess actually loves him. That night, Aunt Lucy's spirit rebukes Orville. Princess Shalmar refuses to marry Jeff and sends Orville away to prepare for the wedding. Later, the wise man tells the princess and Jeff that he misread the stars and that the prophecy is incorrect. Jeff now understands why Orville wanted to avoid the marriage, and tells him that the princess has changed her mind. Meanwhile, Kasim learns of the news and rallies his men.

Princess Shalmar and Jeff decide to get married in the United States along with Orville and Mihirmah. However, Kasim intervenes and abducts the princess while giving Mihirmah to one of his men. Jeff and Orville attempt to use their 'patty-cake' routine on Kasim, but it fails, and they end up getting captured along with the girls.

Kasim leaves Jeff and Orville stranded in the desert and takes the women with him. While wandering in the desert, they discover an oasis near Kasim's camp. They try to sneak in but are caught. They then witness a clash between two sheiks and take advantage of the chaos to escape with the girls.

Eventually, they board a boat back home. However, things take a dangerous turn when Orville causes an explosion while smoking in the powder room. Fortunately, they all survive by clinging onto a pile of wreckage near New York harbor.

####Road to Rio####
Scat Sweeney (Crosby) and Hot Lips Barton (Hope), are two musicians, who were part of a swing quintet (the other three musicians are played by the Wiere Brothers a popular vaudeville act). Meanwhile Lucia is a glamorous nightclub singer. Scat and Hot Lips join her as her backing music: clarinet and trumpet.

They travel the United States trying to find work and stay away from girls.  After running from state to state, each time running because of a girl, they try their luck in Louisiana.

They stow away on board a Rio-bound ship, after accidentally starting some fires at a circus. They then get mixed up with the distraught Lucia, who first thanks them, then unexpectedly turns them over to the ship's captain. Unbeknownst to both of them, Lucia is being hypnotized by her crooked guardian, Catherine Vail.  Vail plans to marry Lucia to her brother so she can control her and a set of "papers".

After a series of misadventures, including sneaking off the boat, recruiting a few local musicians, and the boys trying to escape with Lucia, only to have Vail hypnotize her again and slap them both, Vail decides to do away with the boys permanently.  She hypnotizes both of them and tries to get them to kill each other in a duel, but it fails.  Scat and Hot Lips finally figure things out and the boys head for the ceremony  to stop the wedding and to help catch the crooks. Upon finding the "papers", which Scat reads, when Hot Lips asks what they are about, Scat tears them up and looks into the camera, saying, "The world must "never" know."

Later on, Scat is dismayed to see that Lucia loves Hot Lips and not him, but upon peeking through a keyhole, he sees Hot Lips hypnotizing her.

Hope's frequent sidekick Jerry Colonna has a cameo as the leader of a cavalry charging to the rescue of Bing and Bob, as the film cuts away to the galloping horses periodically. All is resolved before he can arrive, leading Colonna to point out:

####Road to Singapore####
Josh Mallon (Bing Crosby) and Ace Lannigan (Bob Hope) are best friends and work aboard the same ship. As their ship returns to the US after a long voyage, they see all the other sailors being mistreated by their wives and girlfriends, and the two friends pledge never to get involved with women again. Unfortunately, this vow is tested almost immediately. First, Ace is confronted by the family of a former lover, Cherry, who insist he marry her. Then Josh, who is the son of a rich shipping magnate (Charles Coburn), has to fend off his fiancée, Gloria (Judith Barrett), and his father's wishes that he settle down and take over the family business.
Things get worse when Josh and Ace get caught up fishing and turn up late for a party to celebrate Josh's engagement. Gloria's hostile drunken brother starts a fistfight and a news reporter takes photographs that cause a scandal. Josh and Ace flee to Hawaii and then head for Singapore.

However, the pair only get as far as the island of Kaigoon before their money runs out. They rescue Mima (Dorothy Lamour), a local (but not native) woman, from her abusive dance-partner, Caesar (Anthony Quinn), and she moves into their hut. Soon Mima is running the two men's lives, much to their chagrin. The trio try to make money in several different ways, including trying to sell a spot remover that is so bad it dissolves clothes.

When Josh's father finally locates his wayward son, he and Gloria fly out to bring Josh back to face his responsibilities. The resentful Caesar leads them to where Ace, Josh and Mima are enjoying a local feast. By this point, both Josh and Ace have fallen in love with Mima. She is heartbroken to learn that Gloria is Josh's fiancée.

Ace proposes to Mima, but before she can accept, Josh returns. The two friends almost come to blows over Mima, but then decide that she should choose between them. Mima picks Ace. Josh boards an ocean liner with Gloria and his father.

Meanwhile, Caesar informs the local police that Ace is on the island illegally. Ace is arrested when he cannot produce a passport, but manages to escape. He and Mima flee aboard a ship, but Ace comes to realize that Mima really loves Josh.

When Josh's ship docks at a tropical port, a passenger complains about a terrible spot remover that disintegrated his suit jacket. Josh realizes that Ace and Mima must be on the island. When he finds them, Ace tells his best friend that Mima really loves him.

####Road to Utopia####
A visible narrator introduces the film and explains that he will be interjecting to explain the inexplicable.

Sal and Chester Hooton, an old married couple, are visited by their equally old friend Duke Johnson, and the three reminisce about their previous adventure in the Klondike.

The film flashes back to the turn of the century. Hooton and Johnson are doing a variety act as "Prof Zambini and Ghost-O". Their trick cons people out of money and they run when the hall is raided by the police. They escape and Johnson wants to head for Alaska. Hooton wants to go to New York. They part at the embarkation quay, but Johnson cheats Hooton out of money and when he runs back to challenge him he gets stuck on the ship going to Alaska. They have to work for their passage. While doing housekeeping duties in a cabin, Chester finds a map to a gold mine. McGurk and Sperry enter behind them, but Duke and Chester overpower the thugs and take their place (and their beards) to get off the boat.

Meanwhile in Alaska, Sal van Hoyden goes to see the owner of the Last Chance dance hall, Ace Larson. She has a story of a map of a gold mine stolen by two men: McGurk and Sperry. Instead of going to the police, Larson assures Sal that he will take care of things. He gives her a job performing in his saloon, an act which infuriates Larson's girlfriend, Kate. Larson tells Kate how he really plans to take Sal's gold mine for the two of them and passionately kisses her.

Arriving in Alaska, Chester and Duke find that the entire town is terrified of their personas. They see Sal's singing routine and are both instantly smitten. Sal plays up to both of them in turn: first Chester, then Duke. She invites each to her room at midnight. She doubts they are the real killers, but Ace's lackey, Lebec, reminds her to get the map at all costs.

Chester and Duke argue over who gets to hold the map and decide to tear it in half and each man keep his for safekeeping.

Duke and Chester manage to escape by dog sled; initially pulling the sled themselves with the large dog they found acting as passenger. En route, they meet Santa Claus on his sled going in the opposite direction. They find Sal in the snow. She and Kate have a cabin nearby and all four stay together. She chats up first Chester then Duke to establish where the map is. Duke confesses he is not McGurk.

Sal, now realizing how much she loves Duke, refuses to go along with the plan. But Kate warns her that only Ace can keep them from being killed and the only way to get to him is to give up the map. Sal reluctantly agrees to steal the map while the men sleep, and does so. The two girls leave the next morning with Lebec.

Duke and Chester are confronted by the real McGurk and Sperry and they realize the girls had stolen the map. They still manage to escape and, after a merry chase through the mountains, head back to town. They readopt their McGurk and Sperry personas but are distressed to find the latter are likely to be hanged. They scare off the posse with a stick of dynamite and rescue Sal who is tied in a back room. They leave the lit dynamite in a candlestick just as the real McGurk and Sperry arrive, and they get blown up while the three escape. They escape by dog sled, but the sled overturns.

The ice splits with Duke and Chester each having one leg on each side as the gap widens. Eventually, this leaves Sal and Chester on opposite sides, with Duke on the side of the mob. He throws the map, wishes them well, and turns to face the mob.

The movie flashes back into the present, with aged Duke telling Sal and Chester how he escaped the mob. He is then surprised to hear that Chester and Sal have a son. They call for him, and he bears a striking resemblance to Duke. Chester looks into the camera and says, "We adopted him."

####Road to Zanzibar####
The film starts with con-artist Chuck Reardon singing "You Lucky People, You" as a side-show caller at a circus advertising an act featuring his friend Hubert "Fearless" Frazier. "Fearless" poses as a human cannonball, but quickly substitutes a dummy at the last minute and hides in a secret compartment.  The flaming dummy sets the big tent on fire and the two of them flee to Africa. At a fancy restaurant, they're sent champagne by diamond baron Charles Kimble, who convinces Chuck to spend all their money on the deed to one of Kimble's diamond mines. When they find out Kimble is an eccentric and the deed is worthless, Fearless ends their partnership. Later that evening, Fearless comes back with a fistful of money, claiming to have sold the diamond mine to a Monsieur LeBec for a profit.  LeBec wants Chuck and Fearless to accompany them to see the mine.  Chuck and Fearless manage to escape and jump onto a boat bound for the interior.

Stranded, they are propositioned by Julia Quimby to help rescue her friend Donna LaTour from being sold at a slave auction. Unbeknownst to both of them, Julia and Donna are also con-artists who use the money to buy food. They convince Chuck and Fearless to take them along on safari, not telling them it's to see Donna's wealthy boyfriend. As their journey continues, Chuck and Fearless both vie for Donna's attention.

Eventually, the men learn they've been duped from the beginning and angrily run into the jungle to confront Donna. While she is swimming in the nude, a pair of leopards tear her clothes while she hides in the reeds. Upon seeing her torn clothes, Chuck and Fearless assume she's dead and prepare a funeral. During their attempt at a eulogy, they admit that despite the fact she lied to them, they both loved her. Chuck and Fearless start to sing "It's Always You" and burst into tears, until Donna sings to them and then they both turn on her. They storm off into the jungle and the safari leaves without them.

The men fight their way back to civilization, haggard, dirty and penniless until they sell gold nuggets they had received from the natives. They find the girls and Donna confesses her love for Chuck. The four decide to stay in Zanzibar and start a carnival, which features Julia being sawed in half.

####The Rogue Song####
The story takes place in the Russian Empire in the year 1910. Yegor (Lawrence Tibbett), a dashing (as well as singing) bandit leader meets Princess Vera (Catherine Dale Owen) at a mountain inn. They fall in love, but the relationship is shattered when Yegor kills Vera's brother, Prince Serge, for raping his sister, Nadja, and driving her to suicide. Yegor kidnaps Vera, forcing her to live a life of lowly servitude among the bandits. Vera manages to outwit Yegor, who is captured by soldiers and flogged. Vera begs Yegor's forgiveness. Although still in love with each other, they realize they cannot be together.

####Romance & Cigarettes####
In early 1980s New York, seamstress Kitty Kane learns that her construction worker husband, Nick Murder, has been having an affair after finding a sexually explicit poem he wrote to his mistress. The revelation generates a rift between Kitty and Nick and sends shockwaves both through their family and closely knit suburban neighborhood; as characters contemplate what love, sex, and physical pleasure mean to them, their thoughts are conveyed via elaborate musical numbers representing their deepest fears, anxieties, and fantasies.

Against the backdrop of her parents' deteriorating relationship, their daughter Baby- who plays lead guitar and provides vocals for a local rock band- finds herself embarking on her own romance with Chetty Jr., an attractive but dimwitted neighborhood boy who insists on referring to himself in the third person as "Fryburg." When Baby announces her plans to marry to Kitty, she forbids it, fearful that Baby's life will turn out like her own. Meanwhile, Nick continues to see his mistress, Tula, a much younger Mancunian woman who works in a lingerie shop and who first came onto him after seeing working shirtless at a job site; hoping for a lifelong commitment from Nick, Tula encourages him to get a circumcision, which he eventually does after convincing from his best friend and coworker Angelo, a sexual compulsive who waxes philosophical on the nature of romance and intercourse.

Struggling to recover from Nick's affair, Kitty resumes going to church, where she reconnects with her old parish priest and joins the choir. Wanting to confront Tula but unsure of her identity, she enlists the help of her cousin Bo, a rockabilly fixated, paranoid man who insists that he got away with the murder of his adulterous wife, Delilah, who is in fact still alive and living with her boyfriend. The pair eventually track Tula to the lingerie shop where she works, where she and Kitty get into a violent physical altercation. Shortly thereafter, Nick suffers licorice poisoning following an eating binge. He's rushed to the hospital, where his mother and Angelo confront him about his behavior. Nick's mother tells him that he's following in the footsteps of his similarly unfaithful and repulsive father and grandfather, both of whom engaged in sexually questionable behavior and who are now remembered as nothing more than "whoremongers." Genuinely ashamed and fearing he'll be remembered the same way, Nick breaks off his affair with Tula. He attempts to reconcile with Kitty, who consents to him remaining in the house but who refuses to forgive him for the affair.

Baby breaks up with Fryburg after she realizes he has no ambition in life and would make a poor life partner. Later, Nick gets into a physical altercation with a neighbor who piles snow on their lawn; the younger, fitter neighbor gets the upper hand and brutally beats Nick, almost killing him before Kitty intervenes on his behalf, beginning a tenuous reconciliation. Not long after, Nick is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, the result of years of heavy smoking. Distraught, he goes to Kitty's priest and confesses to the affair and his generally bad behavior. Kitty agrees to care for him while he dies, though she tells him she can never bring herself to have sex with him again. As his condition deteriorates, Nick is hospitalized; one night, Kitty comes to visit him, and Nick composes her a poem expressing his love for her and gratitude for their life together. Not long after, Nick dies, leaving a conflicted Kitty to reconcile her feelings for him while contemplating her own future.

####Rosalie####
Dick Thorpe (Nelson Eddy) is a football star for the Army, and Rosalie (Eleanor Powell), a Vassar student who is also a princess (Princess Rosalie of Romanza) in disguise, watches a football game. They are attracted to each other and agree to meet in her country in Europe. When Dick flies into her country, he is greeted as a hero by the king (Frank Morgan) and finds Rosalie is engaged to marry Prince Paul (Tom Rutherford), who actually is in love with Brenda (Ilona Massey). Dick, not knowing of Prince Paul's affections, leaves the country. The king and his family are forced to leave their troubled country, and Dick and Rosalie are finally reunited at West Point.

####Rose Marie####
Marie de Flor (Jeanette MacDonald) is a Canadian soprano performing in "Roméo et Juliette" in Montreal; the Premier of Quebec is in the audience. Inviting him and his entourage to supper after the performance, she learns from a 'half-breed' man called Boniface (George Regas), that her brother Jack (James Stewart), supposedly in prison for armed robbery, was wounded as he escaped from prison and has killed a Mountie in the process. Making her excuses, she leaves for the Canadian wilderness with Boniface, hoping to help Jack.

At the same time, Sergeant Bruce, of the Mounties (Nelson Eddy) reports to headquarters and receives his latest mission: he must find Jack Flower, believed to be hiding near Lake Chibougam.

Marie and Boniface reach an outpost near Lake Chibougam, where Boniface disappears with Marie's money. Marie falls in with Sergeant Bruce, but Marie cannot tell him the truth for fear of compromising Jack. Marie tries singing at a local cafe to earn some money, but is unused to such boisterous singing and fails to attract any tips.

Bruce insists that Marie report Boniface's theft, but she cannot admit her real identity, calling herself 'Rose'. But Bruce has recognised her via her voice. They travel together to an Indian ceremony that night. Bruce, despite his strong sense of duty, proves to be a womaniser, and they sing together.  Marie finds Boniface and they leave together. But Bruce has discovered that 'Rose Marie de Flor' is really Jack Flower's sister and sets off after her, knowing that she will lead him to Jack.

Boniface and Marie travel on horseback to Hayman's Landing where Jack is hiding. Sergeant Bruce, following her, rescues her from drowning as they cross a deep river and Boniface runs off into the forest.

Marie haughtily refuses the Sergeant's help, but realises that she will not reach John without that help. She and the Sergeant travel together for the next three days, before she leaves him with a new guide.

Marie finds Jack being nursed by Boniface's mother, and tries to persuade him to reform. She gives him the money necessary to escape and start over. But Bruce appears and arrests Jack. Marie begs him to let her brother go, but the Sergeant is unmoved by her plea.

No more is heard of Jack, but Marie, although unwell, returns to opera performance. She has the title role in the opera "Tosca". She keeps imagining that she hears "Indian Love Call" throughout the opera and collapses onstage just before the final curtain. She retires to a mountain lodge and refuses to sing for six months. Her manager, Myerson, visits and tells her how disappointed he is not to hear her voice again. After he leaves, she begins singing "Indian Love Call". Myerson urges Sergeant Bruce, who has been waiting in the foyer, to join her, and they sing together.

####Rose Marie####
Rose Marie Lemaitre, an orphan living in the Canadian wilderness, falls in love with her guardian, Mike Malone, an officer of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. The feeling is mutual But, when she leaves to learns proper etiquette, she meets a trapper named James Duval, who also falls for her.

####Roustabout####
Musician Charlie Rogers is fired from a job at a teahouse after brawling with several college students in the parking lot. After a night in jail, Charlie hits the road on his Honda 305 Superhawk motorcycle. He spots Cathy Lean driving with her father Joe, and their employer, Maggie Morgan. When Charlie tries to become friendly with Cathy, Joe forces him off the road and the bike is wrecked after crashing into a wooden fence.

Maggie offers him a place to stay and a job with her struggling traveling carnival while the bike is being repaired. Charlie becomes a "carnie", a roustabout. Maggie recognizes his musical talents and promotes him to feature attraction. His act soon draws large crowds. Off stage, Charlie romances Cathy, which creates animosity with Joe. After the two men repeatedly clash and Charlie is accused of holding back a customer's lost wallet that Joe was accused of stealing, Charlie leaves to star in the much better financed show of rival carnival producer Harry Carver.

Once again, he is a great success. However, when Charlie learns that Maggie is facing bankruptcy, he returns to her carnival. In the musical finale, he is happily reunited with Cathy.

####Rover Dangerfield####
Rover is a Basset Hound that lives a life of luxury in Las Vegas with his owner Connie, a showgirl. He gambles and flirts with girls with his best friend Eddie. One night, he sees Connie's criminal boyfriend Rocky in a transaction with a pair of gangsters and accidentally disrupts it by dropping a bone into the meeting. Thinking that Rocky is an undercover cop setting them up, the gangsters flee as the big boss tells Rocky that he has blown his last chance as Rocky quotes that it's just a stupid dog outside. He throws the bone towards a fleeing Rover and Eddie.

The next day, Connie goes on tour for two weeks, leaving Rocky to look after Rover. In retaliation for ruining his deal, Rocky stuffs Rover in a bag, drives him to Hoover Dam and throws him into the water.

The bag is later pulled out of the water by two passing fishermen, who take Rover back to shore and place him in the back of their pickup truck. Rover regains consciousness and jumps out of the truck when the fishermen stop for gas, and begins to wander down the road. He ends up in the countryside, and eventually runs into a farmer, Cal, and his son, Danny, who convinces his father to take the dog in. Cal agrees on one condition: at the first sign of trouble, he'll be sent to an animal shelter. If nobody claims him, the animal shelter can put him down.

Rover has difficulty adjusting to life on the farm but with a help of Daisy, a beautiful collie next door, and the other dogs on the farm, he succeeds in earning their trust. Rover spends Christmas with the family, and begins to fall in love with Daisy, who returns his affections.

However, one night, a pack of wolves attempt to kill a turkey on the farm. As Rover attempts to save the turkey, the wolves run off, but the bird ends up dead and Cal mistakenly believes Rover to have been responsible. The next morning, Cal takes Rover into the woods to shoot him, but he hesitates and is attacked by the wolves. Rover manages to chase off the wolves, and rallies the other farm dogs to get the injured Cal home.

Rover's heroics make the papers, allowing Eddie and Connie to find out where he is. Danny informs Rover of his trip back to Las Vegas and he departs the farm. Although initially happy to be reunited with Connie and his friends, Rover soon begins to miss his life on the farm. When Rocky comes into Connie's dressing room, and upon seeing him, Rover initiates revenge. After Rocky accidentally confesses to what he did, Connie angrily punches him in the face and breaks up with him. Infuriated, Rocky tries to retaliate against Connie, but Rover and his dog friends chase him out of the casino, where a gangster beckons him into their limo. At first, Rocky is happy they saved him, but then questions their presence in the first place. The big boss quotes "This is a setup. Wanna see Hoover Dam"? The limo drives off with a horrified Rocky as Rover says his goodbyes to him.

Sometime later, Rover, missing Daisy, becomes depressed. Realizing he has met someone, Connie takes Rover back to the farm to stay and allows Cal and Danny to keep him this time. Rover is reunited with Daisy, who leads him to the barn and reveals to him that he is now a father, unveiling six puppies: Five of them resembles Rover and one resembles Daisy. The story ends with Rover teaching his kids how to play cards and playfully chasing Daisy around the farmyard.

####Royal Wedding####
The story sees brother and sister Tom and Ellen Bowen as stars of a show "Every Night at Seven", a Broadway success. They are persuaded to take the show to London, capitalizing on the imminent royal wedding of Princess Elizabeth and Philip Mountbatten.



On the ship, Ellen meets and quickly falls in love with the impoverished but well-connected Lord John Brindale. Whilst casting the show in London, Tom falls in love with a newly engaged dancer, Anne Ashmond. Tom assists Anne in reconciling her estranged parents and also asks his agent to locate Anne's supposed fiancé in Chicago – only to discover that he's married and therefore Anne is free to do what she likes.

Carried away by the emotion of the wedding, the two couples decide that they will also be married that day. Thanks to the resourcefulness of Tom's London agent, Edgar Klinger, who knows someone in the Archbishop's office who can cut through the official red tape and also has a cooperative minister in his pocket, Anne and Tom, and Ellen and John, are in fact married on the royal wedding day.

####Rumba####
In Havana, Cuba, an American dancer called Joe Martin has a winning lottery ticket. However wealthy socialite Diana Harrison also has a lottery ticket with the same number. Joe's ticket is counterfeit so he misses out on the money. Diana feels sorry for him and offers to back him in his own night club but then changes her mind after he tries to seduce her.

Joe then discovers the rumba dance when he visits his home town during a fiesta. He gets financial backing from a Texan to establish a new nightclub with Flash, his manager. Joe dances the rumba with Carmelita and is a big success.

Diana goes to opening night with her boyfriend Hobart Fletcher. She dances with Joe and they fall in love. However Carmelita helps break them up.

Back in New York Diana discovers that Joe left New York because he had evidence that would send a gang member to prison. Diana breaks up with Hobart. Joe reads about this, signs with a Broadway producer and returns to New York. Joe is threatened with death by gangsters but decides to perform anyway. Carmelita faints out of fear but Diana steps up and performs the rumba with Joe. The performance is a big success and it's revealed that the gangster threats was a publicity stunt.

####Salsa####
In a nightly escape from his day job as a mechanic, Rico (Robby Rosa) enters his true element: the wild exuberance of "La Luna" , a salsa club located in East Los Angeles, California. Dreaming of making himself and Vicky (Angela Alvarado), his girlfriend the "King and Queen of Salsa", Rico pours all his energy into winning La Luna's Grand Salsa Competition. But when Luna (Miranda Garrison), the club's gorgeous owner sets her sights on making Rico her dance partner, Rico must decide what drives him, his ambition or his heart.

####Save the Last Dance 2####
The film continues the story of Sara Johnson (originally played by Julia Stiles and now portrayed by Izabella Miko). She recalls how she was born to be a dancer. Her mother would often comment that she knew how to pirouette before she could properly walk. From her earliest memories Sara always wanted to be a ballerina, a graceful dancer who could glide across the stage. Inspired by her Idol Philomena Kerplunk played by Suze Williams, It seemed that there was something that caused conflict in Sara's ambition. She also loves the urban dance form of hip-hop. While ballet is highly structured, full of rules and standards, hip-hop gives Sara a chance to let go and follow the beat. Sara wants the best of both worlds but the conflict between structure and independence affects her performance in both genres.

The film is set soon after the original. Sara has made the first part of her dream come true. Her audition with the Juilliard School of Dance worked out well and she was accepted, resulting in her moving from Chicago to New York City. Sara would soon find out that as rough as it was to get there, staying would require raising the bar to almost painful heights. Her idol and ballet instructor, Monique Delacroix (Jacqueline Bisset), is old school when it comes to demanding each student master the traditional and arduous curriculum. She has little to no use for the influence of any other form of dance on ballet, so the concept of hip-hop is not only foreign to the staid teacher, it is repugnant.

During orientation on her first day at Juilliard, Sara meets Miles Sultana (Columbus Short), who takes her for a trombone player. When she tells him she is there for ballet, he questions whether she is a ballerina. Sara boldly states that she is already a ballerina; she is there to become a prima ballerina. This sets up a playful antagonism that later develops into a romantic relationship. Sara also has to deal with the students at her new school. In a high pressure school like Juilliard, the more favor you gather with the teachers the more jealousy you encounter from the students. It is a cut-throat environment with an extremely high failure rate.

Among her new classmates is Marcus (Matthew Watling), who infuriates Delacroix the first day for wearing pants that 'swish'. Then there is Katrina (Maria Brooks), who is destined to be the main rival for Sara. It also turns out that Miles is actually her guest lecturer for 'Introduction to Hip-Hop Theory'. Miles invites Sara and her new roommate Zoe to a club, where Sara demonstrates her skills by having a dance off with local dance star and club favorite Candy (Tracey "Tre" Armstrong). Due to her late night partying, she is late for her ballet class and is scolded and punished by Ms Delacroix.

Struggling to stay, Sara tries to save herself from being dismissed by working extremely hard, which makes her decline Miles's request for her to design choreography for an art exhibit he's involved with. In pain and desperation, Sara takes pills offered to her by Katrina to lose weight and relieve the pain in her joints. After vomiting in Delacroix's office and having the pills noted in the bucket, she is assured that she is not being cut and advised not to take them anymore. She continues to work hard and improves daily. She also agrees to help Miles with his project. During a chance meeting with Philiomena Kerplunk (Suze Williams) Philly convinces Sara that she will have the last dance and that she is still as hip as she was in the first movie.

Delacroix properly supports her after Sara demonstrates her talent, causing Katrina to become even more jealous. Katrina gets the lead in "Giselle", but is injured during practice. Sara must now take her part, which is extremely technically demanding. Sara works relentlessly, struggling between her two commitments. Katrina, in a final act of revenge, reveals Sara's relationship with Miles to Delacroix. It is revealed that Delacroix is Miles's mother. She discusses Sara's future with Miles and encourages him to end their relationship so it doesn't interfere with her fulfilling her dreams.

Sara withdraws from her participation in the gallery project and focuses on the ballet performance. During rehearsal, she is confronted by Zoe and Miles's friend Franz (Ian Brennan) about refusing to assist with the gallery project even though Miles is struggling. Zoe angrily accuses Sara of becoming Delacroix. Sara is also informed that the dress rehearsal for the gallery project is on the night of her ballet performance and no one from that group will be able to see her as Giselle. Right before the ballet performance, Zoe comes and apologizes for her behavior and delivers a CD from Miles of him playing piano. She performs her role as Giselle flawlessly, but finds in the end that she feels nothing despite her tremendous success. She declines to attend the afterparty full of industry luminaries and tells Delacroix that she is not willing to sacrifice love, friendship, and happiness for ballet. She leaves and goes to the dress rehearsal, makes up with Miles, and performs the piece she choreographed, finally looking happy.

####Scenes from the Goldmine####
A female songwriter is invited to join a rock band. She's thrilled at first to be near the rock band's handsome leader. They embark upon an affair until she discovers he is stealing her songs.

####The Seat Filler####
Derrick, an aspiring lawyer who is studying for the bar exam, struggles to keep his head above water financially. His best friend and roommate E.J. suggests Derrick join him at his job as a seat filler at awards shows. When seat filling at the Video Beat awards gala, Derrick meets popular R&B singer Jhnelle, who mistakes him for a regular guest. Believing that he is Alonzo Grant, entertainment lawyer to the stars, Jhnelle asks Derrick out on a date.

During the date Derrick tells Jhnelle that he is not Alonzo Grant and that he cannot afford the meal, but she explains she was planning to pay for it anyway and laughs, believing Derrick to be kidding. They leave the restaurant with plans for a second date.

Derrick plans on cancelling the date because he cannot afford it, but E.J. tells him not to worry and that he's got everything covered as long as he takes him along. Derrick, Jhnelle, E.J., and Jhnelle's friend Sandie take a Bentley that E.J. "borrowed" while pretending to be valet and head to a club. Jhnelle's ex-boyfriend Trent is there and causes problems while E.J. tells Derrick that the rightful car owner is also at the club. Derrick, who didn't know about the stolen car, gets upset and walks away from E.J. who chases after Sandie while Jhnelle and Derrick leave the club. Jhnelle asks to take the car home but Derrick suggests taking the bus instead. They get off and walk around town, where Derrick again tries to tell Jhnelle the truth, but she interrupts him with a kiss.

The next day Jhnelle leaves a message on Derrick's phone saying she wants to have lunch and that she'll meet him at "his" office. Derrick panics over what to do and E.J. yells at him to run. He quickly gets dressed and runs to the building where Alonzo works and is just in time to meet Jhnelle there, suggesting they do something "better than lunch" which is a movie at a theater in the hood. Meanwhile, Trent goes to Alonzo's office to confront him.

Trent goes to Jhnelle and begs her to go with him to a TV award show. She agrees, but only as a friend. There they meet Derrick who is seat filling. Trent accuses him of looking awfully good considering Alonzo Grant has been in the hospital for the past two weeks, and asks a worker there what his real name is, who answers Derrick Harver. Jhnelle begins to cry and begs Al to say something, but Derrick replies, "My name is Derrick" and she runs off. Derrick punches Trent and tries to run after her but is stopped by security.

Over the next few days Derrick tries persistently to call Jhnelle but Sandie answers and to Jhnelle's request tells him she's out. Sandie tries to get Jhnelle to talk to him for closure but Jhnelle refuses saying she just wants to work on her album.

With VIP access given to him by Sandie, Derrick tries to meet Jhnelle at a shoot for her music video. He tells her that he's sorry and that what he felt for her was real, but she accuses him of being a liar and explains she can't believe that, then walks away with Derrick calling after her.

Derrick falls into a slump until E.J. tells him to stop acting like him and start acting like himself. Derrick goes on to pass his Bar Exam, get a job and get a nice apartment. While unpacking he turns on the television and sees Jhnelle on screen at an award show. Inspired, he calls up E.J and they go posing as seat fillers. While she's performing, Derrick and the other seat fillers begin to stand up holding white carnations, inspired by a story Jhnelle once told him about her grandparents. He tries to walk up to her but is stopped by security. She tells them to wait and goes to him and the two embrace.

####Serenade####
"Serenade" tells the story of poor vineyard worker Damon Vincenti (Mario Lanza), who becomes an operatic tenor, and is involved with two women &mdash; one a high society hostess, Kendall Hale (Joan Fontaine), the other a Mexican bullfighter's daughter, Juana Montes (Sara Montiel). The tenor has a breakdown because of his unrequited love for the society woman, but finds love (and a happy ending) with the Mexican girl. Highly melodramatic, the film features a great deal of operatic music, all of it sung by Lanza. Of note are the Act III Monologue from Verdi's "Otello" and an extract from the duet "Dio ti giocondi" from the same opera featuring Metropolitan Opera soprano Licia Albanese.

####Shall We Dance####
Peter P. Peters (Fred Astaire) is an amiable American ballet dancer billed as "Petrov", who cultivates a public image of being a serious, demanding and temperamental Russian, though his employer knows the truth.  Peters dances for a ballet company in Paris owned by the bumbling Jeffrey Baird (Edward Everett Horton), and secretly never wants to blend classical ballet with modern jazz dancing because they think it does not look very professional.

When Peters sees a photo of famous tap dancer Linda Keene (Ginger Rogers), he falls in love with her. He contrives to meet her (as "Petrov"), but she is less than impressed. They meet again on an ocean liner traveling back to New York, and Linda warms to Petrov. Their interactions spark a tabloid campaign that they are (or are perhaps not) married. Unknown to them, their associates create a publicity stunt "proving" their  proper marriage. Outraged, Linda becomes engaged to the bumbling Jim Montgomery (William Brisbane), much to the chagrin of both Peters and Arthur Miller (Jerome Cowan), her manager, who secretly launches more fake publicity.

Peters (who by now has revealed his true identity) and Keene, unable to squelch the rumor, decide to actually marry and then immediately get divorced. Linda begins to fall in love with her husband, but then discovers him with another woman, Lady Denise Tarrington (Ketti Gallian), and leaves before he can explain. Later, when she comes to his new show to personally serve him divorce papers, she sees him dancing with dozens of women, all wearing masks with her face on them: Peters has decided that if he cannot dance with Linda, he will dance with images of Linda. Seeing that he truly loves her, she happily joins him onstage.

####She's Working Her Way Through College####
In the early 1950s, Angela Gardner is a burlesque star known as Hot Garters Gertie. She started working as an exotic dancer solely to earn money for a college education. She wants to be a writer, and has been working on a play for many years. She enrolls at Midwest State, where her former high-school teacher John Palmer is now a professor of English. Palmer, aware of Angela's occupation after having seen her perform, encourages her enrollment. Angela mistakenly thinks that Palmer wants to meet her privately after she receives a fur coat, but she discovers that the coat was sent by one of her admirers who tries unsuccessfully to seduce her. Palmer has a longstanding rivalry with former college-football jock Shep Slade, who is fond of Palmer's wife Helen. With the help of fellow student Don Weston, and despite interference from the jealous "Poison Ivy" Williams, Angela succeeds in her studies. Palmer suggests that she turn her play into a musical. When the theatrical arts class votes to stage a musical instead of the usual work by Shakespeare, Angela's play is a natural. After "Poison Ivy" discovers Angela's past and exposes it in the college newspaper, chairman Fred Copeland of the board of trustees demands her expulsion. Palmer is defiant and defends Angela at an open-school assembly. Angela asks Copeland not to expel her and discovers that he is the man who had tried to seduce her. Embarrassed, he accepts her return of the mink coat, which his wife unknowingly wears at the performance of Angela's play.

####Ship Ahoy####
Tallulah Winters is a dancing star who is hired to perform on an ocean liner. Before she leaves, she is recruited by what she believes is a branch of the American government and asked to smuggle a prototype explosive mine out of the country. In fact, she is unknowingly working for Nazi agents who have stolen the mine. Meanwhile, Merton Kibble, a writer of pulp fiction adventure stories but suffering from severe writer's block, is on the same ship and soon he finds himself embroiled in Tallulah's real-life adventure.

####The Shocking Miss Pilgrim####
Cynthia Pilgrim is the top typewriting (i.e. typing) student of the first graduating class of the Packard Business College in New York City, and as such she is offered a position as a typewriter (i.e. typist) with the Pritchard Shipping Company in Boston. There, she finds an office of men overseen by office manager Mr. Saxon. When Cynthia introduces herself to company co-owner John Pritchard, he tells her he thought all expert typists were male and his policy is to hire only men. Cynthia asks for an opportunity to prove she is as efficient as her male counterparts, but John refuses and offers her train fare back to New York.

John's Aunt Alice, an avowed suffragist, has the controlling interest in the company and insists that Cynthia be given a chance. Cynthia finds lodgings at Catherine Dennison's boarding house, where she meets an eclectic group of tenants, including poet Leander Woolsey, artist Michael Michael, and musician Herbert Jothan.

John invites Cynthia to dinner, but she prefers not to socialize with her employer. She does allow him to escort her to one of his aunt's suffragist rallies, where she impresses the other women, despite John's standing up from the audience and asking her awkward questions about management and labor getting closer together. When John's mother asks her to dine with them on the evening of the Regimental Ball, Cynthia feels she would not fit in with the woman's social circle, so her rooming house companions coach her on how to behave unpleasantly, thinking the mother is a snob. Cynthia is delighted to discover their efforts were unnecessary, because Mrs. Pritchard proves to be down-to-earth and a supporter of Cynthia's desire to be treated equally in the workplace.

John begins to date Cynthia, and eventually they become engaged. He tries to persuade her to give up her involvement in the suffrage movement, but she insists she cannot abandon such a worthy cause. They break their engagement and she is fired from her job, but none of the people hired by Mr. Saxon to replace her please Mr. Pritchard. He and John go, in desperation, to a local school to find yet another candidate for the position. There, John discovers that its general manager is Cynthia, and the two are reunited in business as well as in love.

####Show Boat####
The musical's story spans about 40 years, from the late 1880s to the late 1920s. Magnolia Hawks (Irene Dunne) is an 18-year-old on her family's show boat, the "Cotton Blossom", which travels the Mississippi River putting on shows. She meets Gaylord Ravenal (Allan Jones), a charming gambler, falls in love with him, and eventually marries him. Together with their baby daughter, the couple leaves the boat and moves to Chicago, where they live off Gaylord's gambling winnings. After about 10 years, he experiences an especially bad losing streak and leaves Magnolia, out of a sense of guilt that he is ruining her life because of his losses. Magnolia is forced to bring up her young daughter alone. In a parallel plot, Julie LaVerne (Helen Morgan) (the show boat's leading actress, who is part black, but passing as white) is forced to leave the boat because of her background, taking Steve Baker (Donald Cook) (her white husband, to whom, under the state's law, she is illegally married) with her. Julie is eventually also abandoned by her husband, and she becomes an alcoholic. Magnolia becomes a success on the stage in Chicago. Twenty-three years later, Magnolia and Ravenal are reunited at the theater in which Kim, their daughter, is appearing in her first Broadway starring role.

####Silk Stockings####
A brash American film producer, Steve Canfield, wants Russian composer Peter Illyich Boroff to write music for his next picture, which is being made in Paris. However, when the composer expresses his wish to stay in Paris, three comically bumbling operatives, Brankov, Bibinski, and Ivanov, are sent from Moscow to take Boroff back.

Canfield manages to corrupt them with decadent western luxuries (champagne, women, nightclubs, etc.) and talks them into allowing Boroff to stay. He also arranges for his leading lady, Peggy Dayton, to "convince" Boroff to cooperate.

Fearful of his own precarious position, a commissar at the Ministry in Moscow summons a dedicated and humorless, fanatical operative, Nina "Ninotchka" Yoschenko, to bring all four men back home. Canfield succeeds in romancing her, despite her determination not to fall prey to the decadent attractions of Paris. He even proposes marriage. She and Boroff are horrified when they realize what changes have been made to Boroff's music. They decide to return to Moscow.

Canfield does not give up, arranging for the pliable Brankov, Bibinski, and Ivanov to be sent back to Paris, knowing that they will be seduced again by the city's charms. Ninotchka is sent after them, giving Canfield time to convince her to give in to her love for him.

####Small Town Girl####
Rick Belrow Livingston (Farley Granger), on his way to elope with self-obsessed Broadway star Lisa (Ann Miller), is sentenced to 30 days in jail for speeding through a small town. Quite by accident, he meets the daughter of the judge, Cindy Kimbell (Jane Powell). He persuades her to let him out for one night, so that he can visit Lisa on the premise he is seeing his "poor sick mother" (Billie Burke) on her birthday. After spending a night out on the town with him, Cindy starts to fall for Livingston, but Papa Schlemmer (S. Z. Sakall) wants her to marry his son (Bobby Van) whose real ambition is a career on Broadway.

####The Smiling Lieutenant####
In Vienna, Lieutenant Nikolaus "Niki" von Preyn (Maurice Chevalier) meets Franzi (Claudette Colbert), the leader of an all-female-orchestra. They soon fall in love. While standing in formation at a parade honouring the visiting royal family of Flausenthurm, Niki winks at Franzi in the crowd. Unfortunately the gesture is intercepted by Anna, the Princess of Flausenthurm (Miriam Hopkins). The naive princess takes offence; to assuage her, the lieutenant insists that he winked and smiled at her because of her beauty. This backfires; charmed and besotted, Anna demands that she marry the lieutenant, and threatens to marry an American if this plan is thwarted. Franzi leaves Niki upon seeing him return in a royal carriage. After intervention by the Emperor of Austria, an international incident is narrowly averted by the marriage of the lieutenant and the princess, though the marriage is not consummated as Niki will only chastely kiss his bride -- and his father-in-law.

Homesick and lovesick, Niki wanders the streets, and encounters Franzi, who has continued to perform with her orchestra in Flausenthurm since the wedding, unable to move on. The two resume their romance.

Anna finds out and confronts Franzi. During the confrontation, Franzi realizes that the princess is in fact deeply in love with the lieutenant. She decides to save the marriage by giving the dowdy princess a makeover, and they sing the duet "Jazz up your lingerie!" before Franzi departs for good.

The results are a complete success as the lieutenant returns home, follows his satin-clad, cigarette-puffing wife into the bedroom and closes the door – opening it briefly to give the audience a last song and suggestive wink.

####So This Is Africa####
Film studio "Ultimate Pictures" plans on producing an animal picture in Africa. The studio gets the help of animal specialist Mrs. Johnson Martini. There's just one problem: she's afraid of animals. Martini and the studio soon learn of Wilbur and Alexander, a couple of down on their luck vaudevillians with a trained lion act. The duo agree to join Martini on an expedition to Africa. While there, the trio finds themselves captured by a tribe of violent Amazons.

####Song to Song####
In Austin, Texas, Faye is a guitarist looking for success as a musician. She starts an affair with record producer Cook, hoping that he will help her. Then she begins a relationship with BV, who has had slightly more success than she and is also working with Cook. Cook and Faye keep their affair a secret from BV and the three take a trip together to Mexico.

Rhonda is a former kindergarten teacher working as a waitress at a diner, where she is courted by Cook. The two eventually marry and he buys her mother a house. Business gets rough between Cook and BV and their professional relationship and friendship end.

Faye feels increasingly guilty about her affair with Cook, and finally tells BV, who breaks up with her. Faye then has a relationship with Zoey, a French woman living in the US. Rhonda begins to feel uncomfortable with Cook's wild lifestyle, which includes sex with other women and drugs. BV dates New Yorker Amanda for some time, but eventually they break up too.

Rhonda takes her own life, leaving Cook shocked and saddened. Faye and BV reconnect and start dating again. Later, BV moves back west to his hometown to take care of his sick father and the rest of his family, and pursues a simpler life, taking a job as a worker at a drilling rig. Faye follows him and the two of them declare their eternal love for each other.

####The Sound of Music####
Maria is a free-spirited young Austrian woman studying to become a nun at Nonnberg Abbey in Salzburg in 1938. Her youthful enthusiasm and lack of discipline cause some concern. Mother Abbess sends Maria to the villa of retired naval officer Captain Georg von Trapp to be governess to his seven children—Liesl, Friedrich, Louisa, Kurt, Brigitta, Marta, and Gretl. The Captain has been raising his children alone using strict military discipline following the death of his wife. Although the children misbehave at first, Maria responds with kindness and patience, and soon the children come to trust and respect her.

While the Captain is away in Vienna, Maria makes play clothes for the children from drapes that are to be changed. She takes them around Salzburg and the mountains while teaching them how to sing. When the Captain returns to the villa with Baroness Elsa Schraeder, a wealthy socialite, and their mutual friend Max Detweiler, they are greeted by Maria and the children returning from a boat ride on the lake which concludes when their boat overturns. Displeased by his children's clothes and activities and Maria's impassioned appeal that he get closer to his children, the Captain attempts to fire Maria. However, he hears singing coming from inside the house and is astonished to see his children singing for the Baroness. Filled with emotion, the Captain joins his children, singing for the first time in years. The Captain apologizes to Maria and asks her to stay.

Impressed by the children's singing, Max proposes that he enters them in the upcoming Salzburg Festival, but the Captain disapproves of letting his children sing in public. During a grand party at the villa, where guests in formal attire waltz in the ballroom, Maria and the children look on from the garden terrace. When the Captain notices Maria teaching Kurt the traditional "Ländler" folk dance, he steps in and partners Maria in a graceful performance, culminating in a close embrace. Confused about her feelings, Maria blushes and breaks away. Later, the Baroness, who noticed the Captain's attraction to Maria, hides her jealousy by indirectly convincing Maria that she must return to the abbey.

However, Mother Abbess learns that Maria has stayed in seclusion to avoid her feelings for the Captain, so she encourages her to return to the villa to look for her purpose in life. When Maria returns to the villa, she learns about the Captain's engagement to the Baroness and agrees to stay until they find a replacement governess. However, the Baroness learns that the Captain's feelings for Maria haven't changed, so she peacefully calls off the engagement and returns to Vienna while encouraging the Captain to express his feelings for Maria, who marries him.

While the couple is on their honeymoon, Max enters the children into the Salzburg Festival against their father's wishes. Having learned that Austria has been annexed by the Third Reich, the couple return to their home, where Captain receives a telegram, ordering him to report to the German Naval base at Bremerhaven to accept a commission in the Kriegsmarine. Strongly opposed to the Nazis, the Captain tells his family they must leave Austria immediately.

That night, the von Trapp family attempt to flee to Switzerland, but they are stopped by a group of Brownshirts, led by the "Gauleiter" Hans Zeller, waiting outside the villa. To cover his family's tracks, the Captain maintains they are headed to the Salzburg Festival to perform. Zeller insists on escorting them to the festival, after which his men will accompany the Captain to Bremerhaven.

Later that night at the festival, during their final number, the von Trapp family slips away and seeks shelter at the abbey, where Mother Abbess hides them in the cemetery crypt. Zeller and his men soon arrive and search the abbey, but the family is able to escape using the caretaker's car. When they attempt to pursue, they discover their cars will not start, as two of the nuns have sabotaged their engines. The next morning, after driving to the Swiss border, the von Trapp family make their way on foot across the frontier into Switzerland to safety and freedom.

####Soup to Nuts####
Ted Healy is a salesman for the Schmidt Costume Shop who likes to hang out at the fire station where Moe (billed as "Harry Howard"), Larry, and Shemp (along with Fred Sanborn) work. Old man Schmidt spends more time building crazy inventions (typical of devices by writer/cartoonist Rube Goldberg) than tending to his business; as a consequence he is bankrupt and his business is taken over by his creditors, who send a young man named Carlson to manage the business. Carlson immediately falls for Schmidt's niece, Louise, but she resists him.

Meanwhile, a certain General Avocado wants to organize a revolution in San Stevedore and comes to the costume shop to order uniforms; sadly his army flees in fright without paying at the sound of a child bursting a toy balloon. Ted also swings a deal with the Fire Department to supply costumes for the fireman's ball. Carlson wants to take Louise, so Ted hatches a plan to take Louise, and have himself and Carlson dressed alike, then switch places at the ball. When Louise learns of the switch, she runs back to the shop and locks herself in her room. Carlson chases her home, and unknowingly starts a fire while trying to persuade her to come out. The firemen (the Stooges) arrive to extinguish the blaze — with the unexpected help of one of Old Man Schmidt's inventions — and at last Louise and Carlson are a couple.

####Spectacular!####
As the opening credits roll, a band called Flux, apparently with no singer, starts to play at a nightclub. Among the audience is a girl named Courtney Lane (Tammin Sursok). Interspersed with the scenes of the band playing, lead singer Nikko Alexander (Nolan Gerard Funk) calmly walks into the club through the back, barely making his cue for 'Don't Tell Me"'". At the end of the song, he kicks over one of the amps, destroying it for effect. After the performance, the other members of "Flux", upset by his carelessness, kick him out of the band; Nikko's girlfriend Amy (Britt Irvin), who is also in the band, dumps him. After the band members leave, Courtney frantically attempts to recruit Nikko into a show choir named Spectacular!"," of which she is leader. Though Nikko is skeptical and condescendingly rejects her offer, Courtney begs him to come to a carnival to see the choir perform and then make his decision.

The next day at the carnival, Nikko arrives in time to see the "Spectacular!" show choir perform 'Eye of the Tiger"'". Afterward, the ever-anxious Courtney once again attempts to persuade Nikko, who is less than impressed by the group's performance and style, to join the show choir and help them win a national contest, even offering him half the group's earnings from the contest in exchange for his consent. Nikko declines to join the group, stating that he isn't interested in choir. Soon, another show choir named "Ta-da" performs 'Things We Do for Love"'". The lead singers are Royce (Simon Curtis), who used to be the lead singer for "Spectacular!" but quit after breaking up with Courtney, and Tammi (Victoria Justice), Royce's new girlfriend who is a snobby and selfish girl. It is hinted she was a member of "Spectacular!" because of the number of times Courtney calls her a backstabber and that the letter I in her name stand for the "ice in her veins". Later on, Nikko meets with and performs for a famous music producer named Mr. Dickenson (Matthew Bennett), who informs him that he has a shot at getting a record deal if he can raise enough money for equipment for his demo, which has to be excellent. Nikko recalls Courtney's offer of half the earnings from the contest "Spectacular!" plans to perform in, and decides to join the choir in order to get the money to pay for his demo. When he approaches the choir Courtney remembers his mockery of their carnival performance and initially refuses to let him join, but acquiesces after Nikko demonstrates his talent by performing 'Break My Heart"'" in front of the whole group, who are impressed by his vocals. When they are practicing, however, Nikko finds out that dancing for show choir is not as easy as it looks and cannot easily pick up the dance routines. Nikko, who lives with his older brother Stavros (Christopher Jacot), does not inform his brother that he has joined show choir or that he is attempting to get a record deal because he knows Stavros would not approve.

Several days later the group, dressed in hideous cowboy costumes, goes to perform at the club Nikko and his old band, "Flux", had performed at in the beginning of the movie. There Nikko runs into his old band members, leading to an awkward confrontation and a lot of mockery from "Flux". Meanwhile, "Ta-da", who are also at the club, performs their song 'Lonely Love Song"'". Nikko discovers from the other "Spectacular!" members that Royce is Courtney's ex-boyfriend. Upon witnessing "Ta-da's" good performance and the snobby attitudes of Tammi and Royce, Nikko becomes determined to help "Spectacular!" win the upcoming competition and begins to think that the group should come up with new dance moves and new music. One day, before Courtney arrives for choir practice, Nikko encourages the other choir members to try things a different way, and performs 'Your Own Way"'", persuading the others to join in, Nikko sang the beginning of the song, and ask the others to show some talents, Tajid (Avan Jogia) started beatboxing, then other members Janet (Shannon Chan-Kent), Caspian (Joel Ballard) and Robin (Andrea Lewis) showcase their singing talent. Though they are initially reluctant to go against Courtney's wishes, the rest of the group eventually agree that they need a new routine in order to win the competition. They later meet up at Nikko's house, unbeknown to Courtney, and Nikko begins to teach them new dance moves, stating that if they perform the song in front of Courtney she would be impressed and may agree to change the group's style. The choir assembles at Nikko's house every night to practice while still attending practices with Courtney every afternoon.

Nikko learns of "Spectacular!"'s tradition of gathering for a bowling night the week before a competition. Only four members, Nikko, Courtney, Caspian and Janet, show up at the bowling alley, where they discover that Tammi and Royce are already bowling in their lane. After a brief confrontation between the two groups, Nikko persuades the others to perform a song using "Rock The World," a spoof of the real-life video game Rock Band. Random selection chooses a song called 'For the First Time"'", which was Courtney and Royce's old duet. She and Nikko sing it, much to Royce's jealousy, and Nikko and Courtney are becoming attracted to each other. Nikko invites Courtney over to his house for a surprise, and when they get there the whole group has assembled on Nikko's rooftop, where they all perform 'Your Own Way"'" for Courtney. Courtney, instead of being impressed, is upset, accusing Nikko to have betrayed her by practicing another routine behind her back, and then leaves.

Later that night, Nikko goes to Courtney's house to apologize and almost has a fistfight with Royce, who has come to ask Courtney to get back together with him. Courtney rejects Royce, who tauntingly tells Nikko that "Ta-Da" will beat "Spectacular!" at the competition in the "weirdest trash talk that [Nikko's] ever heard." After Royce leaves, Nikko apologizes to Courtney for taking control of the group behind her back and offers to do things her way, but Courtney admits that the group needs a change. Courtney's mother tells Nikko that he can bring some good and change to the "Spectacular!" group and that Courtney will know how far they are actually able to push the envelope to win. The two of them decide to combine their talents and perform a song that everyone can agree upon, and Mr. Romano (Greg Germann), their music teacher, suggests a song called 'Something to Believe In"'". "Spectacular!" begins intense rehearsals and all seems well ('Just Freak"'"), until Mr. Dickinson pays Nikko and Stavros a visit and informs them that his boss is offering Nikko and "Flux" a record deal after an audition and will only be available on Saturday night. Knowing that "Spectacular!" is scheduled to perform at the concert on Saturday night, Nikko is torn between his commitment to the choir and his one shot at getting a record deal. He tries to inform Courtney of his decision to audition for the record deal, but cannot bring himself to do it. Meanwhile, Amy informs Stavros that Nikko has joined choir and Stavros confronts Nikko in front of the members of "Spectacular!", insisting that Niko drop out of choir and audition for the record deal instead. The other members of "Spectacular!" are upset at Nikko for bailing on them at the last minute, and Courtney feels that Nikko has betrayed her again.

Mr. Romano visits Nikko, who is having a tough time deciding what to do, at his house and reveals that he was once in a famous band as Joey Rome that could have been more successful if he hadn't flopped and broke his contract due to his fear of taking risks. Before leaving to go audition for the record deal, Courtney shows up. Nikko fears that she is mad at him for turning his back on "Spectacular!" but instead she kisses him on the cheek and wishes him luck. On concert night, "Ta-Da" performs 'On The Wings Of A Dream"'" and earns much applause and acclaim from the audience. Meanwhile, Nikko and "Flux" perform at their audition for the record deal, but Nikko's heart is not in it and the producers notice and tell him they are not interested; Stavros says that Nikko is just warming up, and that he is better than what he is giving out. Nikko begs them to let him show where his "heart is." When it is "Spectacular!"s turn to sing 'Something to Believe In"'" at the national competition, Nikko, much to Courtney's surprise and delight, arrives onstage right before the chorus, belting out a long note. "Flux" joins him, playing background music, and Mr. Romano reprises his dream as a rock star by playing a guitar during the song.  Nikko and Courtney reconcile, and the group earns a standing ovation.

"Ta-Da" is announced as the winner of the contest and "Spectacular!" is disqualified because "Flux" were unregistered members of the act. Tammi reveals to Royce that she had only used him to win the contest and breaks up with him. Even though "Spectacular!" lost the contest, Nikko's amazing performance got him the record deal. After everyone leaves, Nikko and Courtney share a kiss. It ends with "Spectacular!", "Flux", and Mr. Romano in a studio together recording a song, suitably named 'Everything Can Change"'", with Nikko and Courtney as the lead singers in the song.

####Spring Parade####
Based on a story by Ernst Marischka, the film is about a Hungarian woman who attends a Viennese fair and buys a card from a gypsy fortune teller which says she will meet someone important and is destined for a happy marriage. Soon after the woman gets a job as a baker's assistant and meets a handsome army drummer who dreams of becoming a famous composer and conductor, but is held back by the military which discourages original music. Wanting to help the army drummer, the woman sends one of his waltzes to the Austrian Emperor with his weekly order of pastries, which leads to the tuneful and joyous fulfillment of the gypsy's prediction.

####A Star Is Born####
John Norman Howard, a famous and self-destructive singer/songwriter rock star, arrives late for a concert. He is drunk, sings a couple of songs, and walks off stage. John's driver takes him to a bar where Esther Hoffman is singing. One of John's fans finds him there and starts a fight. Esther grabs John and helps him escape out a back door.

They go to Esther's, but she invites him to come back for breakfast. Over breakfast (pepperoni pizza), she agrees to go to a concert with him. After arriving by helicopter, John rides a motorbike around the stage, snags a cable and crashes off the front of the stage. John is taken away by ambulance and his entourage leave in the helicopter; forgetting Esther.

Afterwards, John is resting at home by his pool. A radio DJ, Bebe Jesus, hovers over the pool in a helicopter and invites John to his studio. John gets angry and shoots at the helicopter. Bebe Jesus then threatens to never play John's songs. Later, John goes to the radio station with a case of whiskey to make peace with Bebe Jesus. The disc jockey does not accept John's apology and calls John an alcoholic over the air. Esther happens to be at the radio station at the same time, taping a commercial. John takes Esther to his mansion and writes her name on the wall with a can of spray paint. There, they make love, have a bubble bath together, and he listens to her playing his piano. She thinks no one would be able to sing to the tune she has written, but he makes up some lyrics and starts singing.

At his next concert, John gets Esther on stage to sing. Although the audience boos when she starts to sing, she wins them over. Later, she tells John she wants them to get married. John replies that he's no good for her, but she persists, and they marry.  John takes Esther to a plot of land he has out west where they build a simple house. She wants a tour co-starring with him, but he thinks she should do the tour on her own. Esther's career takes off, eclipsing his.

John returns to the studio thinking of restarting his career. He's told by Bobbie that the band has gone on without him and have renamed themselves. To save face, John asks Bobbie to tell them that he's found some new artists to work with and wishes them luck.

At home alone, John begins to write a new song. As he sings, he is constantly interrupted by the telephone. Someone asks for Esther and wants to know whether he is her secretary. When Esther returns home, she wants to find out how it went with the band and John tells her it didn't work out. He changes the subject to find out about Esther's day and goes through the messages he's taken for her, one of which is that she's up for a Grammy Award.

At the Grammy Awards, Esther wins for best female performance. While she is giving her acceptance speech, John arrives late and drunk and makes a scene. Later, Esther tries to talk Brian into giving John a last chance. John is writing songs again but in a different way. Brian calls on John and likes the new songs, but suggests John release some of his old hits along with the new songs. However, John wants to go with the new work only, so he turns down the offer.

Back at his LA mansion, John finds Quentin, a magazine writer, swimming half-naked in his swimming pool. She says she would do anything to get an exclusive interview.  Initially he thinks it's with him, but she confirms it's an interview with Esther that she wants. When Esther arrives soon after, she finds them in bed together. Quentin tries to interview Esther, but John tells Quentin to get out.  Esther and John fight with another, him telling her “I love you” and she “I hate you”, until Esther confesses that she does love him.  They return to their small home out west, where they have been happiest.

One day, John wakes early and tells Esther he's going to pick up Brian from the airport. Esther asks him to hurry back. John leaves the house with a beer in hand and drives off in his flashy sports car. He leaves playing his track “Watch Closely Now” but gets bored and puts on one of Esther's songs. He continues to drink his beer, while driving too fast and recklessly.

In the next scene, a police dispatch is discussing an accident.  The shell of a red sports car is on its side. A helicopter lands at the scene and Esther and Brian run out towards John, whose dead body is covered by a blanket. Esther asks for another blanket and cleans his face. She lies down on John and while crying she asks him what is she supposed to do without him. He is taken away in an ambulance.

Back at the LA mansion, Esther hears John's voice calling out for someone to answer the telephone. But she discovers it's just a tape of the old songwriting session during which the telephone had interrupted his singing. She cries on the step in the now empty house, saying that he was a liar and he wasn't supposed to leave her.

The final scene is what seems to be a memorial concert for John. Esther walks out and is introduced as Esther Hoffman-Howard. The audience raises candles as a tribute to her late husband. She sings the song John wrote for her “With One More Look at You” and then ends with his famous track, “Watch Closely Now”, done in her own style. At the last beat of the song, Esther spreads her arms wide and looks up to the heavens.

####A Star Is Born####
43-year-old Jackson "Jack" Maine, a famous country rock singer privately battling an alcohol and drug addiction, plays a concert. His primary support is Bobby, his manager and older half-brother. After a show, Jack goes out for drinks and visits a drag bar where he witnesses a tribute performance to Édith Piaf by 31-year-old Ally, who works as a waitress and singer-songwriter. Jack is amazed by her performance, and they spend the night talking to each other, where Ally discusses her unsuccessful efforts in pursuing a professional music career. Ally shares with Jack some lyrics she has been working on, and he tells her she is a talented songwriter and should perform her material.

Jack invites Ally to his next show. Despite her initial refusal, she attends and, with Jack's encouragement, sings "Shallow" on stage with him. Jack invites Ally to go on tour with him, and they form a romantic relationship. In Arizona, Ally and Jack visit the ranch where Jack grew up and where his father is buried, only to find that Bobby had sold the land, which was converted into a wind farm. Angered at his betrayal, Jack attacks Bobby, who subsequently quits as his manager. Before doing so, Bobby reveals that he did inform Jack about the sale, but Jack was too drunk to notice.

While on tour, Ally meets Rez, a record producer who offers her a contract. Although visibly bothered, Jack still supports her decision. Rez refocuses Ally away from country music and towards pop music. Jack misses one of Ally's performances after he passes out drunk in public; he recovers at the home of his best friend George "Noodles" Stone and later makes up with Ally. There he proposes to Ally with an impromptu ring made from a loop of a guitar string, and they are married that same day at a church ministered by a relative of Noodles.

During Ally's performance on "Saturday Night Live", Bobby reconciles with Jack. Later, Ally and a drunken Jack fight over Ally's growing artistic success. Jack criticizes Ally's new image and music, as her success appears to be outpacing his recent decline in popularity. At the Grammy Awards, where Ally is nominated for three awards, a visibly intoxicated Jack performs a tribute to Roy Orbison. Later in the evening, Ally wins the Best New Artist award. When she goes up on stage to receive her award, a still-inebriated Jack staggers up to her, where he publicly wets himself and passes out. Ally's father, Lorenzo, berates a semi-conscious Jack while Ally attempts to help Jack sober up. Jack joins a rehabilitation program shortly thereafter. While recovering in rehab for about two months, Jack discloses to his counselor that he tried to commit suicide at age 12. He also mentions that he has hearing problems due to progressively worsening tinnitus.

Jack tearfully apologizes to Ally for his behavior. While returning home, Jack admits to Bobby that it was he whom he idolized and not their father. Ally asks Rez to bring Jack on her European tour, but Rez refuses, prompting Ally to cancel the remainder of the tour, so she can care for Jack. Later, while waiting at their home for Ally, Rez confronts Jack and accuses him of nearly ruining Ally's career, stating that Jack will certainly relapse again, and explains how “embarrassing” it is that he’s married to her. That evening, Ally lies to Jack and tells him that her record label has canceled her tour, so she can focus on her second album. Jack promises he will come to her concert that night, but after Ally leaves, he hangs himself in their garage. Grief-stricken and inconsolable after Jack's suicide, Ally is visited by Bobby, who tells her that the suicide was Jack's fault and not hers. The closing scenes reveal a flashback of Jack working on a song about his love for Ally, which he never finished writing. Ally sings this song as a tribute to Jack, introducing herself for the first time as Ally Maine.

####Starstruck####
Kalamazoo, Michigan teenager Jessica Olson is annoyed by her older sister Sara's obsession with teen pop idol Christopher Wilde, and is unhappy to have her spring break used visiting her widowed grandmother in Hollywood, California. She is even more disgusted by Sara's plans to drag her along to stalk Christopher. Meanwhile, behind the scenes of celebrity, Christopher has earned a reputation as a "spoiled punk" who often scuffles with paparazzi. He is on the brink of landing a movie deal, despite the director's reluctance to give him the role due to his reputation and celebrity. In order to prove that he is serious about landing the role, Christopher agrees to remain out of the tabloids for a while.

Sara convinces Jessica to sneak out with her to crash the birthday party of Christopher's girlfriend, famous model Alexis Bender, where Christopher is scheduled to perform. Christopher sneaks in and out of the party to avoid being caught, and hits Jessica with the exit door while she searches for Sara in the crowd. He takes Jessica to a hospital to make sure she hasn't suffered a concussion, then brings her to his Beverly Hills mansion so that he can make an appearance for the film director before taking her home. Jessica allows Christopher to stay in her grandmother's garage for the night when he learns the paparazzi have followed him. The next day, Sara brings Jessica to Malibu in the hopes of finding Christopher there. Jessica recognizes a disguised Christopher on the beach and approaches him, but the two are forced to make a quick exit from the beach when the paparazzi arrive; once they get away, Christopher shows Jessica around Los Angeles.

While attempting to return to Malibu, they are again spotted by the paparazzi, but manage to elude them by driving off the main road, losing Jessica's grandmother's car in a mud pool quicksand in the process. While walking back to Malibu, they get into a heated argument after Jessica calls Christopher out on his superficiality. Eventually, Christopher confides that he enjoyed hanging out with Jessica because she appreciated him for who he was as a person rather than his fame. They eventually return to the beach, where they almost kiss until Christopher realizes he could be recognized and panics. He tells Jessica that they can never speak to each other again, and that no one can know what happened between them that day. Heartbroken and angry, Jessica returns home to Kalamazoo with her family. Alexis finds out about Jessica and breaks up with Christopher.

Christopher later finds out that paparazzi have documented his and Jessica's relationship, and is persuaded by his managers to lie and say she was just a fan. Meanwhile, as Jessica is flocked by paparazzi at her house in Kalamazoo, she watches him tell a talk show host that he has never met Jessica. Angry at the way the media has forced Christopher to suppress his real self, she confronts the paparazzi and reprimands them for their dehumanization and objectification of celebrities. Jessica then becomes notorious for supposedly "lying" about having met Christopher. Christopher's best friend, Stubby, encourages Christopher to make his own choices. Christopher then turns down the movie role and fires his parents as his managers.

Later, Sara takes Jessica to a school dance with her. Christopher makes an appearance at the dance and apologizes to Jessica on stage as well as singing a song he had written for her. When the paparazzi appear at the dance, he confesses that he was the one who lied, and admits his feelings for Jessica. She forgives him and the two agree to go out on a proper date.

####Staying Alive####
Anthony "Tony" Manero, a former disco king, acts on his brother's advice and his own dreams of dancing professionally. He is now living in a Manhattan flophouse (dosshouse), working as a dance instructor and waiter at a dance club, searching for a big break in the modern dance productions on Broadway. The break from his Brooklyn life, family, and friends seem to have somewhat matured Tony and refined his personality, including his diminished Brooklyn accent, an avoidance of alcohol, and less use of profanity. Other attitudes remain unchanged, such as his disregard for his girlfriend, the forgiving Jackie, who is a dancer and rock singer. Still acting immature, Tony maintains some of his other macho and childish double standards, such as seeing other women but being offended if he sees Jackie with other men.

Tony watches a show, which features Jackie as a dancer in the chorus, but focuses on the lead, a seemingly wealthy English dancer, Laura. Tony pursues her with seduction in mind, and spends the night with her. He is annoyed when she dismisses him afterward, not understanding that she intended their encounter to be a one-night stand. Laura coldly justifies her treatment of him by saying that "Everybody uses everybody", and implies that Tony used her in order to get a dance role in her upcoming show.

Unable to trust Tony, Jackie breaks up with him. Jackie, Tony and Laura then all audition for the Broadway production, "Satan's Alley". Jackie and Tony land small roles, and Laura is cast as the lead female dancer.

Tony begins to realize how callous he has been to Jackie, and walks all the way from Manhattan to his old Bay Ridge neighborhood in Brooklyn in the middle of the night. He takes stock of how much his life has changed since he left Brooklyn when walks past 2001 Odyssey, which was his hangout six years before, and is now a gay nightclub. When Tony goes to visit his mother, and apologizes for his selfishness and the troublemaking ways of his youth, she points out that his selfish behavior as a teen was what helped him escape a dead-end life in Bay Ridge. Tony feels better after this and heads back to Manhattan to repair his relationship with Jackie. His hostility and distance from the arrogant Laura increase as the production progresses.

Tony decides to take a shot at replacing the male lead of "Satan's Alley", and requests Jackie to help him practice the number. Laura is disgusted when Tony succeeds and openly displays her resentment at having to partner him in the show. They cannot hide their chemistry on stage despite her animosity, which pleases the show's director Jesse.

"Satan's Alley" sells out, and the cast takes the stage to a standing-room-only crowd. The first act is a success despite Tony's brash disregard for the script when he kisses Laura at the end of their number. Laura furiously retaliates by clawing Tony's face. Jesse blasts Tony backstage, telling him to take his personal war away from the production. Laura seems to offer a truce when she asks to see him after the show to "clear things up". Now fully aware of her manipulative ways, Tony coldly tells her that he has other commitments, and Laura snidely responds that he lacks star quality.

The second act is a dazzling display of dance and special effects, and Tony suddenly abandons the script near the end of the show. He hurls Laura away and gives way to his frustration in a solo dance. He finishes and holds out his hand to Laura with a command to jump. She halts amid Jackie's and Jesse's commands, but finally leaps in his arms for a climactic finish to the show. The thrilled audience gives a standing ovation.

Tony celebrates with his jubilant castmates and reconciles with Jackie. He says that what he really must do is "strut" in celebration. He leaves the theater and struts through Times Square, beaming with his newfound success.

####Step Up####
Brothers Mac (Radcliff) and Skinny Carter and their best friend Tyler Gage (Tatum) attend a party where they have a fight with their nemesis, PJ. P.J. is involved in car thefts around the city, and Tyler, Mac, and Skinny, have also gotten involved in the crimes. Following the party, the trio break into the Maryland School of Arts and trash the theatre. When a security guard appears, Tyler helps the two escape, accepting full blame for the vandalism himself.

Tyler is sentenced to 200 hours of community service at the school. He works as a custodian, doing everything from mopping to changing light bulbs. While putting in his hours, he watches Nora Clark's (Dewan) dance class preparing for her "senior showcase", an audition performance which will determine if she gets a position with an attending professional dance company.

When Mac and Skinny visit Tyler on the school's lot, Nora watches from a window as Tyler dances with his friends, mockingly a mashup of breakdance and the moves he recently observed. When Andrew, her dance partner sprains an ankle, she finds herself without a partner for her routine.

Auditioning sophomores to replace him, none meet her expectations. Tyler offers to help, but Nora initially refuses. After proving he can handle the routine, she reconsiders, convincing Director Gordon to let him rehearse with her. Initially they clash, but as rehearsals continue they grow closer and learn from each other. Tyler also befriends Miles (Mario), a music student with a crush on Nora's friend, Lucy (Sidora).

Nora's bond with Tyler grows, and one day she takes him to a special spot on the waterfront where she first envisioned her routine. She had always imagined it as an ensemble dance, rather than a duet. Tyler is inspired to help her dream come true, recruiting younger dancers from the school to perform in her number. Brett signs a recording deal with a company, betraying Miles for the opportunity. Disgusted, Nora breaks up with him. Meanwhile, Tyler continues to try to balance his new goals, new friends, and nurturing a troubled relationship with his old ones.

Tyler asks Director Gordon if she will admit him into the school, and is told he must prove he deserves a chance. Nora suggests using the showcase also as his entrance audition. After dancing together at a club where Miles and Lucy perform, Tyler and Nora finally kiss. Rehearsals continue until Andrew returns, seemingly healed from his injury. Feeling angry and no longer needed, Tyler accuses Nora of using him like Brett treated Miles. Leaving the group he returns to his janitorial work.

However, as the choreography is now much too difficult for Andrew, he falls, pulling himself from the routine. Again without a partner, crushed, she considers abandoning her dance career for college after all. Her mother's encouragement inspires her to rewrite the choreography without a partner.

Later during a party night at Omar's, Skinny comes by against his mother's insistence he stay at home and gets kicked out by Mac and Tyler. Frustrated, Skinny walks back home in a huff before spotting PJ arriving at a store with his friend. Skinny steals PJ's unattended car and foolishly drives back to Omar's, wanting to hang out with the girls. Mac and Tyler are trying to get Skinny to abandon the car when PJ and his friends arrive and fatally shoot Skinny. A few days after Skinny's funeral, Mac and Tyler both realize that they need to make better life decisions.

Tyler shows up at the last minute on the evening of the showcase. He tries to persuade Nora to let him perform with them, and to forgive him. Initially declining, she suddenly changes her mind as Tyler wishes her luck and walks away. When the curtain opens, the whole ensemble performs the original choreography with Miles' latest musical score. The crowd is blown away.

Backstage, a proud Director Gordon introduces Nora to a director of a professional dance company, hoping to sign Nora. Meanwhile, Mac congratulates Tyler for his performance. Thereafter, Director Gordon introduces Tyler as a "transfer." Nora is elated and embraces him. Repeating her original advice that he'll need to get some tights, the movie ends with them sharing a kiss.

####Step Up 2: The Streets####
In Baltimore, Maryland, Andie West pursues her dream of becoming a street dancer, but feels like she does not belong anywhere. Her mother recently died of cancer, so she now lives with a guardian, her mother's best friend Sarah. She is doing poorly at school, but her passion for dancing brings something good into her life. She rehearses regularly with her "crew", the 410, to retain top ranking in the illegal competition "The Streets".

Andie's friend and older brother figure Tyler Gage persuades her to audition for the Maryland School of the Arts, hoping it will help turn her life around the same way it did him in the first film. Andie auditions and Chase Collins convinces his older brother Blake, the school's director, to let her join. When the 410 find out about Andie's studies, they angrily kick her out. Andie and Chase form a new crew with help from many people Chase knows at the school who are not accepted as who they are. Chase has a copied key to the studio and the crew secretly practices their routine late at night when the school is empty. Missy, Andie's friend, joins the crew after dropping out of the 410 following Andie's removal. Missy tells the crew that the only way to enter the streets is to first do a prank and post it on the internet to show that the crew is entering the competition. Wanting revenge from being humiliated before, Chase decides to make a fool out of Tuck, leader of the 410, by leaving a dead fish in the vent of Tuck's home.

But the 410 doesn't like the fact that they had a new crew to compete with so they warn Andie's new crew to stay out of the Streets or there will be consequences. When Tuck finds Chase, he assaults him because of his prank. Chase comes into school the next day badly bruised and hurt. On top of that the dance studio has been trashed by the 410 late at night. Director Collins forbids the school from being involved in these types of competitions and expels Andie from MSA because of her involvement with the Streets competition; Andie proclaims herself the sole participant to protect her teammates. Chase attempts to defend her, but Director Collins is too busy with an upcoming MSA fundraiser to let her back in.

When Andie's guardian hears the news of Andie's expulsion, she becomes fed up with Andie's behavior and decides to send her to live with her aunt in Texas. Later that night, Andie receives a text message that the Streets is on that night, the same night as the MSA fundraiser. Along with Andie, her whole crew gets the text message. They decide to ditch the MSA fundraiser, and instead compete at the Streets. Andie's guardian hears about what Andie did to protect her crew and is proud of her; she reconsiders sending Andie to Texas and allows her to compete at the Streets with her crew.

When Director Collins goes in search of his students, he ends up at the Streets as well. He sees them compete and realizes that the street dancing he has been opposing is in fact a legitimate form of artistic expression. He accepts Andie back into MSA. With Andie's crew as a group of friends supporting her and her education now being secured, the film finds its optimistic ending.

####Step Up Revolution####
In Miami, Florida, a flash mob, later identified as "The Mob", shuts down Ocean Drive briefly by cutting off the streets with retro convertibles and dancing on cars to music blasted by DJ Penelope (Cleopatra Coleman).

A few hours later, Sean Asa (Ryan Guzman), Eddy (Misha Gabriel), and Jason Hardlerson (Stephen "tWitch" Boss), the leaders of The Mob, watch their latest flashmob air on the television news in a restaurant kitchen of the Dimont Hotel where they work as waiters. A few complain about their public disturbance, while others praise it. After they get off work, the group sneak into the hotel's beach club, claiming to be guests, not employees.

Meanwhile, across the club at the bar, Emily Anderson (Kathryn McCormick) tries to get a bartender's attention, but ends up preparing her own beer. Sean, who is immediately smitten by her, asks for a beer with Emily telling him it's on the house, then heads down to the beach to dance, resulting in a dance battle between the two, but ending with Emily suddenly running off when she sees one of her dad's business partners, Trip.

The next day, Emily and her father William "Bill" Anderson (Peter Gallagher) argue over breakfast at the Dimont Hotel. Sean, their waiter, immediately recognizes her, but Emily accidentally spills orange juice. Sean helps clean it up then leaves to fetch her another juice.

While he's gone, Emily continues to argue with her father before storming off. Sean later finds her in the hotel's ballroom, where Emily begins a fast contemporary dance, oblivious to Sean's presence. After Emily notices Sean and warms up to him, she explains to him that she's trying to nail an audition for the prestigious Winwood Dance Academy Company. Sean advises her to incorporate faster, more interesting moves, but Emily declines, saying that there are rules. Sean, in turn, tells her to break the rules, giving her an address and telling her to come there. Emily does and finds herself at the Miami Museum of Fine Arts, where the paintings and statues come to life, which is the work of The Mob. By telling her to attend, Sean basically reveals to her his participation in The Mob.

The next day, Emily persuades Sean to let her take part in their next flash mob, which is scheduled to hit a restaurant the following week. Eddy immediately dislikes Emily, giving her the lead to test her. Sean then introduces her to "the gang" where she meets Eddy (The Hacker), Penelope (The DJ), Jason Hardlerson (The FX), and Mercury (The Artist), who never talks. Sean also explains that they are trying to win a contest through YouTube by getting 10 million hits on the site.

The flash mob goes well and Eddy admits that Emily did great. The two then celebrate at Ricky's, where Sean and Emily salsa together, much to everyone's delight. Sean and Emily then sneak onto a boat and sail down the river. There, they bond over their mothers both not being a part of their lives, and they kiss and sleep on the boat until morning.

When they hurry back to Ricky's, which turns out to be owned by Sean's uncle Ricky, Ricky reveals to them that Emily's dad, a building tycoon, is planning to develop the strip, destroying Ricky's bar, Sean's home, Sean's sister's home and workplace, and many other things.

Enraged, Emily storms off to talk to her father, with Sean following behind her. Emily wants to tell The Mob who her dad is, but is reluctantly convinced by Sean not to and instead finds out from her dad that there will be a meeting to determine whether the project to develop the strip goes through or not. Emily convinces the rest of The Mob to protest the plans. Their dance is a huge hit, gaining the group over a million more views.

Eddy finds out that Emily is William's daughter through watching a tape of Sean and Emily rehearsing where she reveals the truth, without knowing that they are being recorded. Enraged, he reveals Emily's complicity with The Mob to William through a protest flash mob. This ruins everything when Emily feels betrayed by Sean and he gets arrested for saving Eddy after a fight between the two.

Emily had rehearsed her Winwood audition piece as a duet with Sean, but now that she and Sean are estranged, Emily no longer has him as a dance partner. Instead, she adapts the piece, dancing it as a solo performance. The result falls flat and she fails her audition for the troupe. Sean finally meets Emily, still hurting from the humiliation, and tells him she is going back to work for her dad, per a promise she made with her dad that if she did not become a professional dancer by the end of the summer that she would work with him back in Cleveland.

After Sean and Eddy were sent to jail for being caught in the flash mob, Ricky bails them out. Sean ends his friendship with Eddy for destroying his relationship with Emily, knowing how much of a grudge he holds towards her father for firing him. Getting a pep talk from Ricky, Eddy and Sean make up for the wrongdoings they both made on each other. Together with the Mob again, they plan one more performance. No longer a contest, but a voice to be heard.

The final flash mob is aimed at the development's public announcement, with the help of members from The House of Pirates, including Moose (Adam Sevani), Vladd, Hair, and Jenny Kido. Sean and Emily then perform the original audition piece. Seeing his daughter so happy, William decides to build the community up rather than tear it down. Reconciled, Sean and Emily kiss passionately and make up, and Sean and Eddy make a deal with the owner of the marketing firm that represents Nike for the Mob to dance in their commercials.

####Step Up: All In####
Sean Asa and his flashmob crew, The Mob, have relocated from Miami, Florida to Los Angeles, where they are now trying to make a living from dancing, but are turned down at every audition. After being refused at another audition, the Mob visits a club where they are noticed and challenged to a dance battle by another crew, the Grim Knights. The Grim Knights win the battle and the Mob decides to pack up and leave Los Angeles and return to Miami, mostly because of financial difficulties, but also thinking there is nothing left for them and that they are not prepared for Los Angeles.

Sean decides to stay and while there, he notices a dance competition called "The Vortex" taking place with the prize being a three-year Las Vegas booking, inspiring him to put together a new crew with help from Moose. Moose gets Sean a job working as a janitor in a dance center owned by Moose's grandparents, where Sean takes up residence in a janitor's closet. Sean and Moose recruit Andie West and later Vladd, Violet, Hair, Chad, Monster, the Santiago Twins, Jenny Kido and Gauge to the crew. The group soon makes an audition video as the LMNTRIX and are accepted into the competition a few weeks later.

The crew heads to Las Vegas to compete. Upon arriving, Sean finds out that both the Grim Knights and the Mob are also in the competition, motivating the LMNTRIX to practice extra hard. While the rest of the crew are at a bar, Sean and Andie reveal they have broken up with their respective partners. Moose is kissed by another girl while freestyle dancing at the bar, which his girlfriend Camille Gage witnesses. She runs off, prompting Moose to leave the crew and return to Los Angeles to make up with her. The LMNTRIX battle the Mob in a "Vortex" exhibition match; during the battle, Sean tries to force Andie to perform a trick they tried during one of their practices but Andie refuses and leaves. The LMNTRIX, however, still win the battle and the Mob leave, angry at Sean. Sean finds Andie outside, where she confronts him about his actions, saying she was not ready to perform the trick. Sean realizes that he has been selfish and made a lot of mistakes; he apologizes to the Mob and later makes up with Andie and the LMNTRIX.

Moose goes home and finds Camille on their patio, where she reveals that she wasn't actually upset at him, but was jealous when she saw his dancing and realized that she hasn't committed herself to it, despite being a talented dancer; they later make up. Chad and Jenny Kido overhear Alexxa Brava, the host of "The Vortex", and Jasper, the leader of the Grim Knights, making out, realizing that Alexxa is rigging the competition. Once the whole crew finds out, they come up with a plan to teach Alexxa and the Grim Knights a lesson.

Moose returns and rejoins the crew (bringing Camille along), and the Mob join forces with the LMNTRIX for the competition. When the finals of "The Vortex" approach (the Grim Knights vs. the LMNTRIX), the Grim Knights give a great performance, which Alexxa remarks will be hard to beat. Before LMNTRIX perform, Sean takes the stage and discusses with the crowd that his experiences have taught him what really matters. He then persuades the crowd to forget about winning or losing and just enjoy the show. The rest of the crew then take the stage and give an amazing performance. Sean and Andie decide to end the dance by performing the trick Sean wanted her to do earlier in the film, which they successfully complete, followed by a passionate kiss between the two, leaving the crowd amazed.

The producers call Alexxa and inform her that the LMNTRIX won and that they will get the three-year contract for their own show. The film ends with the LMNTRIX and the Mob happily celebrating their excellent performance and victory.

####Stomp the Yard####
DJ Williams is a young man in inner-city Los Angeles. He and his younger brother Duron compete in local dance competitions as members of a crew known as the "Goon Squad". At the end of an intense dance battle, the Goon Squad wins a cash-prize. Sphere, the leader of rival crew The Thug Unit, goes all in for a double-or-nothing battle. DJ accepts to Duron's dismay, knowing they risk violent retaliation from the opposing crew. The Goon Squad wins the second battle and the Thug Unit responds by ambushing DJ and his crewmates after the show. A fight breaks out, and Sphere starts beating up DJ. Duron pushes him away and starts fighting him. Sphere pulls out a gun and fatally shoots Duron, devastating DJ.

After DJ is arrested and convicted of assault, his mother (wanting him to avoid prison) sends him to live with his aunt Jackie and uncle Nate in Atlanta, Georgia, where he is to attend the historically black Truth University. Nate, the physical plant director at Truth, aims to teach DJ responsibility and puts him to work doing maintenance as part of a work-study program.

DJ sees April Palmer, to whom he is immediately attracted. After registration, he moves into his dorm room, where he meets his new roommate Rich Brown. Rich meets with DJ at a stepping competition on the green between the Truth chapters of rival fraternities Theta Nu Theta and Mu Gamma Xi. The Mu Gamma Xi crew, seven-time national stepping champions, easily steals the show until DJ runs right through their step line in an attempt to speak to April. April rebuffs DJ's romantic attempts and returns to her boyfriend Grant, the co-leader of the Gammas.

That night, DJ, Rich, and their friends Byron, Paul and East go out to a local club called the Phoenix for the "Rep Your City" event. Hoping to impress April and upstage Grant and the Gammas (all of whom are also in attendance), DJ takes to the floor. Despite the animosity between DJ and Grant, the Gammas recognize his skills as a dancer and their chapter president Zeke invites him to pledge for Mu Gamma Xi. DJ turns down both Zeke's offer as well as an offer from the Theta Nu Theta chapter's leader Sylvester.

After learning that April is a student history tutor, DJ signs himself up for tutoring so that he can spend time with her. The two slowly begin a friendship and DJ takes April out to dinner. During their date, April discusses the importance of black fraternities and sororities with DJ, and tells him to visit Heritage Hall on the campus' Greek Row.

The next day, DJ learns about the significant number of African-American historical figures and celebrities who were members of various Greek-letter organizations, and decides to pledge for the Theta chapter along with Rich and their friend Noel. After "crossing over" to become official Theta members, DJ, Rich, and Noel join the Thetas' step crew.

While having dinner, April breaks up with Grant due to his arrogant and selfish behavior and his failure to know anything about her, particularly that green is her favorite color. She grows closer to DJ and they eventually become a couple. While at practice, DJ, Rich, Noel and other new members realize the step dance moves are old fashioned and aren't good enough to win the stepping competition. They decide to take the time to learn fresher moves. Sly then gathers his older members and challenges DJ and the rest to an old school vs. new school stepping contest. DJ blows the contest due to his showboating. They remind DJ, much like Duron did, that it is about the team and not about him. DJ apologizes to the entire fraternity and is quickly forgiven. Sly also requests that DJ show the team some of his street moves.

A few days before the competition, Grant stumbles upon DJ's file and discovers his assault record and presents it to the board. The board suspends DJ for not disclosing his criminal record. Dr. Palmer, who is April's father, calls in DJ to his office. He says he is willing to lift his suspension on the condition that DJ stays away from April. DJ declines the ultimatum and walks away. DJ then tells Nate and Jackie about the suspension. They then reveal that Jackie dated Dr. Palmer, a Gamma, until she met Nate and there has been animosity between Nate and Palmer ever since. Jackie confronts Palmer about DJ's suspension and Palmer claims he is only protecting April, who then confronts her father about the situation, having been listening from outside the door. Dr. Palmer reinstates DJ, deciding that he would rather deal with DJ in April's life than to lose April in his.

DJ rejoins the Thetas to compete alongside them against the Gammas in the stepping competition. Both teams are tied at the end and it is brought into sudden death rules to determine a winner. Unknown to DJ and the Thetas, the Gammas had recorded DJ practicing his moves prior to the competition. Going first, Grant uses some of DJ’s moves from the videotape. After he finishes, DJ matches Grant move for move, then finishes with Duron's signature move, something the Gammas didn't get on tape. The Thetas finally defeat the Gammas. April goes on stage to hug and kiss DJ. While celebrating their victory, DJ is still wearing Duron's gloves, and he kisses his fist and throws it in the air in honor of his brother. The Thetas have their picture taken, and it is displayed in Heritage Hall.

####The Strawberry Blonde####
The movie runs as a long flashback in the 1890's in New York City and opening with Biff Grimes (James Cagney) as an unsuccessful dentist on a Sunday without work. Hugo Barnstead (Jack Carson), an old partner,  nemesis and rival makes a desperate appointment to see him.  As Biff considers killing Hugo when he gives him nitrous oxide, the flashback begins.

Biff falls in love with strawberry-blonde society girl Virginia Brush (Rita Hayworth). However, Biff's more enterprising "pal", Hugo, wins Virginia's affections. Biff ends up marrying Virginia's less-glamorous best friend, Amy Lind (Olivia de Havilland), who Biff eventually realizes was the right one for him all along.multiple image
|align=right
|direction=vertical
|width=170
|header=
|image1=CagneyCreditStrawbBlonde1941Trailer.jpg
|image2=OliviaCreditStrawbBlonde1941Trailer.jpg
|image3=RitaCreditStrawbBlonde1941Trailer.jpg

####Summer Stock####
Jane Falbury (Judy Garland) is a farm owner whose actress sister, Abigail (Gloria DeHaven), arrives at the family farm with her theater troupe. They need a place to rehearse, and Jane and her housekeeper, Esme (Marjorie Main), reluctantly agree to let them use their barn. The actors and actresses, including the director, Joe Ross (Gene Kelly), repay her hospitality by doing chores around the farm. Although Joe is engaged to Abigail, he begins to fall in love with Jane after Abigail leaves him in an angry fit. Similarly, although Jane is engaged to Orville (Eddie Bracken), she falls in love with Joe.

####Sweet Adeline####
Sid Barnett, a young composer, is in love with Adeline Schmidt, the daughter of a beer garden owner, but her father Oscar dislikes him, preferring the Spanish-American War hero Major Day. Because Schmidt is completely opposed to show business, Adeline's sister Nellie runs away to New York, hoping to pursue a career as an actress. Adeline goes after her.

When Sid sees Adeline, he insists that she is the only one who can sing the songs in his new operetta. After she shows she has talent to the director, he agrees to replace Spanish actress Elysia. Because sponsor Rupert Rockingham will only finance the play if Elysia stars, Day steps in and offers to back the play with Adeline as the star. During rehearsals, Adeline and Sid quarrel, and she starts spending more time with Day. Meanwhile, Rockingham has discovered that Elysia is a spy. He plans to keep her identity secret because of his love for her, but Nellie convinces him that she is really the right woman for him. When Day proposes that Adeline become his mistress in return for his support of the play, she is insulted and announces that she will not go on stage after all. Sid pleads with her not to ruin his first operetta and she finally agrees, making Elysia very jealous. During the performance, Elysia injures Adeline seriously and the play closes. Adeline and Sid are still not speaking until during another rehearsal, director Dan Herzig teases them into kissing each other.

####Sweethearts####
Broadway stars Gwen Marlowe (Jeanette MacDonald) and Ernest Lane (Nelson Eddy) are appearing in a 6-year run of  Victor Herbert's operetta "Sweethearts" (Ray Bolger dances the role of  "Hans"). They are also very much in love after six years of marriage. Norman Trumpett (Reginald Gardiner) is a successful Hollywood talent scout under pressure to recruit Marlowe and Lane for his studio, which their Broadway producer Felix Lehman (Frank Morgan) is equally determined to prevent.

The couple's attempts to rest and be together are repeatedly thwarted by professional and personal demands made on their time, talents and money by Lehman and their own theatrical families - who also live with them. Frustrated beyond endurance and seduced by Trumpett's idyllic (and false) description of working conditions in Hollywood, they decide to quit the show and take the Hollywood offer. (In guise of buying a new wardrobe for the trip Jeanette MacDonald models fashions of 1938.)

This spells “the end” for the Broadway production, news so devastating that constantly feuding playwright Leo Kronk (Mischa Auer) and composer Oscar Engel (Herman Bing) stop fighting long enough for Lehman, Kronk and company to hatch a counter-plot. By convincing Marlowe that Lane is having an affair with his pretty secretary Kay Jordan (Florence Rice) they split-up the happy couple, putting an end to the Hollywood deal and allowing Lehman to mount two separate touring companies of the show, each with one star and one understudy.

Delighted with the outcome, Engel produces Kronk's new play - which closes in a week. From a "Variety" reviewcitation needed|date=June 2021  of the play, Marlowe and Lane realize they were tricked and join forces to confront Lehman, but nonetheless resume the Broadway run of "Sweethearts" together.

####Tea for Two####
Set as a flashback to the Roaring Twenties, Uncle Max (S. Z. Sakall) expresses displeasure to his grandniece and grandnephew, who are making fun of their parents' outdated fashions, and begins telling the story of Nanette Carter (Doris Day), a Westchester County, New York socialite with show business aspirations. She offers to invest $25,000 in a Broadway show if her boyfriend, producer Larry Blair (Billy De Wolfe), casts her in the starring role. What she doesn't realize is that Larry is two-timing her with ingenue Beatrice Darcy (Patrice Wymore), whom he envisions as the lead. When he accepts Nanette's offer, she imposes upon her wealthy, penny-pinching uncle, J. Maxwell Bloomhaus (Sakall) to lend her the money.

Uncle Max is willing to do so, on one condition. For the next 24 hours, Nanette must answer "no" to every question she's asked. Comic complications ensue when the cast arrives at Nanette's estate to rehearse, as composer and pianist Jimmy Smith (Gordon MacRae), who has romantic designs on Nanette, falls victim to the bet she's made with her uncle. Nanette wins, only to discover that Uncle Max lost all his money in the stock market crash. The only person still solvent is attorney William Early (Bill Goodwin). So, Nanette's assistant Pauline Hastings (Eve Arden) sets out to charm him into backing the show — and succeeds. The show 'No, No, Nanette' opens and is a rousing success.

Then, in a sudden flash to the present time, Uncle Max finishes his story right before Nanette and Jimmy return home to their two children.

####That Girl from Paris####
Nikki Martin, a Parisian opera star, takes off in search of adventure and true-love leaving her arranged husband to be at the alter. While hitchhiking, Nikki meets handsome American musician, Windy McLean and his band, the McLean Wildcats. Windy immediately spites her, but Nikki falls in love with him and follows him to New York by stowing away on the ship his on. The steward finds her hiding in Windy and the Wilcats room. She is locked up by authorities and Windy and the band are fired. When the ship reaches New York, Nikki escapes off the ship and finds out the Wilcats apartment. They demand her to leave, fearing being implicated but she refuses. Clair, Windy girlfriend shows up with Hammacher, and offers the band a low paying job at a roadhouse in another city. Anxious to depart, they accept. Nikki becomes the bands singer. Clair becomes jealous and reports her to the authorities, causing the band to flee again.

####This Time for Keeps####
Richard Herald is a famous opera singer and father to Richard Herald II, who has recently returned from fighting in the war and now prefers to be known as Dick Johnson. Dick has been engaged to socialite Frances Allenbury since before he left for the war, but has been expressing some apprehension about marrying her.

Mr. Herald wants his son to join him at the opera company, but Dick wants to enjoy his life now that he's out of the army. Backstage at the theater, he sees a magazine featuring Leonora "Nora" Cambaretti, an aquacade star. Earlier, as it turns out, after Dick received an injury during the war, he stayed at a hospital where Leonora performed for the patients.

Dick had yet to have his bandages removed from his eyes and head, so he couldn't see Nora. Other servicemen described her beauty to him, as her family's friend, Ferdi Farr, played on the piano. Thinking he was blind, Nora allowed Dick to touch her face and then kissed him, only to then find out that he was able to see.

Nora is now performing as the star of the Aqua Capers show. Dick surprises her there, and he reminds her of their previous meeting by giving her a quick kiss, getting his nose twisted as punishment. Nora knows Dick is there to flirt, but she offers him a job with the show, but Ferdi convinces his friend Xavier Cugat to give Dick a position as a baritone at his nightclub.


After an Aqua Capers performance, Dick and Nora go to dinner. Ferdi reminds her that she barely knows anything about Dick. At rehearsal the next day, Nora says before she can fall in love, Dick must pass inspection from her family back on Mackinac Island. Dick leaves with Nora while Frances's mother, Harriet, meets with Richard and agrees to announce their children's engagement, unbeknownst to Dick.

On the island, Dick meets Nora's grandmother and niece Deborah, who warm up to him after he sings Grandmother's favorite song, "(I’ll be with You) In Apple Blossom Time". Nora's grandmother grants her approval of Dick for Nora. A bit later, Dick leaves to tell his father about his relationship with Nora and break off the engagement to Frances, which Dick has not told Nora about.

Gordon finds an engagement announcement in the newspaper regarding Dick and Frances and shows it to Ferdi. Ferdi tells Nora about it and she is heartbroken. Gordon arranges for her to stay somewhere Dick can't find her. Six weeks later, Mr. Herald arrives at an Aqua Capers rehearsal in an attempt to find Nora, but Ferdi will not tell him where she is. Ferdi goes to Xavier Cugat's club to see Dick, who accuses Ferdi of being in love with Nora as well.


Meanwhile, summer arrives on Mackinac Island and tourists are flocking there. Cugat's band has a contract to perform at the Grand Hotel, and Dick goes with them. Deborah, knowing that Nora (traveling with Gordon and Ferdi) has arrived by boat, hurries to the hotel and notifies Dick, who loads Deborah onto her bicycle and together they ride to the Cambaretti house to speak with Nora.

This trip, Nora has brought Gordon for her grandmothers' approval. Suddenly, Dick and little Deborah walk in. Dick tries in vain to explain all that has happened. Nora remains confused and upset. She rejects him, so he leaves. Nora and Deborah both start to cry and flee upstairs, where Ferdi overhears them. He invites Mr. Herald to the island, where he apologizes to Grandmother Cambaretti for placing the announcement in the newspaper. He also recognizes her from her old days as a performer in the circus. The two decide that their children should be married and come up with a way to push the two together.

While Nora is at the swimming pool of the hotel, teaching Deborah to dive and swim, Dick begins singing "Easy to Love" with Cugat's female vocalist, which makes Deborah jealous. That night, Nora decides she is going to go after Gordon, but Ferdi convinces her otherwise.

Mr. Herald takes Grandmother to listen to Dick's performance at the hotel, where he convinces Cugat to fire his son and then begins to sing for the audience. He stops singing "La donna è mobile" and begins "Easy to Love", during which Dick gets up and sits next to Nora, where they hold hands and snuggle.

####Thoroughly Modern Millie####
In 1922 New York City, flapper Millie Dillmount is determined to find work as a stenographer to a wealthy businessman and then marry him – a "thoroughly modern" goal. Millie befriends the sweet yet naive Miss Dorothy Brown as the latter checks into the Priscilla Hotel. When housemother Mrs. Meers learns that Miss Dorothy is an orphan, she remarks, "Sad to be all alone in the world." Unbeknown to Millie, the woman is selling her tenants into sexual slavery, and those without family or close friends are her primary targets.

At a Friendship Dance in the Dining Hall, Millie meets the devil-may-care paper clip salesman Jimmy Smith, to whom she takes an instant liking. However, she carries on with her plan to work for and then marry a rich man, and when she gets a job at Sincere Trust, she sets her sights on the attractive but self-absorbed Trevor Graydon. Jimmy later takes her and Miss Dorothy on an outing to Long Island, where they meet eccentric widow Muzzy Van Hossmere. Jimmy tells the girls that his father was Muzzy's former gardener.  Millie begins to fall for Jimmy, but she sees him summon Miss Dorothy from her room for a late night rendezvous, and assumes the worst.

Millie is even more determined to stick to her plan and marry Trevor. One morning, she goes to work dressed as a flapper and attempts to seduce him, but her effort fails. Eventually, Trevor sees Miss Dorothy and falls in love with her, and vice versa, leaving Millie heartbroken.

Meanwhile, Jimmy's attempts to talk to Millie are continually thwarted by no-nonsense head stenographer Miss Flannary. He eventually climbs up the side of the building and when he finally gets to talk to Millie, she tells him that she is quitting her job since Mr. Graydon is no longer available.

Mrs. Meers makes several attempts to kidnap Miss Dorothy and hand her over to her Chinese henchmen Bun Foo and Ching Ho, but Millie manages to interrupt her every time. When Mrs. Meers finally succeeds, Millie finds Trevor drowning his sorrows, and he tells her that Miss Dorothy stood him up and checked out of the hotel. Jimmy climbs into Miss Dorothy's room, lets Millie in, and they find all of Miss Dorothy's possessions still there. Millie realizes that Miss Dorothy is just one of several girls who have vanished without a word to anyone, except to Mrs. Meers. Together with Trevor Graydon, they try to piece the puzzle together. When Jimmy asks what all the missing girls had in common, Millie mentions that they were all orphans.

Jimmy disguises himself as a woman named Mary James seeking accommodations at the Priscilla Hotel, and "casually" mentions to Mrs. Meers that she is an orphan. Mrs. Meers spots Trevor sitting in his car in front of the hotel, becomes suspicious, and shoots him with a tranquilizer dart. Mary James is subsequently captured by Mrs. Meers and her henchmen, and Millie follows them to Chinatown, where the unconscious Jimmy has been hidden in a room in a fireworks factory where Miss Dorothy is sleeping. Trying to look casual, Millie smokes a cigarette outside the building, and when she begins to choke on it, she tosses it into a window, setting off the fireworks. As a series of explosions tear through the building, Millie dashes into the factory and finds several white girls tied up, about to be sent off to Beijing. She unties a couple of them, who then free the other girls, and then bumps into Miss Dorothy. They carry Jimmy out of the building and head for Long Island and Muzzy.

Mrs. Meers, Bun Foo, and Ching Ho follow Millie and the gang, but under Muzzy's leadership, everyone manages to subdue the nefarious trio. Millie then discovers that Jimmy and Miss Dorothy are actually millionaire siblings and that Muzzy is their stepmother who sent them out into the world to find partners who would love them for who they were and not for their money. Millie marries Jimmy, Miss Dorothy marries Trevor, and Muzzy marries one of her instructors.

####Thousands Cheer####
The film is essentially a two-part program. The first half consists of a romantic comedy storyline involving an aerialist, played by Gene Kelly, who is drafted into the US Army but really wants to join the Air Force. During training, he falls in love with Kathryn (played by Kathryn Grayson), the daughter of his commanding officer, who has similarly put her singing career on hold in order to serve by providing entertainment for the troops. Unusually for this type of a film (and for this era of Hollywood), the character Kathryn has only recently met her father for the first time since she was a baby, her parents having separated but remaining married. A related subplot has Kathryn conniving to get her parents (played by John Boles and Mary Astor) to reconcile. During the first part of the film, Grayson sings several numbers and Kelly performs one of his most famous routines, dancing with a mop as a partner.

The secondary plot involves preparations for a major live show for the soldiers which will feature many MGM musical and comedy stars. For the second half of the film, all pretenses of a storyline are effectively abandoned as the film instead becomes a variety showcase of comedy, song, and dance, with all of the performers (save Kelly and Grayson) appearing as themselves. The show portion is hosted by Mickey Rooney.

####Three Daring Daughters####
It's Tess's graduation day from Miss Drake's School for Girls. During the choir's performance at the ceremony, Tess notices that her beautiful divorcée mother, Louise Rayton Morgan, isn't there. Louise, an editor for "Modern Design" magazine, is in Dr. Cannon's office after fainting due to being overworked and stressed.

At home after the graduation ceremony, Dr. Cannon has a talk with Louise's three daughters, Tess, Ilka and Alix. He tells them that their mother needs a vacation badly, but the only way she can relax is if she goes without the girls. Louise is reluctant, but the girls convince her to go. They see their mother off on a one-month Cuban cruise. The girls then discuss whether they could bring their father back home and make their mom happy and healthy again.

In reality, Louise has kept the truth about their father from them. He was actually a very uncaring man, who left Louise to raise the girls on her own. They go to see their father's boss, Robert Nelson, to locate their father. Meanwhile, on Louise's cruise, she meets famed pianist and conductor José Iturbi. José is immediately taken by Louise, but she plays hard to get, while having the time of her life. When Louise finally returns home, she has a secret to tell the girls.

####Three Smart Girls####
Three sisters living in Switzerland hear their father is going to marry a younger woman in New York. They travel there to stop it.

Their plan involves getting a man to seduce her father's fiancée. They accidentally hire a genuinely rich man who falls for one of the sisters.

####Thrill of a Romance####
Cynthia Glenn (Esther Williams) is a swimming instructor in Los Angeles, where she lives with her scatterbrained aunt and uncle Nona and Hobart (Spring Byington and Henry Travers). While demonstrating a dive, she catches the eye of an interested stranger, Bob Delbar (Carleton G. Young). Cynthia receives flowers from the stranger. The two court for one month, then get married.

On their honeymoon at the hotel Monte Belva, they encounter the famous opera singer, Nils Knudsen (Lauritz Melchior). Major Thomas Milvaine (Van Johnson), also staying at the hotel, notices Cynthia. A rich colleague, J. P. Bancroft, insists that Bob come to Washington, D.C. to complete a deal. While Cynthia cries over Bob's departure, Tommy, staying next door, comforts her.

Next day by the pool, she and Bancroft's daughter, Maude (Frances Gifford) speculate as to which hotel guest is Major Thomas Milvaine, the decorated war hero, who shot down "16... or was it 26 war planes?" and was stuck on a deserted island for a month. After Maude teases Cynthia about being at the hotel without her husband, Cynthia performs an elaborate dive and runs into Major Milvaine himself, who can't actually swim, so she teaches him how.

. She calls Bob and begs him to return, but he can't.

Cynthia looks for Tommy the next morning, but is told that he has checked out. She goes for a walk on the Sunset Trail. Tommy sets off after her on the trail. Bob telephones the hotel and leaves a message that he will arrive the following morning. Tommy and Cynthia spot a tree with initials engraved on it. Cynthia tells Tommy that she loves him but wants to give her marriage a chance, so they should never see each other again. However, they lose their way and are forced to spend the night in the woods.

The next morning, Bob can't find his wife in the hotel. When they do return, Tommy tries to explain their disappearance, while Bob realizes that the two are in love. He becomes angry with Cynthia, and announces he wants an annulment. Bob calls his lawyer, learning he was never actually divorced from his previous wife. Tommy leaves to become an instructor at Darwin Field, and Cynthia returns home to her aunt and uncle.

Nils Knudsen telephones Tommy, and the two go to Cynthia's house late at night, where they serenade her. Tommy lip-synches Knudsen's voice to a love song to Cynthia. She runs outside to Tommy, and the two share a kiss while Knudsen continues singing, leaving Nona, and a bemused Hobart, to wonder how Tommy can sing and kiss at the same time.

####Tin Pan Alley####
Katie and Lily Blaine are a singing-sister act playing the vaudeville circuit. Songwriters Skeets Harrigan and Harry Calhoun see star potential in the sister act.

####Tonight and Every Night####
Near the end of the war, a reporter from "Life" magazine comes to the Music Box Theatre in London to write a story about the music hall that never missed putting on a performance during the Blitz. Stage manager Sam Royce recalls the halcyon days at the beginning of the war: Theatrical impresario May "Tolly" Tolliver is rehearsing her performers when dancer Tommy Lawson comes to audition. Although Tommy is a naturally gifted dancer, he improvises all his steps and consequently, Tolly refuses to hire him. Taking pity on Tommy, Americans Rosalind Bruce and Judy Kane, members of the troupe, teach him their routines, and he wins a part in the show.

One night, RAF pilot Paul Lundy comes to the theater and is infatuated with Ros. When German planes discharge their bombs over the theater, the audience and performers take refuge in the building's basement, and there Paul meets Ros and invites her to dinner. Ros refuses his invitation, but after the raid, she and Judy stop by the neighborhood restaurant, and Paul is waiting with champagne. Ros begins to date Paul, but when he tricks her into coming to his apartment by promising to introduce her to a non-existent soldier from her home town of St. Louis, she feels betrayed and refuses to talk to him.

Desperate to see Ros, Paul convinces his group captain to request that the Music Box troupe appear at the upcoming RAF theatrical. At the RAF show, Paul begs Ros to forgive him, and when he is called away on a mission, she relents and accepts his confession of love. Tommy, who is also in love with Ros, begins to drink to dull the pain of rejection. After Paul returns from his assignment, he tells Ros that he must leave again the next morning, and the two plan to spend an intimate evening at Paul's apartment. When they arrive, however, they find that Paul's building has been flattened in a German bombing raid.

The next day, Paul is planning to propose to Ros when he is called into his group captain's office and ordered to leave immediately on a secret assignment. Two weeks pass without word from Paul, causing Ros to worry. One night, Ros sees several flyers from Paul's squadron, and when they tell her that the entire squadron has been on a two-week leave, Ros believes that Paul has lost interest in their romance.

When Ros receives a note from Paul's father, Reverend Gerald Lundy, asking to meet her after the show that night, she assumes that Paul has sent him as an emissary to terminate their relationship. Ros is relieved when Reverend Lundy explains that Paul has been assigned a special mission and shows her a Bible that Paul had sent to his father. The Reverend opens the Bible to the page marked by Ros's picture, and on that page, a passage, proposing marriage, is highlighted. The Reverend then proposes for his absent son and welcomes Ros to the family.

Upon learning of Paul's proposal, Tommy jealously predicts that Ros will desert the theater. When Paul returns soon after and asks Ros to honeymoon in Canada, she refuses to leave the troupe until Tommy offers his congratulations and insists that she go. Afterward, Judy, who is secretly in love with Tommy, goes to console him at the pub, and after drinking a toast to Ros, they kiss. Their happiness is short-lived, however, as a German bomb strikes the pub, killing them both. Despite the tragedy, the night's performance goes on, and as Ros sings Judy's song, she determines to stay with the show.
<gallery mode=packed heights=160px>
File:Tonight-and-Every-Night-LIFE-6.jpg|Florence Bates, Geraldine Farnum, Lee Bowman, Rita Hayworth, Janet Blair and Leslie Brooks
File:Tonight-and-Every-Night-LIFE-1.jpg|Rita Hayworth and Jack Cole
File:Tonight-and-Every-Night-LIFE-2.jpg|Rita Hayworth and Jack Cole
File:Tonight-and-Every-Night-LIFE-4.jpg|Rita Hayworth and Lee Bowman
File:Tonight-and-Every-Night-LIFE-5.jpg|Janet Blair, Lee Bowman, Rita Hayworth and Florence Bates
</gallery>

####Top Hat####
An American dancer, Jerry Travers comes to London to star in a show produced by the bumbling Horace Hardwick. While practicing a tap dance routine in his hotel bedroom, he awakens Dale Tremont on the floor below. She storms upstairs to complain, whereupon Jerry falls hopelessly in love with her and proceeds to pursue her all over London.

Dale mistakes Jerry for Horace, who is married to her friend Madge. Following the success of Jerry's opening night in London, Jerry follows Dale to Venice, where she is visiting Madge and modelling/promoting the gowns created by Alberto Beddini, a dandified Italian fashion designer with a penchant for malapropisms.

Jerry proposes to Dale, who, while still believing that Jerry is Horace,  is disgusted that her friend's husband could behave in such a manner and agrees instead to marry Alberto. Fortunately, Bates, Horace's meddling English valet, disguises himself as a priest and conducts the ceremony; Horace had sent Bates to keep tabs on Dale.

On a trip in a gondola, Jerry manages to convince Dale and they return to the hotel where the previous confusion is rapidly cleared up. The reconciled couple dance off into the Venetian sunset, to the tune of "The Piccolino."

####Trolls####
The Trolls are small, colorful, perpetually-happy creatures who sing, dance, and hug all day. They are discovered by the gigantic, ugly, and miserable Bergens, who believe they can only feel happy by consuming a Troll. The Bergens imprison the Trolls in a caged tree, and eat them every year on a special occasion, Trollstice. On the year that Prince Gristle Jr., son of King Gristle Sr., is due to eat his first troll, the chef in charge of the ceremony discovers that the Trolls' leader, King Peppy, has taken his infant daughter, Princess Poppy, and his people and organized an escape. King Gristle Sr. banishes Chef, and she vows to find the trolls, while secretly plotting to overthrow the monarchy as revenge for her exile.

Twenty years later, an adult Poppy organizes a gigantic party to celebrate the anniversary of the escape. A serious, grey, survivalist male troll named Branch warns that this could compromise their position, but everyone ignores him. His warnings come true when Chef follows the lights and noise and kidnaps Poppy's best friends, along with her love interest, a "zen" troll named Creek. While the rest cower in Branch's survival bunker, Poppy sets off alone to rescue her friends. She gets herself into several potentially deadly situations and is finally rescued by Branch, who thinks the quest is hopeless and reluctantly followed her to escape his crowded bunker.

Upon arrival in Bergen Town, Poppy and Branch see Gristle Jr. now king. Chef serves Creek to the King, who appears to eat him, but Poppy still holds out hope Creek is alive, and finds the rest of the trolls guarded by a young scullery maid named Bridget. Learning that Bridget is secretly in love with Gristle Jr., Poppy and the trolls agree to help her get a date in exchange for her help in ascertaining if Creek is alive. When Branch refuses to sing along with the rest in the ensuing musical number, he and Poppy argue, and he reveals that he has refused to sing ever since his singing drew the attention of Chef, who found his home and ate his grandmother when she tried to protect him. His color turned from blue to grey that day from the guilt.

Poppy comforts him with a hug, and the trolls disguise Bridget as "Lady Glittersparkles". She and Gristle Jr. go on a date at a roller rink/arcade restaurant, and Poppy spots Creek held captive in a jewel on Gristle's mantle. After the date, the trolls go to Gristle's room and attempt to free Creek, but discover the jewel is empty. Chef arrives and recaptures them, and Poppy is horrified to learn that Creek, in exchange for his own survival, has betrayed them all to Chef. He steals Poppy's cowbell and uses it to summon the rest of the trolls, whom Chef captures and places in a pot intended to be served at the feast. Poppy and the other trolls fall into despair, and turn gray.

Branch, given a change of heart, sings "True Colors" to cheer her up. Poppy reciprocates his feelings and sings along, and all the trolls, including Branch, regain their colors. Bridget, unwilling to see harm come to the trolls, releases them while Chef is not looking. Poppy, knowing how the angry Bergens will react, refuses to allow Bridget to sacrifice herself. The trolls return and explain to the Bergens that Lady Glittersparkles is actually Bridget, and that she and Gristle are already happy being in love with one another.

The trolls show the Bergens they too can find happiness inside themselves, bringing joy to Bergen Town. Chef refuses to surrender, and she and Creek are put on a flaming serving cart and sent rolling out of Bergen Town into the woods. Back home, Poppy is made Queen of the Trolls and begins a relationship with Branch. In a mid-credits scene, Creek and Chef find themselves on the top of a hill, where Chef attempts to eat Creek, but the hill, which is actually a monster, eats them.

####Turn the Beat Around####
"Turn the Beat Around" focuses around a 21-year-old woman named Zoe (played by Romina D'Ugo) who dreams of becoming a famous dancer similar to her idol Malika (played by Brooklyn Sudano) and she persuades a local dance club owner Michael Krasny (played by David Giuntoli) to open a disco-themed danceclub. Zoe's rather unsupportive boyfriend Chris (played by Adam T. Brooks) doesn't approve of their partnership. The film features original music performed by Just Kait and Jason Derülo.

####Two Girls and a Sailor####
Two sisters, Jean and Patsy Deyo, are born into a vaudeville family, and when they grow up, start an act themselves. One night, they invite a bunch of servicemen to their apartment. They are both attracted to a sailor named Johnny. Jean points out to Johnny an unused nearby warehouse they wish they could make into a canteen to entertain the troops.

An anonymous benefactor they call "Somebody" starts fulfilling that goal. First, a Mr. Nizby shows up and hands them the keys to the warehouse, announcing they now own it. As the two sisters explore the dusty building, they discover that Billy Kipp, an old vaudeville performer they knew as kids, has been squatting there ever since his wife left him and took their infant son many years ago. A horde of cleaners tidies up, and the place is made into an inviting canteen, all courtesy of "Somebody". Famous entertainers perform, as do Jean and Patsy.

Johnny starts dating Jean, unaware that Patsy is also in love with him. Meanwhile, Patsy tries to discover who "Somebody" is. Finally, she learns that he is none other than Johnny. Also, Johnny turns out to be in love with Patsy, and Jean with Sergeant Frank Miller, but both did not want to hurt the other. Everything gets straightened out in the end. To top it off, Billy spots a sailor who looks just like a younger version of himself, down to his nose. His son and he are joyfully reunited.

####Two Weeks with Love####
The Robinson family is at the Stanley House Hotel, located in "Kissamee-in-the-Catskills", a resort town, for their annual two-week vacation. The resort owner's son, Billy, is enamored with Patti, who declines all of his invitations, considering him too young at 16 since she has just turned 17. Younger sister Melba is interested in Billy, but he is determined to chase after Patti.

Patti and her friend Valerie, a slightly older actress, compete for the attention of Demi, a handsome Cuban newly arrived at the resort. Valerie gives Patti poor advice on dealing with men and frequently points out that Patti is still a child.

Mr. Robinson overhears Billy and Patti complaining: Billy, because his father refuses to let him wear long pants, and Patti, because her mother refuses to let her wear a corset. Despite his wife's objections, Mr. Robinson buys a corset for Patti, inadvertently selecting a Surgical Corset (Back-brace corset) which has steel bone corsetry stays that lock up when the wearer bends too far.

At the variety show, Valerie convinces the resort owner to cut Patti from the show, but when Valerie cannot find her dancing shoes, she refuses to perform and Patti takes her place in a dance with Demi. During the dance, Patti's corset locks up and she is carried from the stage.

Mrs. Robinson releases Patti from the corset and promises to buy her a proper corset the next day. Demi receives permission from Patti's parents to call on her when they return to the city.

####Under the Cherry Moon####
Christopher Tracy and his friend Tricky are gigolos, originally from Miami, who live on the French Riviera. Christopher works as a piano player at the Venus de Milo nightclub in Nice and, along with Tricky, spends his days identifying rich women to target in order to gain large amounts of money via marriage. At the beginning of the film, Christopher is in an informal relationship with wealthy divorced spinster Mrs. Wellington, while Tricky is romantically involved with their landlady, Katy, who is threatening to toss them out onto the streets unless they pay two months of back rent.

One day, while reading the front page of the local newspaper, Tricky notices that Mary Sharon is due to have her 21st birthday and thus inherit a $50 million trust fund established by her father Isaac, a shipping magnate. Deciding that Mary will make a suitable next target, they both gatecrash the party, held at the Sharon Estate. Christopher catches Mary's attention, but quickly learns that her father has arranged for her to be engaged to Jonathan, an employee of his, to consolidate the fortunes of two powerful families.

Mary rejects Christopher at the party and bouncers throw both him and Tricky out. She visits Christopher the following day at the nightclub where he works and delivers a message from Mrs. Wellington to visit her house later that evening. Christopher visits Mrs. Wellington, but realizes that the arrangement is a setup, as she is having an affair with Mary's father.

Christopher and Tricky meet with Mary at an exclusive restaurant, where both of them mock her privileged upbringing and lack of street sensibility. Christopher performs "Girls & Boys", but the song is interrupted when Isaac, alerted to Mary's presence by a maître d', takes her home. Humiliated at how her father still controls her life, Mary vows to become her own woman. Both Christopher and Tricky start to genuinely fall in love with Mary, but realize that if they continue to pursue her, her father, who has been using his bodyguards to trace them, will deal with them severely. They try to sneak into Mary's bedroom late one night, but accidentally disturb her mother Muriel instead before running off.

When Christopher fails to show for a meeting with Tricky, due to meeting Mary at a nearby racecourse, Tricky gets drunk and reveals to Mary their scam in order to get her money. Hurt by the revelation, she confronts her mother about the hypocrisy on which she was raised, and they decide to immediately leave France to visit Jonathan in New York. Mrs. Wellington meets Christopher and tells him that Isaac will pay him $100,000 to stay away from his daughter; an incensed Christopher writes a classic obscenity on it, hands it back and is ready to leave when she tells him Mary is leaving at midnight on the family plane for New York. As he pulls off, she wishes him good luck. He wins Mary back at the airport after the two passionately argue with each other.

Isaac, now aware that Mary is in love with Christopher, alerts the Chief of Police and harbor patrol and orders them to locate both his daughter and her lover immediately. The harbor patrol quickly locates them, and a marksman on the boat is told to shoot Christopher. Mary pleads with Christopher to run away, but he gets off the boat onto the dock, saying he will not go without her, and the marksman fatally shoots him. As a distraught Tricky falls to his knees in prayer, Mary goes to the dock and cradles Christopher, who dies happily in her arms whilst Isaac, Tricky and Katy look on. When Isaac arrives to take Mary home, she says she is going with Christopher and accompanies the patrol boat, leaving Isaac alone on the dock.

In the film's epilogue, it is revealed that Tricky has moved back to Miami with Katy and is now in charge of his own apartment complex, which has been bought for him by Mary, now his investor. In a letter to Tricky delivered by Katy, Mary reveals that she is moving on with her life, but will never forget Christopher as long as she lives.

####Under Your Spell####
New York City opera star Anthony Allen lives a privileged but controlled life, recording hit songs and drawing large crowds to performances while existing in constant strain with his agent Petroff, who imposes on him a stressful performance schedule and a near-constant chain of vacuous promotional stunts. Chicago socialite Cynthia Drexel sees Allen perform in a production of Gounod's "Faust" and makes a bet with her longtime suitor, the Count Raul du Rienne: either she can make the notoriously unavailable Allen sing at a private party, or else she will marry him. After the show, Drexel makes a deal with Petroff, offering him $15,000 ($288,187 in 2021 dollars) as a fee for his appearance at a private party. Not knowing of this new arrangement, Allen is especially insulted by one final publicity stunt, fires Petroff, and flees with devoted manservant Botts, first to his hometown in New Mexico, then to his secluded cabin in the Sierra Madres. Neither Petroff nor Botts can convince him to return to his life as a public figure, forcing Drexel to set out in her own private plane to find him.

Drexel confronts Allen in the Sierra Madres, where she fails to convince him to return, but does attract his romantic interest. The two spend a tense but romantically charged weekend together, until a misunderstanding compels Cynthia to hastily leave. Now intrigued, Allen returns to Chicago with her belongings. He finds Drexel furious; she criticizes his singing and (falsely) tells him she has no romantic interest in him, as she is engaged to Count Du Rienne. Cynthia sues him for breach of contract, but in court Anthony argues that he refused to sing for her because of her lack of appreciation for his talent, and the case is dismissed. Drexel and Allen, each of whom have realized the depth of their feelings for each other, arrange to meet outside the courtroom. Allen conceals himself in a doorway, and when Drexel walks by, he pulls her inside and proceeds to viciously spank her. They emerge a happy couple. Petroff calls a press conference at which he announces their union, and the couple signs their marriage license.

####Up in Central Park####
In New York City in the 1870s, as the city prepares for the upcoming election, corrupt political boss William Tweed (Vincent Price) and his Tammany Hall political machine are working hard to re-elect their candidates, including Mayor Oakley (Hobart Cavanaugh), in order to continue exploiting the coffers of the city and state. The one voice opposing Boss Tweed's organization is John Matthews (Dick Haymes), a young naïve reporter for "The New York Times".

When Irish immigrant Timothy Moore (Albert Sharpe) and his singing daughter Rosie (Deanna Durbin) arrive in New York City hoping for a better life, they are set upon immediately by Rogan (Tom Powers), one of Boss Tweed's men. The illiterate Timothy agrees to vote twenty-three times for the Tammany ticket, and is rewarded with $50 and an invitation to Boss Tweed's victory party. At the party, Rosie inadvertently overhears Boss Tweed's latest plan to embezzle the city's coffers through the unnecessary renovation of Central Park. Fearing that Rosie may know about his plan, Boss Tweed appoints the unknowing Timothy to the post of Park Superintendent.

Sometime later, John meets Timothy, the new Park Superintendent. Unaware that John is a reporter, Timothy reveals that some of the park's zoo animals are actually being raised for Boss Tweed's consumption. After John's story appears in the paper, Timothy is fired, but when Rosie appeals to an infatuated Boss Tweed to give her father another chance, he agrees. Also smitten with Rosie, John offers Timothy a job with his newspaper. Soon after, John tries to convince Rosie of Boss Tweed's dishonesty, but is unsuccessful. Later that night, Rosie almost discovers Boss Tweed's true character when he makes numerous, lecherous advances toward her during dinner, but is interrupted by Timothy, who mistakenly believes that he was invited.

After Rosie arranges a meeting between John and Boss Tweed, the political boss offers to sponsor John's proposed novel if he agrees to quit his job at "The New York Times". John refuses the bribe. Later, John discovers Timothy attending grammar school classes; with the help of a schoolteacher named Miss Murch, the old man learns of Boss Tweed's corruption. When Timothy tries to tell his daughter about Boss Tweed's true character, she refuses to listen, having become romantically involved with the married man.

Through Boss Tweed's influence, Rosie soon auditions for an opera company, and though she is offered a role in an upcoming production, Tweed insists that she be cast in the current show. Meanwhile, Timothy, upset over his daughter's involvement with Tweed, approaches John and offers to help him gain evidence against the political boss by breaking into city hall and examining the city's financial records. The two men are discovered by a drunken Mayor Oakley when he wanders into his office, but they trick him into giving his copies of Boss Tweed's financial dealings to the newspaperman.

After their corruption is exposed in the newspapers, Boss Tweed and his associates prepare to flee the country, but Tweed offers no apologies to Rosie for his actions, stating his belief in the rights of the strong over the weak. After he leaves her, Rosie wanders through Central Park, where she is discovered by Timothy and John. After requesting her father's forgiveness, Rosie is reunited with John.

####Valley Girl####
In present day, Ruby Richman arrives home, upset about breaking up with her boyfriend that night over her plans to participate in a study program in Japan. Her mother, Julie, sits her down and recounts to Ruby her own final semester of high school.

In the early 1980s, as a teenager, Julie is a Valley girl who lives in Encino, Los Angeles, frequents shopping malls with her friends, Stacey, Karen and Loryn and dates Mickey, a popular but arrogant jock. However, she begins to feel disillusioned to her lifestyle and has second thoughts regarding her future with Mickey. She also  aspires to attend the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, rather than Cal State Northridge, as her parents and friends expect. At the beach, she comes across Randy, a Hollywood punk and lead singer of the band Safety Recall. The two flirt briefly before she abruptly leaves. That night, Julie and her friends attend a costume party at Mickey's house. Randy and his bandmates, Sticky and Jack, arrive at the venue, but are promptly thrown out. Later, Randy insists Julie leaves the party with him. Accompanied by a reluctant Stacey, Julie joins Randy and his friends to attend the band's performance at a punk nightclub. After Stacey leaves and Safety Recall perform, Julie spends the rest of the night with Randy, culminating with the two sharing a kiss.

The next morning, Julie breaks up with Mickey, which frustrates her friends. She begins spending more time with Randy and changes her fashion style, while Karen begins dating Mickey. This causes further conflict between her and her friends, while the same rift occurs between Randy and his bandmates. One day, Julie invites Randy over for dinner on behest of her parents Diana and Steve. However, he overhears them talk about his lack of discipline and leaves. Later, at Stacey's birthday party, Mickey begins to antagonize Randy, resulting in the two getting into a physical fight that gets Randy thrown out. Stacey also gets upset at Julie for bringing him and forces her to leave too. Outside, Julie breaks up with Randy after the two argue over their clashing backgrounds and her friends' attitudes toward him.

Later, Julie reluctantly agrees to be Mickey's date to the prom, who has broken up with Karen. She apologizes to Stacey, who forgives her and reveals she has been accepted to Dartmouth College. Meanwhile, Randy makes amends with his bandmates and decide to leave for New York before encouraging him to go after Julie. At the mall, Mickey reveals that Karen was not accepted to Northridge, unlike Loryn. On the night of the prom, Julie and Mickey are crowned prom king and queen. As the two dance, Julie breaks up with Mickey and begins to leave. Safety Recall arrive for a surprise performance, however, Mickey and his friends sabotage the equipment. Despite this, Julie and Randy share a duet and reunite. Later, Julie reconciles with Karen and Loryn is contacted to be a background dancer in an upcoming music video. As their friends dance, Julie and Randy leave the venue in Mickey's rented limousine.

In present day, Julie reveals that Safety Recall signed a record deal in New York as she was finishing her degree at FIT and joined them on their first tour before eventually breaking up with Randy. She tells Ruby that while she did not end up with Randy, she enjoyed their time together and is happy with the life that she chose. In the end, text appears on screen, revealing everyone's future successes, except for Mickey who received a restraining order from the producers of "The Bachelor" for repeatedly sending them his audition tape.

####Victor/Victoria####
In 1934 Paris, Carroll "Toddy" Todd, an aging gay performer at Club Chez Lui in Paris, sees Labisse, the owner, auditioning frail and impoverished soprano, Victoria Grant. After her failed audition, Victoria returns to her hotel room to find herself about to be evicted, as she is unable to pay her rent. That night, when Richard, a hustler with whom Toddy is romantically involved, comes to Chez Lui as part of a straight foursome, Toddy incites a brawl resulting in major damages and the police locking up whomever they can get their hands on. Labisse fires Toddy and bans him from the club. Walking home, he spots Victoria in a restaurant. She invites him to join her. As neither of them can pay for the meal, she has a plan to dump a cockroach in her salad to avoid paying, but it escapes and mayhem ensues.

The duo runs through the rain to Toddy's, and he invites her to stay when she discovers the rain has shrunken and damaged her decrepit clothing. The next morning, Richard shows up to collect his things. Victoria, who is wearing his suit and hat, hides in Toddy's closet. When Richard opens the closet door, she punches him, breaking his nose before finally kicking him out. Seeing this, Toddy is struck with the inspiration of passing Victoria off as a man and presenting her to Andre Cassell, the most successful talent agent in Paris, as a female impersonator.

Cassell accepts her as Count Victor Grazinski, a gay Polish female impersonator and Toddy's new boyfriend. Cassell gets her a booking in a nightclub show and invites a collection of club owners to the opening. Among the guests is King Marchand, a Chicago gangster, and his ditzy blonde moll Norma Cassidy and burly bodyguard Mr. Bernstein, also known as Squash. Victoria is an immediate hit, and King is smitten, but he is shocked when she "reveals" herself to be a man at the end of the act. King, however, is convinced that "Victor" is not a man.

After Norma violently attacks King during a quarrel, he sends her back to the United States. Determined to uncover the truth, King sneaks into Victoria and Toddy's suite and confirms his suspicion when he spies her getting into the bath. Back in Chicago, Norma, still angry over being dumped, tells King's business partner Sal Andretti that King is having an affair with a man. King invites Victoria, Toddy, and Cassell to Chez Lui. Another major fight breaks out. Squash and Toddy are both arrested, along with many of the club clientele, but King and Victoria manage to escape. King kisses Victoria, pretending that he does not care about Victoria's assumed gender.

Squash returns to the suite and catches King in bed with Victoria. King tries to explain, but then Squash reveals he himself is gay. Victoria and King argue over whether or not the relationship could work and Victoria discovers that King is not really a gangster but someone who pretends to be in order to stay in the nightclub business, leading Victoria to point out that they are both pretending to be something they are not. Victoria returns to her room and finds Squash in bed with Toddy.

Meanwhile, Labisse hires a private investigator, Charles Bovin, to tail and investigate Victor. Victoria and King attempt to live together for a while, but keeping up her deception strains the relationship to the breaking point, and King ends it.

At the same time that Victoria has decided to give up the persona of Victor in order to be with King, Sal arrives and demands that King transfer his share of the business to Sal for a fraction of what it is actually worth. Squash tells Victoria what is happening, and she shows Norma that she is really a woman, saving King's stake. That night at the club, Cassell tells Toddy and Victoria that Labisse has lodged a police complaint against him and "Victor" for perpetrating a public fraud. After checking for himself, the inspector tells Labisse that the performer he saw in the room, after opening the door, is a man and that Labisse is an idiot.

In the end, Victoria joins King in the club as her real self. The announcer says that Victor is going to perform, but instead of Victoria, Toddy masquerades as "Victor". After an intentionally disastrous but ultimately hilarious performance, Toddy claims that this is his last performance.

####Viena and the Fantomes####
A roadie travels across the United States with a punk band during the 1980s.

####Viva Las Vegas####
Lucky Jackson (Elvis) goes to Las Vegas, Nevada to participate in the city's first annual Grand Prix Race. However, his race car, an Elva Mark VI Maserati, is in need of a new engine in order to compete in the event.

Lucky raises the necessary money in Las Vegas, but he loses it when he is shoved into the pool by the hotel's young swimming instructor, Rusty Martin (Ann-Margret). Lucky then has to work as a waiter at the hotel to replace the lost money to pay his hotel bill, as well as enter the hotel's talent contest in hopes of winning a cash prize sizable enough to pay for his car's engine.

During all this time, Lucky attempts to win the affections of Rusty.  His main competition arrives in the form of Count Elmo Mancini (Cesare Danova) and his Ferrari 250 GT Berlinetta. Mancini attempts to win both the Grand Prix and the affections of Rusty. Rusty soon falls in love with Lucky, and immediately tries to change him into what she wants.

####Wabash Avenue####
Ruby Summers (Betty Grable) is a burlesque queen in a successful dance hall in 1892 Chicago. The owner of the dance hall Mike (Phil Harris) has cheated his ex-partner Andy Clark (Victor Mature) out of a half interest in the business. Andy schemes to potentially ruin Mike and also hopes to make Ruby a classy entertainer, as well as his own girl.

####Walter Wanger's Vogues of 1938####
A successful fashion designer life, beset at home by his shrewish wife and at work by his competitors, has become even more complicated when one of his customers, a bride-to-be, jilts her wealthy husband and comes to him looking for a job—and possibly romance.

####We're Not Dressing####
Spoiled socialite Doris Worthington (Lombard) is sailing the Pacific with her friend Edith (Merman) and her Uncle Hubert (Errol), while being courted by Prince Michael (Milland) and Prince Alexander (Henry). She is bored, however, and finds entertainment in verbal sparring with one of the sailors, Stephen Jones (Crosby). During one of their battles, Doris slaps Stephen, who retaliates by kissing her and gets fired. In a drunken accident, Uncle Hubert runs the yacht onto a reef in the fog. Stephen rescues the unconscious Doris as the others flee the capsized ship, and everyone makes it to the tropical island although the princes claim credit for Doris's rescue. Unfortunately, the only person with any survival skills is Stephen, and the socialites are quick to demand that he gather food and build shelter. Stephen attempts to divide up the work but the haughty passengers snub his leadership so he fends for himself. The smells from Stephen's dinner of mussels and coconuts soon entice the hungry passengers to gather their own food; all except Doris, who tricks Stephen to get his food and gets slapped in turn. The group is forced to cooperate, although Doris remains indignant and infuriated.

Doris discovers that there are other people on the island when she falls prey to a lion trap in the jungle: zany Gracie (Allen) and scientific husband George (Burns) live on the other side of the not-so-deserted isle. She refuses their offer to stay in favor of getting even with Stephen. Doris arranges for some tools and clothes to float past Stephen, who is elated at his "discovery" and quickly builds a house. The couple admit their love that evening but feel mismatched.

Two rescue boats arrive. In the hubbub, Stephen finds out that the clothes and tools came from Doris and is angry at being the butt of the joke. Stephen takes a different boat than Doris. As Doris watches the princes resume their womanizing ways on board ship, she realizes she misses Stephen. She changes ships to join him, for better or for worse.

####When You're in Love####
Jimmy Hudson (Cary Grant) is a vagabond American artist in Mexico who can't pay his hotel bill.  Louise Fuller (Grace Moore) is an acclaimed classical singer recently expelled from the U.S. to Mexico on an expired visa, and desperate to get back in. She hires Hudson to marry her so that she can regain entry to the United States in time to give a benefit performance, stipulating that he must divorce her within six months to receive his final payment. Hudson agrees only because he sees something special in her, but thinks she has lost her way both personally and artistically in fame, her entourage, and her career. Once they have returned to the country and gone their separate ways, Hudson begins pursuing her, hoping to bridge their differences by drawing her from her own gilded world into his, and thus to turn their sham marriage into something real.

####White Christmas####
On Christmas Eve in Europe in 1944, at the height of World War II, former Broadway star Captain Bob Wallace and aspiring performer Private Phil Davis entertain the 151st division with a soldier's show. The men have just received word their beloved Major General Thomas F. Waverly has been relieved of his command. Waverly arrives and delivers an emotional farewell. The men send him off with a rousing chorus of "The Old Man". After Waverly departs, enemy bombers attack the area and everyone takes cover. Phil pulls Bob away from a collapsing wall and is wounded by debris. Bob asks how he can pay back Phil for saving his life, and Phil suggests they become a duo act. Bob is not fond of the idea, but feels obliged to agree.

After the war, the two make it big, first as performers, then as producers, launching a hit musical, "Playing Around". They receive a letter supposedly from their old Mess Sergeant, Ben "Freckle Face" Haynes, asking them to view his sisters' act. They watch Betty and Judy sing at Novello's, a Florida nightclub. Phil, who likes to play matchmaker, notices Bob is interested in Betty. After the performance, the four meet, and Phil and Judy immediately hit it off. Betty and Bob, however, argue about Bob's cynicism, and the fact it was actually Judy who wrote the letter instead of Ben.

Finding out from Judy that the girls' landlord is falsely suing them for a damaged rug, and has even gone so far as to call the police to get his money, Phil gives them tickets he and Bob had purchased to spend Christmas in New York City. Bob and Phil improvise a performance to buy the girls time, then flee to the train, where they now have to sit up in the Club Car, much to Bob's chagrin.

The girls convince Phil and Bob to forgo New York and spend Christmas with them in Pine Tree, Vermont, where they are booked as performers. Upon arriving in Vermont, they find all the tourists have left due to no snow and unseasonably warm weather. They arrive at the empty Columbia Inn and are aghast to discover that General Waverly is the landlord of the hotel, has sunk his life savings into it, and is on the verge of bankruptcy. Phil and Bob decide to invite some of the cast of "Playing Around" to Pine Tree to stage a show to draw in the guests, and include Betty and Judy in the show. Betty and Bob's romance starts to bloom.

Later, Bob discovers Waverly received a humiliating rejection letter to his request to rejoin the army. Bob determines to prove to the General he is not forgotten, and calls up Ed Harrison, another old Army buddy who now has his own variety show, for help. Ed suggests they put the general on the show and make a big scene of his misfortune and Bob's kindness, which would be free advertising for Bob and Phil. Bob strongly rejects the idea. Unfortunately, the housekeeper Emma eavesdrops on the other phone for the first half of the conversation. She relays Ed's idea to Betty, who becomes suddenly cold towards a baffled Bob.

Phil and Judy stage a phony engagement, thinking Betty is trying to avoid romance because she does not want to leave Judy unprotected. However, this backfires when Betty accepts a gig in New York and leaves. Phil and Judy admit the truth to Bob, who becomes enraged and hurries to New York to tell Betty. They partially reconcile, but Bob meets up with Harrison before he has a chance to find out what really was bothering her. Betty sees Bob go on Harrison's show and invite the entire 151st division to secretly join him at Pine Tree to surprise General Waverly, at Bob and Phil's expense. Realizing she was mistaken, Betty returns to Vermont just in time to be in the show.

Once again on Christmas Eve, the soldiers surprise General Waverly with another rousing chorus of "The Old Man" when he arrives at the show, bringing him to tears. During the performance, Betty and Bob become engaged, and Judy and Phil decide to go through with their own engagement. As everyone sings "White Christmas", a thick snowfall at last blankets Vermont.

####Why Do Fools Fall in Love####
Lymon was 13 years old when the teenage group Frankie Lymon & the Teenagers erupted from radios and jukeboxes with their 1956 hit "Why Do Fools Fall in Love?" and appeared in the movie "Rock, Rock, Rock" (1956).

After "Mr. Rock and Roll" (1957), Lymon started a solo singing career, but it all fell apart. Lymon's career was over by the time he was 18 years old, and he died of a heroin overdose seven years later.

Jumping from the 1950s to the 1960s, the film traces the rise and fall of Lymon (Larenz Tate) in a series of flashbacks as courtroom claims on Lymon's royalties are outlined by three women: Zola Taylor (Halle Berry) of the R&B group The Platters; Elizabeth Waters (Vivica A. Fox), a petty thief from Philadelphia; and schoolteacher Emira Eagle (Lela Rochon). Ending credits show the real Frankie Lymon singing his song "Goody Goody".

Little Richard also makes a courtroom appearance, while Miguel A. Nunez Jr. portrays Little Richard in scenes set in the 1950s.

The film ends with Emira winning Frankie's estate.

####Wonder Bar####
"Wonder Bar" is set in a Parisian nightclub, with the stars playing the 'regulars' at the club. The movie revolves around two main story points, a romance and a more serious conflict with death, and several minor plots. All of the stories are enlivened from time to time by extravagant musical numbers. The more serious story revolves around Captain Von Ferring (Robert Barrat), a German military officer. Ferring has gambled on the stock market and lost, now broke after dozens of failed investments, he is at the Wonder Bar to try and pull a one-night stand before killing himself the following day. Al Wonder (Al Jolson) knows about Ferring's plan.

Meanwhile, an elaborate romance is unfolding. The bar's central attraction is the Latin lounge dancing group led by Inez (Dolores del Río). Al Wonder has a secret attraction to Inez, who has a burning passion for Harry (Ricardo Cortez). However, Harry is two-timing her with Liane (Kay Francis), who is married to the famous French banker Renaud (Henry Kolker). The story comes to a climax when Inez finds out that Harry and Liane plan to run away together and head to the United States. Inez, in a haze of jealousy, kills Harry.

Subplots are much lighter in nature. They involve several drunken routines by two businessmen (Hugh Herbert and an uncredited Hobart Cavanaugh) and Al Wonder's various narrations as emcee of the floor show and manager of the club.

####Words and Music####
Two young college students, Phil and Pete, compete for the love of a pretty girl named Mary, and also to win the $1500 prize in a song-writing contest to write the best show tune for the annual college revue. The two men each ask Mary to sing for them, but eventually, she chooses Phil as her beau, and it is he who also has the winning song.

Although the film was largely devoid of much plot line, as was typical of musical revue pictures of the period, there is a great deal of singing and dancing. Many of Lois Moran's numbers were actually footage that was cut from the film "Fox Movietone Follies of 1929", which were edited out when the film was found to be too long. This film was created to make use of the deleted scenes, and so was fashioned around Moran's singing talent. Songs include: "Too Wonderful for Words" (William Kernell, Dave Stamper, Paul Gerard Smith, Edmund Joseph), "Stepping Along" (Kernell), "Shadows" (Con Conrad, Sidney D. Mitchell, Archie Gottler).

####The Yanks Are Coming####
During World War II singer Bob Reynolds leaves his band to enlist in the US Army.  His band soon follows him where the Army uses the group to put on a show for the troops.

####You Can't Run Away from It####
Because she married an international playboy, Ellie Andrews (June Allyson) is kidnapped by her own father, Texas cattleman A. A. Andrews (Charles Bickford). She escapes, managing to evade his nationwide search for her with the help of Peter Warne (Jack Lemmon), a jobless reporter, who sees himself getting the biggest story of the year - until he and Ellie fall in love. When Ellie suspects Peter has sold her out, she returns home. Realizing his daughter really loves the newspaperman, Andrews tries to persuade Ellie to run away again, this time from her own wedding ceremony. Who will Ellie choose, her husband or the man who has stolen her heart?

####You Were Never Lovelier####
Robert "Bob" Davis (Fred Astaire) is a well-known American dancer with a weakness for betting on the horses. After he loses his money gambling in Buenos Aires, he goes looking for a job with Eduardo Acuña, the wealthy owner of a nightclub. Acuña, however, does not wish to see him. Bob's friend, bandleader Xavier Cugat, invites him to perform at the wedding of Acuña's eldest daughter, Julia, Acuña insists his daughters must wed in order of age, from oldest to youngest. Maria (Rita Hayworth) is next in line to get married but refuses to, much to the disappointment of her two younger sisters, Cecy and Lita, who both have boyfriends and want to get married as soon as possible.

During Julia's wedding reception, Bob is attracted to Maria, but his advances are rebuffed by Maria, who refuses to talk to him. While talking with Acuña, Bob remarks that Maria's personality is like "the inside of a refrigerator". Aware of his younger daughters' plight, Acuña works out a plan: sending orchids and anonymous love notes from a secret admirer to Maria to help get her in the mood. One day, when Bob once again tries to see Acuña at his office, Acuña orders the unseen Bob, mistakenly assuming him to be a bellboy, to deliver the latest note and flower. Maria, who by now is in love and eagerly awaiting the next love letter from her secret admirer, sees Bob dropping off the note and flower and assumes that he is her admirer. When Maria sees Bob at her father's office, she asks her father to introduce them and invite Bob to dinner. At the dinner, after Mrs. Acuña almost shoots Bob, so Maria invites Bob to the garden, where they dance (I'm Old Fashioned). Finding that Maria is truly in love with Bob, Mr. Acuña makes a deal with Bob: in exchange for a contract to perform at the club (at some later, unspecified date), Bob will court Maria and repel her with his "obnoxious" personality.
But despite Bob's efforts to disappoint Maria, the two quickly fall in love.

With his plan gone awry, Acuña orders Bob to leave Buenos Aires. At the Acuña's 25th anniversary, Mr. Acuna plans to compose a farewell love note on his behalf while Cecy and Lita try to separate Bob and Maria, but fail. Mr. Acuña's wife sees him writing the note in his office and accuses him of cheating on her with another Maria, her dear friend Maria Castro. While Mr. Acuña tries to defend himself, Bob and Maria come into the office, where Bob has to confess that he hasn't been writing the love-letters to Acuña's daughter, disappointing Maria, who apologizes to Maria Castro.

Impressed by Bob's behavior, Acuña grants him permission to begin dating Maria. After repeated deliveries of flowers fail to impress Maria, Bob asks for Mr. Acuña's help, who tells him about Lochinvar, a fictional knight who was Maria's first love interest. Bob imitates him and tries to dance, which impresses Maria who decides to forgive Bob and stay with him.

####You'll Never Get Rich####
Theater owner and womanizer Martin Cortland (Robert Benchley) asks for the help of his choreography manager Robert Curtis (Fred Astaire) to impress beautiful head-strong dancer Sheila (Rita Hayworth) in his classes. Robert is impressed by Sheila's attitude, which one of the dancers, Margo, finds remarkable as Robert is not usually impressed by his dancers so easily. Sheila goes on to visit Martin at his office, where he presents her with a diamond bracelet, which was originally for Martin's wife, for whom Martin bought a back-scratcher for instead. Sheila thanks Mr. Cortland, but leaves the bracelet in the bag.
When Mrs. Cortland arrives, she finds the bracelet with a note for Sheila, and accuses her husband of cheating on her. Martin once again asks for Robert's help to pretend he and Sheila are dating and that the bracelet was a present from him to her.

Robert takes Sheila to a restaurant where the two dance together. While Robert is attracted by Sheila, Sheila believes that Robert is deeply in love with her and returns his affections. When the Cortlands arrive, Robert presents Sheila with the bracelet once again, for which she unexpectedly kisses him for it, shocking Martin and his wife. The next day, Robert finds out the newspapers are reporting on him and Sheila, accuses Martin of being behind this, and wants to join the army to get out of trouble.

At Sheila's home, Captain Tom Barton (John Hubbard), Sheila's potential boyfriend, invites Sheila and her Aunt Louise (Marjorie Gateson) to visit him and his mother (Ann Shoemaker) on his Army base. The same day when Cap. Tom arrives, Robert wants to talk to Sheila about the newspaper.  Sheila wants to get revenge on Robert for lying to her and makes a plan involving Tom and Aunt Louise. While Sheila is "talking" to Robert, Tom pretends to shoot Sheila, in which Robert takes the opportunity to leave.
Robert gets into the army (after faking his weight) where he quickly befriends fellow draftees Swivel Tongue (Cliff Nazarro) and Kewpie Blain (Guinn "Big Boy" Williams), and clearly stands out from the rest of the army with his irreverent behaviour and tap-dancing.

Curtis finds himself imprisoned in the guardhouse after a series of confusions, but when he finds out that Sheila is around, pretends to be army captain and tricks Aunt Louise and begs Sheila to come visit him in the guardhouse, to which Sheila agrees.

Martin appears on the base to produce a show for the enlisted men and (at his request) is assigned Curtis as his assistant, who offers Martin the use of his apartment in town and insists that Sheila be included as his partner in the show. However, Martin is now in pursuit of another dancer, Sonya (Osa Massen), and has promised the lead to her.
Robert refuses to do the show with anyone else but Sheila and tells Martin to try the both out in a rehearsal. Martin agrees and Robert and Sheila dance (So Near, And Yet So Far) where Sheila understands that her feelings for Robert are not completely gone.
After the rehearsal, Tom tells Sheila that he is being transferred to Panama and asks Sheila to marry him. Sheila says she will think about it, and tells Aunt Louise that she thinks Robert will propose to her that night and that she still loves him.

Robert invites Sheila to Martin's apartment, where he tells Sonya to hide so Sheila doesn't think Robert is cheating on her. Robert gives her a diamond gift, which is addressed to Sonya by Martin, angering both Sheila and Robert.
Sheila refuses to perform with Robert, which causes the soldiers to come up with a We Want Sheila rebellion. Finally, Sheila agrees, so Robert puts his plan to work: in the show, the leads get married, so why not get a real priest and the two will be really married? And the plan is put to work. In the end of the show, a real priest marries them off, unknown to Sheila.
After the show ends, Robert kisses Sheila and announces that the priest wasn't an actor, but a real priest, to the audiences shock.

Martin confesses his machinations to Sheila, who embraces him in relief and calls on her new husband in the guardhouse. The jilted Captain Barton generously arranges for Robert's release for his honeymoon; the film ends with Swiv and Blain's inept attempt to break into the guardhouse to free Robert, not aware that he is already on his way to the honeymoon with Sheila.

####Young Man of Manhattan####
Jealousy comes between a young couple of newspaper people when the wife earns more money and becomes more famous than her husband. Especially his alcohol addiction becomes the dividing element, whereas the young Puff Randolph girl chasing him, and her editor falling in love with her are merely elements that challenge their love.

####The Discovery####
An interviewer questions Thomas Harbor, the man who scientifically proved the existence of an afterlife, a discovery that led to an extremely high suicide rate. The interviewer asks Harbor if he feels responsible, and he says no. Directly after, a film crew member kills himself on air.

On the second anniversary of the discovery, Harbor's son Will travels on a ferry where he meets Isla. They have a conversation and Will notes Isla looks very familiar. He says he is upset people keep killing themselves, while Isla thinks it's an easy way out. Will shares a memory he had while being dead for a minute, where he saw a young boy at a beach.

Will's brother Toby picks him up and drives him to an isolated mansion where their father is continuing his research. Will notes the large number of helpers, who Toby says used to be suicidal and now have a new purpose. Will meets Lacey and Cooper, his father's aides. Thomas is periodically "put under" and revived while hooked to various machines. When they speak, Will blames Thomas for starting a cult and for the high suicide rate. Will announces his intention to get Thomas to recant his statement about the afterlife and stop the suicides.

Later, Will sees Isla on the beach preparing to commit suicide. He barely saves her and brings her to the mansion, where she is taken in. At a later meeting with the occupants, Thomas reveals his new work - a machine that can record what people see in the afterlife.

To test the machine, Toby, Will and Isla steal the corpse of Pat Phillips from the morgue. Will reveals to Isla the reason for his resentment towards Thomas: his mother killed herself when Thomas was too obsessed with his work to care about her.

Phillips' corpse is hooked to the machine, but nothing happens. After everyone leaves, Will undoes his earlier sabotage on the machine. Immediately the screen shows a video sequence of Pat Phillips driving to a hospital, visiting someone and fighting with a woman there. Will visits the hospital, but finds the hallway from the video gone.

During a meeting, Thomas confronts Lacey about revealing to others about the failed test and expels her from the mansion. Will shows Isla the recording, theorizing that the machine records memory rather than the afterlife. They find a record of Pat Phillips' father, who died in the hospital. Further investigations reveals the events in the recording don't match what actually happened. Pat never visited his dying father in the hospital.

Isla confides in Will that she had a son, who died while she was asleep. Isla and Will grow closer together and share a kiss, which is interrupted by Toby.

Together they rush to Thomas, who is hooked to the machine. They observe he is seeing the night their mother killed herself, except that Thomas stops her. They are able to revive Thomas, who concludes the afterlife is an alternate version of their existing life, only with different choices made. They agree to destroy the machine, as this revelation would provoke millions of suicides by people wanting to improve the lives they have. Thomas prepares to hold a speech, which is interrupted by Lacey shooting Isla, claiming she has just "relocated" her. Isla dies in Will's arms.

Later, a devastated Will hooks himself up with the machine. He arrives back on the ferry, where he meets Isla again, who states this is a memory. It is revealed Will is living in a memory loop trying to prevent Isla's death and he restarts on the ferry every time. Isla says he saved her and they both will move on now. Although Toby and Thomas try to revive Will, he dies, promising Isla to remember her.

Will stands on the beach, where he sees a little boy and gets him out of the water. The little boy's mother, Isla, arrives and thanks Will. They don't recognize each other. After she leaves, he walks away, but as he starts to recall who Isla is, he stops and slowly looks back.

####The In Between####
The opening scene is a traffic accident. Two young people lie on the road, the girl barely moving, the boy, motionless. Tessa wakes up in the hospital.

In a flashback set 182 days before, Tessa spends the morning taking photos in the coastal town, wandering into the local theater to watch a classic French film. Skylar, the other person at the movie, offers to translate. He is a true romantic, he and Tessa have very different views.

In a flashback set 102 days before, Tessa is encouraged to apply to the RISD for her photography skills. Later, while shooting a rowing meet, she finally finds Skylar again. They both obviously had been searching for each other. They spend the day together, and she shows him the world through her eyes. At the Empyrean, an abandoned honeymooners hotel he teaches her to waltz and they kiss. He tells her he’ll be back at the end of the month to stay for the summer.

In the present, Tessa is back at school, and is reminded of the RISD deadline. Later, going home, she throws out her developing materials. Her adoptive dad reminds her that her mother never stuck to anything. Dreaming of Skylar, she wakes up to see her Robert Doisneau print of Le baiser de l'hôtel de ville.
Flashback: July 4. After the fireworks, she shows him her darkroom, portfolio and opens up about her mother flaking out, forcing her into the foster care system. They go out on a boat during the day, he shows her how to row, he declares his love and they make love on the shore.

Tessa tells her friend Shannon about The In Between, the concept of a window of time in which someone recently deceased needs to have a final contact before moving on. Sitting the SAT, weirdly Skylar moves her hand on her answer sheet to draw what seems to be a non-sensical scribble. Then their song, ‘Never tear us apart’ comes up simultaneously on everyone’s silenced mobiles.

Flashback: 11 days before the accident. Skylar angers Tessa when he puts a photo she gifted him in a photo exhibit to show her talent. Her inability to express her feelings comes up. He wants her to realize they could have a future and she continues to hold back. Photographing her adoptive mother, she’s advised to try to admit her feelings out loud.

Shannon helps Tessa try to channel Skylar after reading several books. First they try with a planchette, scrying, and instrumental trans-communication Electronic voice phenomenon which, unbeknownst to them, works on the TV. Getting in her adoptive mother’s car, the built-in GPS shows her the same route she had scribbled on her SAT sheet. So, she blows off returning the car, following the route, arriving to the In Between author Doris she met in the hospital. She suggests Tessa seek him where they had their strongest moments.
Flashback: 5 days before the accident. Tessa discovers Skylar has decided to go to Oregon to support his father for the year, leaving her on the East coast. She takes it as a sign, as she finally has applied to RISD and was about to express her love, and she breaks it off.

After buying special photography equipment, Shannon drives Tessa to the places she and Skylar had most closely connected, hoping to catch his image/connect. Finally they do connect at The Empyrean, but not completely, and he shatters a mirror trying to reach her. The police catch up with her there, traced through her mobile. At home, her adoptive parents are on top of her, she collapses, and in the hospital she’s told her heart needs to be repaired the next day. Shannon sneaks her out, with Skylar’s help (he manipulates some electronics, distracting the nurses), who then guides them to the site of the accident.

In a flashback to the night of the accident, Shannon convinces Tessa to catch Skylar before he leaves. The timelines overlap. As paramedics attend Tessa’s collapsed body, reunited with Skylar briefly, they are in Paris, in black and white, and mimic the Doisneau print Le baiser… They are back at a house on the beach, and she hears from far off her adoptive mom calling her back. Tearfully, she reminds him that ´love never dies’, deciding to go back to live.

In a mid-credits scene, Tessa and Skylar are wandering around the beach drawing stick figures on sand.

####Moonshot####
In 2049, Walt works as a barista on a college campus. His dream to go to space becomes attainable with the introduction of the Kovi Industries Student Mars Program, an organization that sends college students to Mars. The program, however, has rejected his offer 37 times due to his lack of knowledge and expertise to further humanity's exploration of the Red Planet. At a college party, he accidentally breaks the Wifi-orb of Sophie, a no-nonsense  student, whose boyfriend, Calvin, is on Mars. While at the party, he also falls in love with another student, Ginny, who is sent to Mars the next morning.

A few weeks later, Sophie appears at Walt's cafe in tears due to Calvin accepting a longer stay on Mars, so Walt convinces her to buy a ticket to travel on the next shuttle launch. As she approaches the launch gate, Walt manipulates her into helping him sneak on board a space shuttle by pretending to be a family member but freaks out when they must claim to be in a relationship on board the shuttle to keep his identity secret.

Over the course of the trip to Mars, the two grow closer; Walt learns more about Calvin as he claims his identity, and Sophie learns the real Calvin may have been putting her second behind his dreams of terraforming Mars to become more hospitable. During an onboard presentation, Walt is forced to give a presentation about terraforming, a topic he knows nothing about, but convinces two passengers to get married as his speech about love moves the audience, Sophie included.

As the shuttle approaches Mars, she tells him that she is staying with Calvin and will not help him get to Mars anymore, causing Walt to call her a coward. On Mars, Sophie and Calvin reunite while security arrests Walt. Awaiting his trial, Ginny tells Walt that she found someone new on Mars due to their one-night romance and his subsequent need to find her too off-putting for her to handle. The next day, Walt meets the leader of the Mars program, Leon Kovi, who tells Walt that his company knew about everything he was doing through security cameras on the shuttle and let it slide as a security test, with the program's board of trustees planning to sue Walt once he returned to Earth. Due to his dislike of the board, Kovi had leaked the security footage back on Earth which went viral online. To avoid backlash, Leon offers Walt a contract to avoid any legal problems and stay on Mars if he promotes the company, to which Walt agrees.

As his life as a barista and online sensation unfold, Walt realizes he is not happy living on Mars. Similarly, realizing she has grown apart from Calvin and his goals, Sophie breaks up with him and boards a ship back to Earth. Seeing his life becoming a pawn for Kovi, Walt also boards the shuttle back to Earth, where he reunites with Sophie and the two share a kiss.

####Needle in a Timestack####
In the near future, "time jaunting" (time travel) is possible for the very rich. Time shifts that result from these time jumps are commonplace, and whole industries have risen up to help people store their memories.

Nick Mikkelsen, an architect, is married to Janine, a photographer. They seem happy, but after being struck by the third time shift in a year, Nick starts to feel something is off. He suspects they previously had a dog, whereas now they have a cat. He blames the shifting on Janine's ex-husband Tommy (also a college friend of Nick's), who he thinks is changing the past to get Janine back. Janine is no longer in love with Tommy but she is getting annoyed with Nick's obsession with him. Nick goes to see Tommy to "catch up" but also to find out if he has been messing with the past. Tommy does not reveal if he is, but says he wishes things had gone differently in his marriage. Nick starts to store his memories in one of the memory companies in preparation for future time shifts. Nick's sister Zoe tells Nick that her partner Sabila died in a rock climbing accident.

Nick tells Janine he is going to see Tommy but then he discovers she also went to see him. After being mad at each other for a few days, Nick asks Janine to go away with him, to just keep traveling until there are no places left. She agrees, but as they are leaving, a huge time shift flows over them. Nick suddenly finds himself driving in a car, alone. He immediately tries to call Janine, who is not in his contact list, and he cannot find her by her maiden name either. A few minutes later, Janine calls Nick, and tells him they were married and had a cat, but she cannot remember where they lived. She says she has been with Tommy for nine years; Tommy was successful in changing the past. Nick lets his car take him home, and he is now married to Alex. Alex can sense that Nick is different, but over time he seems to "remember" their life together, he says the same sweet things to Alex that he had said to Janine. Zoe tells Nick that her partner, Sabila, is alive again, but later admits that she actually had died, but she paid all her money to time jaunt and change the past so Sabila would not go rock climbing that day.

Nick decides to time jaunt to a time 13 years prior in an effort to make things right. In the past, he tells Tommy that he is breaking up with Alex, and persuades him to go after her. He leaves a note for himself in the past, saying Alex has fallen in love with Tommy, and not to worry but he will find the person he is meant to be with, and he will know her just by looking at her.

Nick comes back to the present to find he lives alone, and apparently he has been very withdrawn. Zoe calls Tommy, who calls Nick and convinces him to attend a party. Everyone there says they are happy at how everything has turned out for all of them, and that they have missed Nick. As Nick starts to leave, he sees Janine, there as a photographer for the party. Their eyes meet, and something inside of both of them knows: there is something between them. Nick turns to leave again, but he stops himself.

####The Nutty Professor####
Professor Julius Kelp is a nerdy, scruffy, buck-toothed, accident-prone, socially awkward university professor whose experiments in the classroom laboratory are unsuccessful and highly destructive. When a football-playing bully embarrasses and attacks him, Kelp decides to "beef up" by joining a local gym. Kelp's lack of physical strength leads him to seek a solution in his specialty of chemistry. He invents a serum that turns him into Buddy Love: a handsome, suave, charming and brash girl-chasing hipster.

This new personality gives him the self-confidence to pursue one of his students, Stella Purdy. Although she resents Love, she finds herself strangely attracted to him. Buddy wows the crowd with his jazzy, breezy musical delivery and poised demeanor at the Purple Pit, a nightclub where the students hang out. He also mocks a bartender and waitress and punches a student. The formula wears off at inopportune times, often to Kelp's humiliation.

Although Kelp knows that his alternate persona is a bad person, he cannot prevent himself from continually taking the formula as he enjoys the attention that Love receives. As Buddy performs at the annual student dance the formula starts to wear off. His real identity now revealed, Kelp gives an impassioned speech, admitting his mistakes and seeking forgiveness. Kelp says that the one thing he learned from being someone else is that if you don't like yourself, you can't expect others to like you. Purdy meets Kelp backstage, and confesses that she prefers Kelp over Buddy Love.

Eventually, Kelp's formerly timid father chooses to market the formula (a copy of which Kelp had sent to his parents' home for safekeeping), endorsed by the deadpan president of the university who proclaims, "It's a gasser!" Kelp's father makes a pitch to the chemistry class, and the students all rush forward to buy the new tonic. In the confusion Kelp and Purdy slip out of the class. Armed with a marriage license and two bottles of the formula, they elope.

During the short closing credits, each of the characters comes out and bows down to the camera, and when Jerry Lewis, still portraying Kelp, comes out and bows, he trips and falls over the camera, causing the picture to go white, as if Lewis broke the film being projected at that moment.

####Passengers####
The "Avalon", a sleeper ship transporting 5,000 colonists and 258 crew members in hibernation pods, is traveling from Earth to the planet Homestead II, a 120-year journey. After only 30 years, an asteroid collision damages the ship despite its defense systems, causing a malfunction that awakens passenger James "Jim" Preston, a mechanical engineer, 90 years too early.

After a year of isolation, with only an android barman named Arthur for company, Jim grows despondent and contemplates suicide until he notices Aurora Lane, a beautiful young woman inside a pod. He views her video profile and is smitten. He considers reviving her for companionship, but struggles doing so, knowing it is morally wrong and will circumvent her intended life on their destination planet. He eventually awakens her, letting her believe it was also a malfunction. He tells Arthur to conceal what he has done. Aurora, devastated at having to live out her life on the ship, unsuccessfully tries to re-enter hibernation. Resigned to the situation, Aurora, a writer and journalist, begins writing about her experience.

Over the next year, the two fall in love. Just before Jim intends to propose to Aurora, Arthur inadvertently reveals the truth about her awakening. A distraught and enraged Aurora berates, shuns, and even physically attacks Jim. She furiously rejects his apologies and avoids contact with him.

Sometime later, another pod failure awakens Gus Mancuso, a deck chief officer. Using Gus' personnel code, the group accesses the ship's bridge (which Jim unsuccessfully tried to breach). They discover multiple cascading failures throughout the ship's systems, but the computer does not reveal the cause. If left unrepaired, the ship will inevitably fail, causing the passengers and crew to perish. Gus realizes that Jim awakened Aurora; Gus does not condone Jim's actions but understands, and tells Aurora that a "drowning man" (meaning the suicidal Jim) will grab onto any lifeline. When Gus falls critically ill, the ship's automated medical suite, the Autodoc, diagnoses pansystemic necrosis and gives him hours to live. Gus attributes it to his hibernation pod's multiple failures. Before dying, Gus gives Jim and Aurora his ID badge and employee code to access crew-only areas, so he and Aurora can try to repair the ship.

Jim and Aurora find hull breaches from the asteroid collision two years earlier. The computer module administering the ship's fusion reactor power plant has been critically damaged, causing the cascading malfunctions as the other systems' computing power was diverted in an attempt to maintain it. They replace the damaged module, but when the computer attempts to vent the reactor to extinguish a runaway plasma reaction, the exterior vent fails. Jim is forced to spacewalk and vent the plasma from outside, using the manual controls in the vent tube.

Jim discovers that he must remain in the tube to keep the vent open while Aurora initiates venting from inside the ship. Revealing her enduring feelings for him, she admits she is terrified of losing him and being left alone. Jim improvises a heat shield and survives the venting but is blasted out into space as his tether snaps, and his damaged spacesuit begins losing oxygen. Aurora retrieves a clinically dead Jim from space and resuscitates him in the Autodoc. The "Avalon", its reactor repaired, returns to normal operations.

After burying Gus in space, Jim learns the Autodoc can function as a hibernation pod for one person; Aurora can go back into hibernation for the remainder of the voyage. Realizing she would never see Jim again, she chooses to remain awake with him. He presents her with the makeshift engagement ring he made earlier, which she accepts.

Eighty-eight years later, the ship's crew awakens on schedule, shortly before arrival at Homestead II. In the ship's grand concourse, they discover a huge tree with trailing vines, lush vegetation, flying birds, and a small cabin. A recording of Aurora's story describes the wonderful life she and Jim shared on the "Avalon".

####Starman####
The "Voyager 2" space probe, launched in 1977, carries a gold phonographic disk with a message of peace, inviting alien civilizations to visit Earth. The probe is intercepted by an alien planet, which then sends a small scout vessel to establish first contact with Earth. Instead of greeting the alien craft, the U.S. government shoots it down. Crashing in Chequamegon Bay, Wisconsin, the lone alien occupant, looking like a floating ball of glowing energy, finds the home of recently widowed Jenny Hayden. The alien uses a lock of hair from her deceased husband, Scott, to clone a body for himself as Jenny watches in terror. The alien "Starman" has seven small silver spheres with him which provide energy to perform miraculous feats. He uses the first to send a message to his people stating that Earth is hostile and his spacecraft has been destroyed. He arranges to rendezvous with them in three days' time. He then uses the second sphere to create a holographic map of the United States, coercing Jenny into taking him to the rendezvous in Arizona.

Initially hostile to and frightened of him, Jenny attempts to escape. Having a very basic understanding of the English language from the "Voyager 2" disk, the Starman learns to communicate with Jenny and assures her that he means no harm. He explains that if he does not reach the rendezvous point, Arizona's Barringer Crater, in three days, he will die. Sympathetic but still wary, Jenny teaches him how to drive a car and use credit cards, so he can continue the journey alone. When he resurrects a dead deer, she is deeply moved and decides to stay with him. The authorities pursue the pair across the country. A police officer shoots and critically wounds Jenny. To escape, the Starman crashes their car into a gas tanker and uses another sphere to protect them from the explosion. They take refuge in a mobile home that is being towed. He uses another silver sphere to heal Jenny. After being assured that Jenny will recover, he proceeds to hitchhike toward Arizona without her, but Jenny manages to catch up to him while he and his driver are stopped at a roadblock. Reunited, they hitchhike together, resuming their journey towards the crater.

Later, while stowing away on a railroad boxcar, they have sex. The Starman tells Jenny, "I gave you a baby tonight." Jenny explains that she is infertile and cannot have children, but he assures her that she is pregnant. He explains that Scott is the posthumous father, as Starman used Scott's DNA to clone himself. As a child also of Starman, their son will possess all the Starman's knowledge and will grow up to be a teacher. Starman offers to stop the pregnancy if she wishes, but Jenny joyfully embraces him, accepting the gift. They accidentally travel too far on the train and arrive in Las Vegas. Jenny loses her wallet. The Starman uses one of their last quarters in a slot machine, which he manipulates to win the $500,000 jackpot. They buy a new car to complete their journey to Arizona.

National Security Agency director George Fox learns that the Starman's flight trajectory, prior to being shot down, was to the Barringer Crater and arranges to have the Army capture the Starman, dead or alive. SETI scientist Mark Shermin, another government official involved in the case, criticizes Fox's heavy-handed approach and reminds him that the Starman was invited to Earth. Appalled to learn that Fox is planning to vivisect the alien, Shermin then resolves to help the Starman escape rather than let Fox capture him.

Jenny and the slowly dying Starman reach the crater as Army helicopters pursue them. Just as they are surrounded, a large, spherical spaceship appears and descends into the crater. Light surrounds the couple and the Starman is fully healed immediately. As he prepares to leave, he tells Jenny he will never see her again. Jenny asks him to take her with him, but he says she would die on his world. He then gives her his last silver sphere, telling her that their son will know what to do with it. Jenny watches as the ship departs.

####Zoe####
In the not-too-distant future, the most cutting-edge technology has honed romantic relationships down to a science: A computerized test can determine the likelihood of successful partnership between two individuals, and androids—known as “synthetics”—have been designed as the ideal partners, ones who are completely understanding and will never leave. Zoe (Léa Seydoux) and Cole (Ewan McGregor) work in the research facility responsible for developing this technology. Zoe and Cole are friends but Zoe harbors a crush on him, and is disappointed when she takes the compatibility test and finds out they have a 0% compatibility. When she tells Cole this information, he gently tells her that she is a synthetic.

Synthetics had always been programmed to know they were synthetics, but Zoe was a new model and an experiment to see if a synthetic could pass as a human. Although Zoe has been implanted with false memories that she believed were her own, as in Blade Runner, it’s clear that Zoe is special as she has developed her own feelings. Cole gently takes Zoe in to the world with this new self-awareness, seeing her reactions, but also falling in love with her. He is wary of getting physical with her, but they eventually do. Zoe feels that Cole is holding back.

When Zoe is  hit by a car, exposing her synthetic intestines, it causes Cole to pull away from Zoe after repairing  her. Meanwhile, the AI company has shifted direction to releasing Benysol, a pill which gives the person taking it the feeling of being in love for several blissful hours. it’s a huge success, with people going to Benysol clubs and even hanging out in certain parks to meet partners they take it with. Cole and Zoe clearly miss each other, but they both take Benysol with multiple partners, which only leaves them feeling empty. Cole’s friends encourage him to be with Zoe, even though she’s synthetic, but he can’t do it. One day Zoe visits the AI lab and discovers a room full of Zoes, the next generation of her, Zoe 2.0. She realizes she doesn’t wish to live without Cole and visits the brothel where she asks the owner to shut her down. However, at the last minute she changes her mind and some of the brothel girls take her to her apartment, where Cole finds her and professes his love. She cries, which her model wasn’t supposed to be able to do.

####According to Matthew####
Father Mathew Pieris is an Anglican priest who is famous in his hometown. One day, after the daily communion, his wife Eunice Pieris introduces a very young couple who joined their church to him. They are skilled sportsman Randy Reynolds and his vivacious newly wed wife Daphne Reynolds who used to be a typist and a telephone operator before marriage. Father Pieris in return introduces them to their Cricket Captain Steven who is learning in the Police Academy to become a Police Officer and befriends them. One evening, Father Pieris suggests Eunice that they should hire Daphne as his Secretary. They recruit her the next day and she starts work by typing the book Father Pieris was writing. They also provide her accommodation in their own home. Meanwhile Randy joins the Cricket team and often discuss how good Father Pieris is to them with Steven, saying how he helped them to achieve some financial stability during difficult times. One day, after the end of work, Daphne herself thanks Father Pieris and provocatively tells him if he needs anything, not to hesitate but to ask.

Father Pieris is renowned as an Exorcist in the town an often called by distraught parents when their children, specially teenage girls start to show abnormal behavior. One night after returning home late after inspecting one of the girls who were unresponsive to their parents, Father Pieris takes a sneak peak at naked Daphne who is wiping her hair after a shower. Frightened, Daphne covers herself with the towel while Father Pieris flees. Next morning, Father Pieris gently caresses Daphne's shoulder while she types and she reciprocates by closing their office room door. This triggers Father Pieris to close the curtains of the window and they kiss and have mutual oral sex. Sister June who was teaching a group of children adjacent to the office room sees that the door and window is closed and grows deeply suspicious.

Father Pieris insists Eunice to visit their children in London. In the same time, Randy is also often out of town for Cricket practices with Steven. One rainy night after returning home late again after performing an exorcism to another teenage girl, Father Pieris and Daphne knowing well that they are alone unleash themselves and have passionate sexual intercourse. Their daily sexual relations escalate to the point where Father Pieris decides he should get rid of those who are in-between them. Eunice hears rumours of their affair and starts worrying with her children in London. Meanwhile Randy falls seriously ill and is diagnosed with severe Hypoglycemia. Father Pieris and Daphne regularly visits him in the hospital and he gradually progresses buy his situation mysteriously deteriorates and he dies. Eunice returns home and she too mysteriously falls ill and is admitted to the hospital, only to be found out that she also is suffering from severe Hypoglycemia. Her situation betters and worsens between her stays with her family members and with Father Pieris. But her condition further deteriorates and she falls into a coma.

In the meantime, while on duty, Dr. Terrance who administered her Dextrose realizing that she does not respond to it seeks a second opinion from fellow colleague Dr. Mohan who identifies that he too had a similar case a few months ago, where a non-diabetic and severe hypoglycemic patient (Randy) also had the same treatment and he eventually died. At a hunch, they realizes that Father Pieris is related to both the patients and informs their suspicion to District Medical Officer Dr. Ferry who assigns Detective Cruse of the Criminal Investigation Department to investigate on the circumstantial evidence. During the investigations Eunice Pieris dies.

Distraught, and following testimonies from his girlfriend and her friends that Father Pieris is notorious for molesting young girls and newly wed women during communions, Steven decides to do his own investigation and surreptitiously obtains crucial scientific evidence which corroborates District Medical Officer and Detective Cruse's suspicions. Father Pieris is apprehended and is charged with double murder. During the trial, plaintiff proves beyond a reasonable doubt that Father Pieris systematically and intentionally administered Euglocon laced chicken and beef liver to both Randy Reynolds and Eunice Pieris, and the cause of the Deaths were not Pancreatic cancer as indicated by the defendant. Father Mathew Pieris is convicted and is sentenced to Death.

####The Adjustment Bureau####
In 2006, Brooklyn Congressman David Norris unsuccessfully runs for the United States Senate. While rehearsing his concession speech, he meets Elise Sellas, and they share a passionate kiss. David does not get Elise's name before they are separated, but, inspired by her, he delivers an unusually candid speech that is well-received and makes him a favorite for the next Senate election.

A month later, Harry Mitchell receives an assignment from Richardson at Madison Square Park, which is near David's home. He is supposed to spill coffee on David's shirt by 7:05 a.m., forcing David to go home to change, but he falls asleep, so David catches his intended bus to his new job and meets Elise again. Before she gets off the bus, David gets her name and phone number.

David arrives at work before he was supposed to and finds his coworkers frozen and being examined by unfamiliar men, Richardson among them. He attempts to escape, but is incapacitated and taken to a warehouse. After some debate about what to do, Richardson reveals to David the existence of the "Adjustment Bureau", an organization that ensures people's lives proceed according to "the Plan" created by "the Chairman". He says David was not supposed to see Elise a second time, so he destroys the card with her phone number on it, and then he releases David, warning him that his memory and personality will be erased if he tells anyone about what he has learned.

Three years later, David spots Elise on the street. He gets off the bus and invites her to lunch, but Charlie (David’s campaign manager), after an adjustment initiated by Richardson, interrupts them with reminders that David is scheduled to announce he is running for another Senate seat. Richardson tries to prevent David and Elise from reuniting after the announcement, but David stubbornly persists and outruns Richardson to Elise's rehearsal with Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet, even though members of the Bureau have a way to teleport using ordinary doorways.

Richardson learns that David and Elise keep crossing paths because of remnants from earlier versions of the Plan in which they were meant to be together, and Thompson, a senior official in the Bureau, takes over David's case. He brings David back to the warehouse, where David argues he has the right to choose his own path through life, but Thompson says humans only have the appearance of free will, as the Bureau's experiments with withdrawing their influence resulted in the Dark Ages and the horrors of the first half of the twentieth century, respectively. Thompson tells David that being with Elise will keep him from his fate of becoming President of the United States, and being with David will keep Elise from becoming a world-famous dancer and choreographer. To prove he is serious, Thompson causes Elise to sprain her ankle, and David abandons her at the hospital to avoid ruining their futures.

Eleven months later, Charlie, David's campaign manager and lifelong best friend, alerts David to Elise's imminent wedding. Harry surreptitiously arranges to meet with David when it is raining, since water prevents the Bureau from tracking people. As David's "caseworker", Harry feels guilty about all of the negative things he has helped to make happen to David in support of the Plan, so he teaches David how to use doors to teleport and, hopefully, reach Elise before the Bureau can stop him. David finds Elise just before the wedding and tells her about the Bureau, proving what he says by teleporting with her. Agents of the Bureau pursue them all over New York City, and, eventually, David decides to try to plead his case directly to the Chairman. Elise chooses to accompany him, and they enter the Bureau's headquarters. Chased to the roof and surrounded, David and Elise declare their love and kiss. When they let go of each other, they are alone. Thompson appears, but he is interrupted by Harry, who presents the Chairman's newly-revised Plan for David and Elise, which is blank going forward. Harry commends David and Elise for their devotion and sends them away, speculating that the Chairman's true "plan" may be for people to fight for their free will and write their own destinies, like David and Elise did.

####Blood Ransom####
A young woman fights the monster she's becoming to save the life of the man she loves.

Crystal is a beautiful yet fragile girl in her early twenties. But something dark and brooding burns inside her and she fights to hold it back. She falls for the charms of the equally beautiful bad boy and criminal, Roman. He lures her into a life of “sin.” And she follows him. But when that life turns deadly, she regrets her choice. One day she wakes up and realizes that Roman has turned her into a monster. She is now trapped in a life she cannot escape. At least, no until she inadvertently finds a way out through a young nobody named Jeremiah, who works for Roman as a driver. She manages to “escape” from Roman through a foolish kidnapping plot that goes wrong. Jeremiah and Crystal subsequently begin a dangerous love affair and devise a crazy plan that can make her human again. But Roman sends his cold-blooded henchman, Bill, to hunt them down. Crystal is now faced with a deadly choice: she can kill Jeremiah to live, or follow an impossible plan that can turn her soul human again, so that she can be with the man with whom she has fallen in love.

####Bound####
Corky, a lesbian ex-con, is hired as a painter and plumber at an apartment building. She encounters Violet and Caesar, the couple who live next-door to the apartment she is renovating. While Caesar is gone, Violet deliberately drops an earring down the sink; the building owner sends Corky to retrieve it. Violet admits to purposely dropping the earring and starts to seduce Corky. They are interrupted by Caesar's arrival and Corky returns to work. When she leaves for the day, Violet follows her to her truck, and they have sex in Corky's apartment. The next morning, Violet tells Corky that Caesar is a money launderer for the Mafia and they have been together for five years.

Later, Violet overhears Caesar and his mob associates beating and torturing Shelly, a man who has been skimming money from the business. Upset by the violence, Violet confides to Corky that she wants to make a new life for herself, but that she needs her help. Knowing that Caesar will bring the nearly $2 million that Shelly embezzled back to the apartment, the two women hatch a scheme to steal the money. After Mafia boss Gino Marzzone's son Johnnie shoots and kills Shelly, Caesar returns to the apartment with a bag of bloody money. Angry at Johnnie for furiously killing Shelly and splattering blood everywhere, Caesar proceeds to wash, iron and hang the money to dry.

Violet explains to Corky that Caesar and Johnnie hate each other, and that Gino and Johnnie will be coming to pick up the money from Caesar. Corky devises a plan: when Caesar has finished counting the money, he will shower to unwind. While he does, Violet will purposely drop a bottle of Glenlivet scotch that Gino prefers and tell Caesar that she is going to buy more. As she leaves the apartment, Corky will enter, steal the money from a briefcase, and leave. Violet will then return with the scotch and tell Caesar that she just saw Johnnie leave. Suspicious, Caesar will check the briefcase, find the money gone, and assume Johnnie has taken it. Corky and Violet think Caesar will be forced to flee because Gino will assume he has been robbed by Caesar, not Johnnie.

When Caesar finds the money gone, he realizes Gino will think he stole it if he runs and decides to retrieve the money from Johnnie. Panicking, Violet threatens to leave, but Caesar forces her to stay, suspecting she and Johnnie may have stolen the money and framed him. Corky waits next-door with the money while Gino and Johnnie arrive. After Johnnie flirts with Violet and taunts him, Caesar pulls out a gun and tells Gino that his son stole the money. He kills Gino, Johnnie and Roy, Gino's bodyguard. Caesar tells Violet that they must find the money, dispose of the bodies, and pretend Gino and Johnnie never arrived lest their mob pals discover their absence. Unable to find the money at Johnnie's apartment, Caesar telephones Mickey, a mob buddy, telling him that Gino has yet to arrive.

After discovering Corky and Violet stole the money, Caesar ties them up, threatens to torture them, and demands to know where it is. When Mickey arrives at the apartment, Caesar makes a deal with Violet to help him stall. Violet calls their landline from Johnnie's cell phone and convinces Caesar to feign a conversation with Gino explaining that he and Johnnie are in the hospital after a car accident. The ruse fools Mickey, who leaves for the hospital. Corky tells Caesar she has hidden the money in the next-door apartment and he goes to retrieve it. Violet escapes and calls Mickey, telling him that Caesar stole the money and forced her to keep quiet. Corky tries to stop Caesar from taking the money, but he assaults her. Violet arrives and holds Caesar at gunpoint; she informs him Mickey is coming and that he should run while he can. When Caesar refuses, Violet kills him.

Later, Mickey, who believes Violet's story, tells her that he will find Caesar. Mickey wants Violet to be his girlfriend, but she tells him that she needs a clean break—which she makes by driving off hand-in-hand with Corky.

####Bride 13####
A band of pirates operating from a submarine off the U.S. coast cause depredations, and thirteen young and beautiful brides from wealthy families disappear and are held for ransom for millions of dollars, requiring the assistance of the Department of Justice and the U.S. Navy.

####Broken Vows####
Peter McMahon is priest is summoned to a deprived neighborhood to give a stabbing victim their last rites

####Bulldog Drummond's Peril####
The intended wedding of Captain Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond (John Howard) to Phyllis Clavering (Louise Campbell) at her villa in Switzerland is stopped short (once again) when someone murders the Swiss policeman who is guarding their wedding presents. The killer makes off with their prize possession, a synthetic diamond, made by a secret process by Professor Bernard Goodman (Halliwell Hobbes), the father of their good friend Gwen Longworth (Nydia Westman). A guest, Sir Raymond Blantyre (Matthew Boulton), head of the Metropolitan Diamond Syndicate, disappears at the same time, and Drummond suspects that Sir Raymond, who has the most to lose if Professor Goodman proceeds with his plans to publish his secret process, has something to do with the theft. He leaves Phyllis and chases back to England.

Colonel Nielsen (John Barrymore), of Scotland Yard, as usual scoffs at Drummond's suspicions and insists that a man as respected as Sir Raymond could not possibly be involved in such a crime. An explosion that wrecks Goodman's house, and apparently kills him, makes Drummond more positive that the diamond king has again resorted to murder to protect his business. He follows Professor Botulian (Porter Hall), a lifelong rival of Goodman's, whom he believes to be involved in the affair. His hunt leads him to a lonely house on the outskirts of London where he finds Goodman a prisoner. Drummond's valet Tenny (E.E. Clive) soon joins them as captive, but brings with him the means of escape. After Goodman is taken to safety, Drummond discovers that Phyllis, who was searching for him, is now being held by the crooks. Drummond quickly returns to the house to confront Sir Raymond and his armed confederates. Drummond begins to fight his way out, but is met by superior forces.

####The Chase####
Convict Jack Hammond stops at a gas station in Newport Beach, California, where he encounters two police officers and a young woman. When the officers receive a car radio call that indicates the car Jack is driving is stolen, he panics and kidnaps the woman. Fleeing in her car, Jack learns that his hostage is Natalie Voss, daughter of a millionaire industrialist. Two police officers pursue them in a squad car with a television crew filming a reality show. The car chase moves onto southbound Interstate 5 as Jack decides to flee to Mexico. As the chase intensifies, two bystanders attempt to run Jack off the road in their monster truck, but lose control and roll the truck onto its side, where it is hit by a semi-trailer truck and explodes. The bystanders manage to escape, but are arrested by police during a live T.V. interview explaining why they felt inspired to get involved.

The news media dramatize the car chase, going to such lengths as having a reporter hang out of the side of a van alongside the speeding car. Jack explains to Natalie that, while working as a clown performing at children's birthday parties in Sonoma, he was mistaken for the "red-nosed robber", a criminal who had robbed several banks while wearing a clown costume. A blood test sample improperly collected at one of the crime scenes proved Jack's innocence but its inadmissibility led to his conviction and sentence to 25 years' incarceration. During transfer to prison, he escaped the guards and stole a car, leading to their present situation. Jack's lawyer explains Jack's predicament to the media and tries to convince him to surrender to the police, but Jack believes escape is his only option.

Natalie sympathizes with Jack. She shares with him her hate for her stepmother and that she seeks to escape from her dysfunctional family. As the chase continues, she begins to fall in love with Jack; the two have sex while he drives, and she suggests feigning being his hostage so that they can flee together to Mexico. They reach the San Ysidro Port of Entry and find it heavily blockaded. Jack continues to evade the police but eventually stops, telling Natalie that her life cannot be ruined by him. He releases her reluctantly to her father. After considering going out in a blaze of glory, Jack decides to surrender. As he is being arrested, Natalie takes a television producer hostage at gunpoint and demands Jack's release. The two steal a news helicopter and escape to Mexico, where they relax on a beach.

####Dead Again####
Newspapers detail the 1948 murder of Margaret Strauss, who was stabbed during a robbery; her anklet is missing. Her husband, composer Roman Strauss, is found guilty of the crime and condemned to death. Before his execution, Roman is visited by reporter Gray Baker. Asked if he killed Margaret, Roman appears to whisper something in Baker's ear. Baker does not disclose Roman's answer.

Forty-three years later, private detective Mike Church investigates the identity of a woman who has appeared at the orphanage where he grew up. She has amnesia, cannot speak and has nightmares. Mike takes her in and asks his friend, Pete Dugan, to publish her picture and his contact info. Antiques dealer and hypnotist Franklyn Madson approaches Mike, suggesting hypnosis may help her recover her memory.

When the session is unsuccessful, Madson suggests they experiment with past life regression. Mike is skeptical, but the woman details Margaret and Roman's lives in third person, from courtship to their wedding. When the session ends, she can speak but still has amnesia. Madson shows them "Life" magazine articles covering the murder. Mike and the woman bear a striking resemblance to Roman and Margaret. Mike visits former psychiatrist Cozy Carlisle, who insists they continue to see Madson; delving into the problems between Margaret and Roman may resolve her amnesia.

Mike nicknames the woman "Grace", and falls in love with her. A man named Doug appears and claims she is his fiancée Katherine, but Mike discovers he is lying and chases him off. Hypnotized, Grace remembers that Roman suffered from writer's block and was broke despite the vestiges of his earlier wealth. He believes that Margaret is flirting with Baker, whom she met on their wedding day. Margaret cannot convince him she is faithful and catches Frankie, the son of their housekeeper Inga, looking through her jewelry box. She asks Roman to dismiss Inga but Roman refuses, saying that Inga saved his life in Nazi Germany.

Grace sees Mike standing over Margaret with scissors, and is convinced he intends to kill her. Mike insists that he would never hurt her, but when he accidentally calls her "Margaret", he agrees to let Madson regress him. During his regression, he realizes that he was Margaret and Grace was actually Roman, but is unable to tell Madson or Grace about this revelation.

Pete Dugan tells Mike that he has identified Grace as artist Amanda Sharp. Turns out she lost her memory due to getting mugged one night. Amanda/Grace, still afraid of Mike, accompanies Dugan and Madson to her apartment; her artwork focuses on scissors. Madson gives her a gun to protect herself from Mike. Mike visits Gray Baker in a nursing home and asks him about Roman's secret, but Baker insists that Roman said nothing to him but instead he leaned over and kissed him. Baker is convinced that Roman did not kill his wife and urges Mike to find Inga, who might know what truly happened.

Mike finds and questions Inga. She reveals that Madson is actually Frankie. One day on 1948, she declared her love to Roman but he rebuffed her. Frankie blamed Margaret for his mother's unhappiness and killed her with scissors, then stole her anklet. Roman later was found covered in his wife's blood and holding the murder weapon.

After Roman's execution, Inga took Frankie to London where he learned about hypnotherapy and past-life regression. After returning to LA, Frankie was convinced that Margaret's spirit would seek revenge. Seeing Amanda's photo in the paper, he knew she had returned. He hired Doug, an actor, to separate Mike and Amanda and distract Amanda while he waited to kill her. Inga apologizes for her role in Margaret's death and gives Mike the anklet. After Mike leaves to find Amanda, Frankie/Madson smothers Inga with a pillow.

Mike tries to tell Amanda the truth. Terrified, she shoots him. Madson arrives and reveals that he is Frankie. Amanda tries to shoot him as well, but the gun jams and he knocks her out. He puts the scissors he used to kill Margaret in Mike's hand and tries to make it look like Amanda killed him and committed suicide. Mike revives and stabs Madson in the leg with the scissors. In the ensuing struggle, Mike grabs the gun from Madson. Dugan arrives, misconstrues the scene and tackles Mike. As Madson reaches for the dropped pistol, Amanda stabs him in the back with the scissors. In a rage, Madson pulls the scissors out and charges at Mike, but Mike quickly positions Amanda's scissors sculpture so that Madson impales himself.

A closing montage shows Mike and Amanda embracing, superimposed over Margaret and Roman in happier times.

####The Devil Makes Three####
Former Eighth Air Force bomber crewman Captain Jeff Eliot returns to Germany in 1947 to visit the family who rescued and hid him from the Nazis after his plane was shot down over Munich in World War II.

He learns that most of the family was killed by an American air raid. The only survivor is the daughter, Wilhelmina Lehrt, who is working as a hostess in a nightclub and hates Americans. Eliot nonetheless manages to romance "Willie" and in his time at the nightclub, he develops a friendship with Heisemann, a comic.

Heisemann, it turns out, has secret ties to an underground Nazi revivalist movement. When Eliot discovers this, he tells his superiors, who order him to continue his relationship with Willie to learn more about Heisemann's operation.

The climax of the picture takes place in Berchtesgaden, and the scenes of Heisemann being chased through the rubble were filmed inside the ruins of Hitler's house just before its final demolition by the German government. Heisemann in the scene's final frame stands facing his captors in the notorious huge picture window of the house.

####Die in a Gunfight####
As told by the Narrator, in third person omniscient:

In 1864 New York City, Tarleton Rathcart and Theodore Gibbon settle their rivalry through a Gentlemen's Duel. This results in Theodore’s death, initiating a feud between the families.

Benjamin Gibbon often gets into fights. He seeks meaning in his life, due to depression. Ben falls in love, ceasing his troublemaking ways, but love escapes him. This causes a return to his disruptive habits. Now 27, Ben has renounced his family’s wealth, but has regular communication with his parents.

Mary Rathcart, was expelled from every private school in town. However, her most severe indiscretion was having fallen in love with Ben. Upon their discovery, her parents forbid her seeing Ben due to the family feud. Defiantly, she continues to see Ben. When her parents find out, she is sent to boarding school abroad. Mary writes Ben letters, Ben calls Mary, but neither ever gets a response from the other. Mary’s father, William, having interfered, unbeknownst to either. Consequently, Mary stays in Paris, now, years later, she returns.

Upon learning of Mary’s return, Ben, along with his inseparable friend Mukul, crash a party at the Rathcart estate. They are confronted by Mary’s parents, reminding him they have a restraining order against him. Threatened with police, he promptly leaves.

Due to a scandal brought upon by Pamela Corbett-Ragsdale (Caroline Raynaud), William hires Terrence Uberahl, who hires Wayne McCarthy, to kill her. William previously hired Terrence to watch Mary while abroad, unexpectedly falling in love with her. He uses this incident to ask for Mary’s hand in marriage in exchange for killing Corbett-Ragsdale.

Ben follows Mary but runs into Wayne and his wife Barbie. Ben tries to avoid them, but Wayne is persistent, and they fight. Ben awakes at his apartment with Mary. They talk, becoming obvious that they never stopped loving each other, making plans to marry immediately.

Terrence sends Wayne to intimidate Ben from contact with Mary. He arrives at Ben's apartment with Barbie, only to find two unknown goons. A scuffle breaks out, killing Barbie in the process. Unbeknownst to Wayne, the goons have been hired by Terrence to get rid of him once he had killed Corbett-Ragsdale. Wayne goes to the cinema to mourn. He is confronted by one of the goons. Wayne swiftly dispatches him and realizes that he worked for Terrence.

Determined to secure Mary’s hand in marriage, Terrence kills Corbett-Ragsdale. Meanwhile, Echo, the other goon, informs Terrence that Mary and Ben are to marry. Terrence confronts Ben, and Wayne shows up with William in tow. Wayne is shot by police, enabling Terrence to shoot Ben. Mukul fights Terrence, but Mary shoots him dead.

The film concludes with Ben and Mary driving into the sunset. Presumably to Mexico, just as they had planned years before.

####Eye of the Storm####
At a highway gas station/motel where they live, two young brothers witness their parents murder. The younger brother is blinded in the same incident. Ten years later both brothers are still there and the tragedy may have turned one of them psychotic: customers never check out. When the abusive Gladstone and his young and sexy wife are stranded at the gas station it brings out the worst in everyone.

####A Face to Die For####
Due to a tragic childhood accident, Emily Gilmore (Yasmine Bleeth) is left scarred both physically and mentally. The large scar on her face is a constant reminder to Emily that her career and love life are suffering. Lonely yet talented, Emily longs for a successful career and romance but is trapped by insecurity and fear.

The handsome Alec Dalton (James Wilder) turns Emily's life around and makes her feel truly happy and secure for the first time in her life.  Unfortunately, Alec talks Emily into stealing money from her employer. But the old man that Emily works for comes in during the heist and has a heart attack. Emily stays behind to help him while Alec runs off. He gets away with the money but Emily is sent to prison. She is so in love with Alec she does not say a word about Alec's involvement.

While Emily is in prison she learns that Alec has run away with her own sister, Sheila Gilmore (Chandra West). Devastated, Emily gets in a fight with another inmate and because of the injuries she sustains she has to be seen by Dr. Matthew Sheridan (Richard Beymer). The doctor tells her that he can correct her scars for free with an experimental surgery. It's a great success and Emily is beautiful, almost unrecognizable. After the surgery Emily begins a relationship with the surgeon, who showers her in gifts and love. She is released from prison and the two get engaged, but Emily leaves him when she discovers that Matthew had reconstructed her face to be identical to his dead wife's.

Emily attempts to begin again, changing her name to Adrian Corday and starting her own business as a fashion designer with her friend from prison Claudia (Robin Givens). She reconnects with a kind man from her past, Paul (Ricky Paull Goldin), and starts a relationship with him (though he does not know her true identity.) But when Emily runs into Alec and he does not recognize her, she decides to take her revenge.

During the Climax of the film, Alec recognizes Adrian as Emily under the make up and plastic surgery because of the scar. Giving him the money, she tries to kill him. Alec is able to take the gun away, only to find out it's a fake and tries to scar Emily again. However, Sheila appears and confronts him. She tells Alec that she knew he set Emily up because Claudia told her everything. During their struggle, she shoots him in the chest and he collapses to the ground dead. Taking Sheila to her room, they clean up the blood on their faces. She confessed she killed him after finding out how he set Emily up because he was infatuated with her. After their marriage, Alec was very abusive to Sheila, gave her a similar scar and it drove her to drink. Emily convinces her to go home and let her deal with this. If the cops call and tells Sheila about Alec's death, she must act surprised and inconsolable. She asks Emily to forgive her for what happened. She assures Sheila she has and tells her to go home.

Changing her clothes and putting on make up, Emily goes downstairs and pretends to be shocked when she asks the concierge what happened. He informs her about a shooting and there was a woman with a scar who wanted to meet up with Alec, but then another woman showed up and shot him. Paul appears and apologizes to Emily. While escaping, she decides to come clean to him about her past. Paul tells Emily that he already knew because Sheila and Claudia told him about it. He reassures her that her secret is safe with him.

####Frank & Lola####
Frank, a chef in Las Vegas, meets and falls in love with Lola, a mysterious young woman who is new to the city. When Lola receives a job as a fashion designer, Frank becomes jealous of her boss, Keith Winkleman, even though Keith makes it clear that he does not make a habit of sleeping with his employees. When Frank discovers a one-night stand Lola had in a hotel with an unknown man from out of town, he storms out feeling angry and betrayed. Drinking alone in a bar, he sees a man abusing his girlfriend. He follows the man outside and beats him in a fit of rage. Lola bails him out of jail the next morning and confides in him that her mother Patricia's previous boyfriend Alan Larsson, a Swedish millionaire, had raped her the previous summer. She cites the resulting mental trauma as reason for her infidelity. Frank becomes obsessed with exacting revenge on Alan, and begins finding out details about him online.

One night, Frank is hired to cook dinner for Keith, who, impressed with his culinary skills, flies him out to Paris for a trial with a French restauranter. Frank uses the trip as an opportunity to find Alan, intent on killing him. He tracks Alan down using information he gathered online, and follows him to a local bistro. He introduces himself as "Keith", and tells Alan that he read his memoirs while studying at Northwestern University, where Alan was previously a professor. Impressed that Frank is a "fan", he invites him back to his place for a drink. Once there, Alan becomes suspicious of Frank and deduces that Frank never attended Northwestern University and is in reality there to kill him. Frank confronts him with a knife he concealed in his sleeve about Lola's rape, which Alan denies. Alan then shows Frank a sex tape with Lola and another woman, that shows Lola taking sexual orders from Alan. Alan explains that the two of them were romantically involved and they had picked up the other woman from their favorite sex club. Alan invites Frank to the club where he has a one-night stand with a wealthy Parisian woman and her friend. Meanwhile, the restauranter is impressed with Frank and he gets a job as the head chef in their new Las Vegas restaurant.

Frank flies back to Las Vegas, and after having sex with Lola, informs her that he has learned the truth from Alan and announces that he is leaving her. The next morning, Frank deduces that the unknown man Lola had slept with was Alan, and asks Lola to tell him the truth about her affair with him. Lola tells Frank that the wealthy woman who picked him up in the club was in reality Alan's wife Claire, and that Alan brings her men to sleep with in exchange for her allowing him to do whatever he wants. She explains that Alan did in fact rape her while she was studying fashion in Paris, but that she had fallen in love with him due to Stockholm syndrome. She discovered that she became pregnant with Alan's child, and that Alan left her upon discovering this. Claire offered her a $400,000 check if Lola were to get an abortion and leave Paris, which she reluctantly agreed to, and moved to Las Vegas, where she then met Frank. Lola and Frank then tearfully break up with one another.

After a meeting with the restauranter in Paris, he visits Claire who confirms Lola's side of things. Frank then tracks Alan down again while he is in Las Vegas, hoping to have another encounter with Lola. He puts a letter through Alan's door pretending to be Lola and asking him to meet her in the hotel's closed restaurant, which is actually Frank's new restaurant. There he confronts Alan a final time, and gets him to confess on camera that he thinks nothing of his wife and considers Lola to be his "prize". When Frank attempts to blackmail Alan into leaving them alone by sending the surveillance tape to Claire via her email, Alan attacks him. Frank gains the upper hand and beats Alan into submission, finally getting him to leave Las Vegas and Lola alone.

Sometime later, Keith's company hosts a dinner at Frank's new restaurant, and Keith congratulates him for his success. Lola arrives late to the dinner, and is surprised to find that the restaurant is Frank's. Frank explains that he made "that psycho" (Alan) leave her alone forever, and attempts to rekindle their relationship. Lola is unsure, but Frank asks her to think about it while he goes upstairs to get changed. When he comes back, he is heartbroken to find that Lola is no longer at the bar. However, Lola's reflection can be seen in one of the doors, watching Frank, leaving the status of their relationship ambiguous.

####The Handmaid's Tale####
In the near future, war rages across the Republic of Gilead (formerly the United States of America) and pollution has rendered 99% of the population sterile. Kate is a woman who attempts to emigrate to Canada with her husband Luke and daughter Jill. As they attempt to cross the border by foot on a dirt road, the Gilead Border Guard orders them to turn back or they will open fire. Luke draws their fire, telling Kate to run, and is shot. Kate is captured, while Jill wanders off into the back country, confused and unaccompanied. The authorities take Kate to a training facility with several other women, where the women are trained to become Handmaids, who are concubines for the privileged but barren couples who run the country's religious fundamentalist regime. Although she resists indoctrination into the cult of the Handmaids, which mixes Old Testament orthodoxy with scripted group chanting and ritualized violence, Kate is soon assigned to the home of "the Commander" (Fred) and his cold, inflexible wife, Serena Joy. There she is named "Offred" ("of Fred").

Her role as the Commander's latest concubine is emotionless, as she lies between Serena Joy's legs while the Commander rapes her, both of them hoping that she will bear them a child. Kate continually longs for her earlier life, but nightmares of her husband's death and her daughter's disappearance haunt her. A doctor explains that many of Gilead's male leaders are as sterile as their wives. Desperately wanting a baby, Serena Joy persuades Kate to risk the punishment for fornication (death by hanging) in order to be fertilized by another man who may impregnate her and consequently spare her life. When Kate agrees to this, Serena Joy informs Kate that her daughter Jill is alive, and provides a recent photograph of her living in another Commander's household, but tells Kate she can never see her daughter. The Commander also tries to get closer to Kate, sensing that if she enjoyed herself more she would become a better handmaid. Exploiting Kate's background as a librarian, he gets her hard-to-obtain items and allows her into his private library. However, during a night out, the Commander has sex with Kate in an unauthorized manner. The other man selected by Serena Joy turns out to be Nick, the Commander's sympathetic chauffeur. Kate grows attached to Nick and eventually becomes pregnant with his child.

Kate ultimately kills the Commander, and a police unit then arrives to take her away. Believing the policemen are members of the Eyes, the government's secret police, she realizes that they are soldiers from the resistance movement (Mayday), of which Nick is also a part. Kate then flees with them, parting from Nick in an emotional scene.

Now free once again and wearing non-uniform clothes, but facing an uncertain future, a pregnant Kate is living by herself in a trailer while receiving intelligence reports from the rebels. Wondering if — and hoping that — she and Nick will be reunited, she resolves — with the rebels' help — to find her daughter.

####Heaven####
The film is set in Turin, Italy. It opens with a prologue sequence showing the young Italian Carabinieri clerk Filippo (Ribisi) learning to fly a helicopter using a flight simulator. When he accidentally crashes the virtual helicopter by ascending too dramatically, his instructor tells him, "In a real helicopter, you can't just keep going up and up", prompting Filippo to ask, "How high can I fly?"

The film then cuts to Philippa (Blanchett), who is preparing to plant a bomb in the downtown office of a high-ranking businessman. Although everything goes according to her plan, the garbage bin in which she places the bomb is emptied by a cleaner immediately after she leaves and later explodes in an elevator, killing four people.

Philippa is tracked down by the Carabinieri, arrested, and brought to the station where Filippo works. When she is questioned, she reveals that she is an English teacher at a local school where several students have recently died of drug-related causes. Discovering that they had all been supplied by the same local cartel, she had contacted the Carabinieri with the names of the drug ring leaders, begging them to intervene, but was repeatedly ignored.

At her wits' end, she decided to kill the leader of the cartel, the businessman whose office she targeted. In the process of her interrogation, Filippo (who is translating her confession for his superiors) falls in love with Philippa and helps her escape from Carabinieri custody. After she kills the drug lord who was her original target, the pair become fugitives from the law and flee to the countryside, where they eventually find refuge with one of Philippa's friends and finally consummate their relationship.

When the authorities raid the house where they are hiding, the fugitives steal a Carabinieri helicopter parked on the front lawn and escape by air. The officers on the ground fire repeatedly at them, to no avail, as the craft climbs higher and higher and finally disappears.

####The House on Carroll Street####
Emily Crane, a picture editor for "Life" magazine, is fired after refusing to give names to a 1951 House Un-American Activities Committee. She then takes a part-time job as companion/reader to an old lady. One day she overhears noisy argument in a neighboring house. Outside, she eavesdrops through an open window. One of the occupants is the committee's main senate prosecutor, Ray Salwen. The elderly man he is talking to speaks only German; a younger man named Stefan, whom Emily had earlier asked for directions, is interpreting their confrontation.

Emily meets Stefan on the street again and attempts to press him for information. When he rebuffs her, she follows him to a cemetery, where he demands to know why she is interested. They arrange to meet later a book shop, but are accosted by two US Immigration agents, panicking Stefan. He and Emily escape their pursuit, but before Stefan can tell Emily more, he is murdered by a knife-wielding assassin. During the crime scene investigation, the police find a list of four names in Stefan's pocket, and Emily insists that they search the house where she overheard the argument.

The police are skeptical of Emily's story, so she decides to search the house herself; the assassin reappears, but is thwarted by FBI agent Cochran, who has been keeping an eye on Emily for several days. After a scuffle, the assassin flees, and Cochran takes Emily home — but not before she picks up a book with a woman's name and a date written inside the cover. Cochran and his partner, Hackett, deduce that the name is actually that of a ship, and that it will be arriving in the Port of New York City the next day. Cochran and Emily observe the ship's arrival, but the intrigue grows when Cochran notes government officials present to receive some of the passengers.

Rather than take immediate action, they follow the passengers to a wedding reception, where Emily recognises the man who had the heated argument with Salwen — only he now speaks fluent English and introduces himself as Teperson, one of the names on Stefan's list. Emily slips away, eavesdrops on another conversation and learns that the group will be leaving on a train for Chicago the next evening. This time, she is intercepted by bodyguards and taken to a restaurant where Salwen is waiting to meet her.

Cochran, meanwhile, views a series of intelligence photographs featuring the men who are named on the list; they are all Nazi war criminals travelling under false names, being smuggled into the United States to participate in top-secret anti-Soviet scientific programs. Salwen cryptically reveals as much to Emily, who returns home to find Cochran trying to disarm a bomb rigged to her kitchen stove. They escape Emily's apartment seconds before the bomb explodes, and though Cochran is removed from the investigation, Emily goes to Grand Central Terminal to catch the party before their departure.

Cochran disobeys orders and meets Emily at the station; the assassin makes another attempt on Emily, but is subdued by Cochran and Hackett. Outrunning Salwen's other henchmen, Emily is finally cornered by Salwen in the framework of the station's ceiling, where he makes one last attempt to convince her of the greater good of the smuggling operation. When he tries to restrain her physically, she kicks him off a catwalk, whereupon Salwen crashes through the ceiling and falls to his death.

Cochran and Emily board the train carrying the criminals in the nick of time, where Cochran places the entire party under arrest. He loudly reveals to the other people on the train that Teperson is actually a physician who performed deadly experiments on prisoners at Auschwitz. Case closed, Emily returns to her part-time job as Cochran informs her that he is being transferred to Butte, Montana, and it is not likely that they will see each other again.

####Incognito####
Talented New York painter Harry Donovan is an expert of copying famous artists' paintings, but is struggling to become a legitimate artist in his own right. Until now, he has avoided detection by forging third and fourth tier masters, but that is about to change. Frustrated by the cancellation of an exhibition of his paintings, Harry accepts a job forging a long lost Rembrandt for $550,000 from three art dealer clients—Alistair Davies, Ian Hill, and Agachi—against the wishes of his artist father who wants his son to give up forgery and concentrate on his own work.

Despite his father's wishes, Harry takes the job and travels to Amsterdam to study Rembrandt. He decides to forge a never-discovered portrait of the master's blind father lost supposedly off the coast of Spain over 350 years ago. Harry continues his research in Paris, where he meets a beautiful Rembrandt scholar, Professor Marieke van den Broeck, who tells him she is a "student". Harry does not know that one of his main source books was written by Marieke. With her unwitting help, he gains access to an actual Rembrandt being restored at the Louvre from which he obtains scrapings of the original varnish. Soon Harry and Marieke become involved romantically.

Harry travels back to Amsterdam, where he paints his "Rembrandt" in an attic studio using period materials and a photograph of his own father as a model. He then journeys to Spain where he shows his three clients his forged masterpiece. After they find a local farmer who is paid to claim to have "found" the painting, the three clients invite two art experts to examine the painting, and they "confirm" it to be a Rembrandt. They return to London with the painting for a final authentication by a group of experts, which includes Marieke, to Harry's surprise. Several experts agree it is genuine, but Marieke does not. Dismayed to learn that his clients plan to hold a public auction, Harry tries to take back his painting but Davies pulls a modified Beretta handgun on him. Harry manages to evade his line of fire and makes his escape with the painting while Davies shoots and kills Agachi and frames Harry for the murder and the theft of the painting.

After eluding arrest, Harry finds Marieke, handcuffs her to his wrist, and together they escape on the Orient Express. Forced to flee the train by the pursuing police, they make their way through the English countryside, eventually splitting up before Harry is finally arrested while attempting to destroy his forgery at Mentmore Towers.

During his trial Harry tries to prove his innocence by duplicating the painting in open court to show that the painting is fake. His feelings, however, over his father's recent death and his wish for him to give up forgery prevent him from completing the painting. "Only Rembrandt can paint a Rembrandt," he concludes. Harry is saved when Hill, fearing his partner's homicidal intentions, testifies that Davies was actually the one who murdered Agachi. An enraged Davies is put in contempt and Harry is cleared of all charges.

After his release, Harry discovers that Hill plans to auction the painting himself and reap all the financial benefits. Having anticipated such an outcome, Harry had written a letter to the farmer in Spain notifying him of the deception. Spanish law allows the government first right of purchase from the discoverer of all treasures found on Spanish soil. The painting ends up in the Museo del Prado and the $55,000,000 that the painting was sold for end up in Spain. Of this money two thirds are taken by the Spanish government, half of the remaining sum is taken by the Church, and what is left is given to the farmer. In gratitude, the farmer invites Harry to Spain where he gives the artist half of the money—$5 million. Harry then travels back to Paris to meet Marieke. He gives her an original portrait that he painted of her in his own style. After signing the painting, the couple kiss and embrace on the romantic banks of the Seine.

####Kites####
Jay Ray (Hrithik Roshan) is a dance teacher in Las Vegas, Nevada. As a sideline, he marries immigrant women to get them green cards in exchange for money. When Gina (Kangana Ranaut), the rich daughter of a powerful Anglo-Indian casino owner Bob Grover (Kabir Bedi), falls for him, Jay goes along to marry into money. He discovers that his future brother-in-law, the vicious, homicidal Tony (Nicholas Brown), is about to marry a Mexican woman named Natasha (Bárbara Mori), whom Jay knows as Linda, the last of the immigrant women he married. On the night before "Natasha" and Tony's wedding, Linda and Jay humorously agree to a "divorce" that night. A jealous, gun-wielding Tony arrives at her apartment while Jay is there. After he hits her, Linda impulsively knocks him out with a heavy object while he tussles with Jay. Linda and Jay go on the run toward Mexico, with Tony and the police in pursuit. They are helped by a friend of Jay, Robin (Anand Tiwari). Robin gives them fake passports and IDs so that they can go wherever they want.

In the following week, Jay and Linda get married in Mexico. On the day of their wedding, they come back to their house. There, Robin comes to give them the passports and is unexpectedly shot by Tony and his men. Linda and Jay escape, but Jay is shot in the process. In a car chase, Linda stops the car at a train, puts Jay aboard it, and drives off. Back to the present, Jay meets with Jamaal, one of Bob's employees, and is ambushed. Jamaal is killed but not before telling Jay of Linda's whereabouts. Jay kills off all of Tony's men and then kills Tony by smashing his face into the car door. He is shot then by Gina. He drives off to the location where Jamaal said Linda was last seen. It is shown that after Jay was put aboard the train, Linda was ambushed on a cliff and sent Jay a text message saying, "I am going...Sorry, Forget me". She drives off of the cliff, killing herself by drowning. Jay cries and then smiles, jumping off the cliff as well. Finally, he is reunited with Linda under the ocean, and they embrace through death.

####Marnie####
Marion Holland flees with nearly $10,000 she stole from the company safe of her employer, Sidney Strutt, the head of a tax consulting company, whom she charmed into hiring her without references. Changing her appearance and identity, Marian, whose real name is Margaret "Marnie" Edgar, travels to Virginia, where she stables a horse named Forio. She then visits her invalid mother, Bernice, whom she supports financially, in Baltimore.

Mark Rutland, a wealthy widower who owns a publishing company in Philadelphia, meets with Strutt on business. He learns about the theft and recalls Marnie from a previous visit. Some months later, Marnie, posing as Mary Taylor, applies for a job at Mark's company. Mark hires her after recognizing her. While working weekend overtime with Mark, Marnie has a panic attack during a thunderstorm. Mark comforts, then kisses her. They begin dating. Marnie suffers from bad dreams, and the color red can trigger an extreme emotional reaction.

Soon after, Marnie steals money from Mark's company and flees again. Mark tracks her to the stable where she keeps Forio. He blackmails her into marrying him, much to the chagrin of Lil, the sister of Mark's late wife, who is in love with him. Lil grows suspicious when she discovers Mark has spent a considerable sum since marrying Marnie.

On their honeymoon cruise, Marnie resists Mark's desire for physical intimacy. Mark initially respects her wishes, but it is implied that he rapes her offscreen. The next morning, she attempts to drown herself in the ship's swimming pool, but Mark saves her.

After overhearing Marnie on a phone call, Lil tips off Mark that Marnie's mother is not dead, as Marnie claimed. Mark hires a private detective to investigate. Meanwhile, Lil overhears Mark telling Marnie he has "paid off Strutt" on her behalf. Lil mischievously invites Strutt and his wife to a party at the Rutland mansion. Strutt recognizes Marnie, but Mark pressures him into doing nothing. When Marnie later admits to additional robberies, Mark works to reimburse her victims to drop charges.

Mark brings Forio to their estate, pleasing Marnie. During a fox hunt, a red riding coat triggers another of Marnie's fits and Forio bolts, misses a jump, injures its legs, and is left lying on the ground screaming in pain. Marnie frantically runs to a nearby house, obtains a gun, and shoots her horse. Crazed with grief, Marnie goes home, where she finds the key to Mark's office. She goes to the office and opens the safe, but finds herself unable to take the money, even after Mark arrives and "urges" her to take it.

Mark takes Marnie to Baltimore to confront her mother and extract the truth about Marnie's past. They arrive in a thunderstorm. As it is revealed that Bernice was a sex worker, Marnie's long-suppressed memories resurface: when she was a small child, one of Bernice's clients tried to calm a frightened Marnie during a thunderstorm. Seeing him touch Marnie and believing he was trying to molest her, Bernice attacked him. As the man fended her off, she fell and injured her leg, leaving her disabled. Marnie, frightened and attempting to protect her mother, fatally struck the man in the head with a fireplace poker. The sight of his blood caused her hatred of the color red, the thunderstorm that night caused her fear of them, and the connection of the deadly night to sex caused her revulsion at physical intimacy. In the aftermath, Bernice told police that she killed the man and prayed Marnie would forget the event. Understanding the reason behind her behavior, Marnie asks for Mark's help. They leave holding each other closely.

####Masquerade####
Young yachting captain Tim Whalen is having an affair with Brooke Morrison, the wife of his boss, Granger Morrison, in the upscale town of Southampton, Long Island. Tim is the new captain of Granger's racing sailboat "Obsession". Young heiress Olivia Lawrence, following the recent death of her mother, returns home to Southampton after graduating from college. At a party, Olivia is introduced to Tim, who asks her to dance. Impressed with her knowledge of sailing, Tim asks her to go sailing with him, and she accepts.

Olivia is living in the family mansion with her alcoholic stepfather, Tony Gateworth, and his new live-in girlfriend, Anne Briscoe. Her mother's will provided that Gateworth retain access to the family's eight properties. Olivia has nothing but contempt for her stepfather, who married her mother for her money. At her family attorney's office in New York City, Olivia learns she cannot restrict Gateworth's access to her homes, and the nearly one million dollars a year he receives from the estate barely covers his gambling debts.

Olivia and Tim go sailing on her boat "Masquerade", which was her late father's pride and joy. Later, at Olivia's mansion, they are confronted by a drunk Gateworth who insults Tim, his former sailing competitor. In the coming days, Olivia and Tim begin dating and eventually fall in love. However, Olivia's newfound happiness is soon offset by another ugly confrontation with Gateworth who tells her as her "guardian" he wants Tim out of her life. Olivia confides to her aunt that Tim is the first man she has felt comfortable with and that he isn't interested in her money. Later that day, at a lobster house on the outskirts of town, Gateworth and Tim meet surreptitiously to discuss their conspiracy to murder Olivia for her money. When Tim expresses doubts, Gateworth threatens to expose his past. He tells him the next step is to gain Olivia's confidence by having Tim defend her against him.

That weekend, Olivia and Tim have passionate sex in the mansion. Afterwards, a drunken Gateworth breaks into Olivia's room as planned, but Tim double-crosses him and kills Gateworth with his own pistol. Believing they will be accused of murdering Gateworth, Olivia covers up Tim's role in the killing by claiming she killed Gateworth in self-defense. Tim establishes an alibi with an unsuspecting Brooke by resetting her bedside clock. During the investigation, Officer Mike McGill —a childhood friend with a romantic interest in Olivia—finds evidence that Tim may have been involved in the killing, but he does not report it to his captain, presumably because of his feelings for Olivia.

Anne then begins questioning the investigation's findings, and tells the authorities about Olivia and Tim. Meanwhile, Tim breaks up with Brooke, who later confirms Tim's alibi to the police. Not long after Anne informs McGill that her friend saw Gateworth at a diner with Tim, she is found hanged in an apparent suicide. McGill requests an autopsy.

While sailing aboard "Masquerade", Olivia asks Tim to marry her, but he is reluctant, telling her he once spent 30 days in jail for writing bad checks. He also tells her about his affair with Brooke. His "honesty" convinces Olivia he is the right man, and the couple are soon married. Later, Olivia reveals she is pregnant. That night, Tim drives to the marina where he meets secretly with McGill, who was part of the original conspiracy—who in fact planned everything. Tim is reluctant about killing Olivia, but McGill insists she must die in a staged car accident. He threatens to put Tim away for Gateworth's murder if he doesn't cooperate.

When McGill learns that Tim has no intention of killing Olivia and that they are planning to sail for Florida on "Masquerade" the next day, he sabotages Olivia's sailboat and plants incriminating evidence in Tim's linen drawer. Tim discovers McGill's treachery and races to the marina to save Olivia, but is killed in the gas explosion meant to kill Olivia. In the marina office afterwards, Olivia discovers a newspaper clipping with a picture of Tim, Gateworth and McGill, just as McGill enters the office. Seeing that she has figured out the conspiracy, he tries to kill her. In the ensuing struggle, Olivia pushes McGill out a window causing his death.

At Tim's funeral, Olivia learns from her family attorney that Tim had recently insisted he be removed from Olivia's will, and however it may have started, he came to love Olivia in the end.

####Match Point####
Chris Wilton, a recently retired tennis professional from Ireland, is taken on as an instructor at an upmarket club in London. He strikes up a friendship with a wealthy pupil, Tom Hewett, after discovering their common affinity for opera. Tom's older sister, Chloe, is smitten with Chris, and the two begin dating. During a family gathering, Chris meets Tom's American fiancée, Nola Rice, and they are instantly attracted to each other. Tom's mother, Eleanor, does not approve of her son's relationship with Nola, a struggling actress. This is a source of tension in the family. Chloe persuades her father, Alec, to give Chris a job as an executive in one of his companies. Alec does so, and Chris begins to be accepted into the family. As a result, marriage is discussed.

One afternoon, Nola's choice of profession is questioned by Eleanor, and Nola leaves the house in anger during a thunderstorm. Chris follows Nola outside and confesses his feelings for her, and they passionately have sex in a wheat field. Feeling guilty, Nola treats this as an accident. Chris, however, wants an ongoing clandestine relationship. Chris and Chloe marry, while Tom ends his relationship with Nola.

Chloe, to her distress, does not become pregnant immediately. Chris vainly tries to track down Nola, but meets her by chance sometime later at Tate Modern. He discreetly asks for her number, and they begin an affair. While Chris is spending time with his wife's family, Nola calls to inform him that she is pregnant. Panicked, Chris asks her to get an abortion, but she refuses, saying that she wants to raise the child with him. Chris becomes distant from Chloe, who suspects he is having an affair, which he denies. Nola urges Chris to divorce his wife, and he feels trapped and finds himself lying to Chloe as well as to Nola. Nola confronts him on the street outside his apartment and he just barely escapes public detection.

Soon afterwards, Chris takes a shotgun from his father-in-law's home and carries it to his office in a tennis bag. After leaving the office, he calls Nola on her mobile to tell her he has good news for her. He goes to Nola's building and gains entry into the apartment of her neighbor, Mrs. Eastby, whom he shoots and kills and then stages a burglary by ransacking the rooms and stealing jewelry and drugs. As Nola returns, he shoots her in the stairwell. Chris then takes a taxi to the theater to watch a musical with Chloe. Scotland Yard investigates the crime and concludes it was likely committed by a drug addict stealing money. The following day, as the murder is in the news, Chris returns the shotgun and he and Chloe announce that she is pregnant.

Detective Mike Banner invites Chris for an interview in relation to the murder. Before he goes in to see the detectives, Chris throws Mrs. Eastby's jewelry and drugs into the river, but by chance her ring bounces on the railing and falls to the pavement. This imagery ties in to the opening scene when a tennis ball hits the net, but bounces back, and the narrator (Chris) says, "The man who said, 'I'd rather be lucky than good,' saw deeply into life. People are afraid to face how great a part of life is dependent on luck. It's scary to think so much is out of one's control. There are moments in a match when the ball hits the top of the net, and for a split second, it can either go forward or fall back. With a little luck, it goes forward, and you win. Or maybe it doesn't, and you lose."

At the police station, Chris lies about his relationship with Nola, but Banner surprises him with her diary, in which he is featured extensively. He confesses his affair but denies any link to the murder, and appeals to the detectives not to involve him further in their investigation as news of the affair may end his marriage just as he and his wife are expecting a baby.

One night, Chris sees apparitions of Nola and Mrs. Eastby, who tell him to be ready for the consequences of his actions. He replies that his crimes, though wrong, had been committed for a "grander scheme", and that he is able to suppress his guilt. The same night, Banner dreams that Chris committed the murders.

The next morning, however, his theory is discredited by his partner, Dowd, who informs him that a drug addict found murdered on the streets had Mrs. Eastby's ring in his pocket. Banner and Dowd consider the case closed and abandon any further investigation. Chloe gives birth to a baby boy named Terence, and his uncle Tom blesses him not with greatness but with luck.

####Obsessed####
Lorie Brindel is a young marine surveyor who is attracted to older men, including one of her clients, Ed Bledsoe, a much older and twice-divorced man. After some flirting during her assessment of his yacht, they begin to date. While he is away on a business trip, Lorie moves in without asking. Although unhappy about it, he eventually relents and allows her to stay. As times passes, Lorie becomes more controlling of her romance with Ed, demanding that he be with her at all hours as well as have nobody else in his life. Lorie soon completely unravels from Ed's lack of commitment, and she cannot stand it when he chooses a golf tournament with some friends over her romantic weekend. Ed, never sure about their relationship in the first place, decides he's had enough and orders her to move out that day.

Lorie cannot accept it's over and believes it's just a lovers' spat that will ultimately result in marriage. She calls at night, begging for another chance, but is refused. Though he denies any intention to see her, Ed checks up on Lorie and punches out a man who was harassing her. Feeling trapped, Ed entertains and eventually sleeps with Lorie again. He resolves to break it off the next day, but she calls throughout the night, phoning everyone she knows when he doesn't answer. Andie, Ed's daughter, convinces him to be harsh, and he informs Lorie that she needs to leave him alone or he'll change his number.

Feeling betrayed, Lorie makes two attempts to see Ed, first embarrassing him in front of his friends and a new woman, Louise, then showing up drunk and barely dressed for his birthday night where she is chased away by Andie. Rejected, Lorie tries to commit suicide. Ed feels guilty and visits the hospital to make sure she's stable, then leaves again without seeing her. In the doctor's office, Lorie describes to a psychiatrist what she thinks would have been the perfect romance, but is ultimately released.  Lorie becomes increasingly unstable, following Ed and threatening to destroy his possessions. She blows up his boat, and Ed finally reports her. However, the police are unable to help without proof.

Lorie is fired from her job due to her behavior, which she blames on Ed. At his house, she takes his handgun and waits. She then holds Andie hostage where Lorie tells her about her unhappy childhood and about how her own father neglected and abandoned her. As a result, Lorie then developed an unnatural attraction to older men whom she tries to mold each one in the image of her absent father. When Ed arrives, Lorie threatens to kill Andie despite pleas from Ed to lower the gun. Ed attacks and almost chokes Lorie to death before being pulled off by his daughter. Lorie is taken to another doctor's office but is hostile and refuses to cooperate. When she is led away to be committed to a mental hospital, she violently pulls her arm out of the guard's grasp.

In the final scene, set one year later, Ed has purchased a new yacht. He is now dating Louise and sees her as the best thing that ever happened to him. As he is looking at the scenery, he notices another yacht passing by with a woman on it. He makes eye contact only to discover it is Lorie in the company of another wealthy, older man.

####The Perfect Guy####
Successful lobbyist Leah Vaughn breaks up with her boyfriend, Dave King, because he refuses to commit to her wishes of starting a family. Two months later, she meets Carter Duncan, a charming man who works in IT for another company. They quickly grow close and he works his way into the hearts of her friends and family. On their way home from a trip to San Francisco to meet her parents, a stranger at a gas station asks Leah about Carter's Dodge Charger. Carter viciously attacks the man, and Carter and Leah drive off when the station's owner orders them to leave. Distraught over his actions, Leah decides to break up with him that night.

Over the next several weeks, Carter stalks Leah at her job, and makes numerous phone calls, even after she changes her phone number. Unbeknownst to Leah, Carter also gets into her house with her spare key. He goes through her belongings, hacks into her computer, and abducts her cat. She finally decides to go to the police, meeting with Detective Hansen, who advises her to keep records of any further attempts Carter makes to contact her. Leah later finds a threatening note and a single red rose attached to her car and files a restraining order against Carter, causing him to lose his job.

Later, Dave contacts Leah about rekindling their relationship and Leah eagerly agrees. One night, Leah and Dave find Carter watching them at a restaurant, and Dave grimly warns him to stay away. They notify the police and, after Hansen interrogates Carter over the violation, Carter feigns innocence, stating  he had no idea she was there and that Dave was aggressive towards him. Hansen lets him go.

One night, Leah's neighbor, Mrs. McCarthy, discovers Carter inside Leah's house, and he pushes her down the stairs, killing her.  Carter secretly videotapes Leah and Dave as they sleep and make love and uses Leah's work email account to send the video to her co-workers and her business's clients, causing her to be suspended from her job. Carter also sabotages Dave's car, causing it to crash, and suffocates the injured Dave.

Both Leah and Hansen are certain that Carter is involved in Dave's death, though they lack the evidence necessary to incriminate him. After investigating further, Hansen learns that Carter's real name is Robert Adams, and that he changed his identity after a similar series of harassment. With the situation escalating, a concerned Hansen relays a story to Leah of a friend of his that bought a 12-gauge Remington shotgun that he loaded with two bean bag rounds and five live shells. Hansen explains that the bean bag rounds, if fired first as warning shots, would give justification in the event of an intruder and implies that Leah should take such action, leading to Leah buying a shotgun.

Leah discovers Robert, with a new identity, with another woman. She frightens her off and files another restraining order against him in front of his new employers, once again getting him fired. She then manages to find his hideout,  where he monitors her, as well as finding her cat. She destroys his numerous computers and leaves, daring him to come after her again.

That night, Robert breaks into Leah's home, and, after luring him to an empty room, she aims her gun at him. After managing to knock the gun out of her hand, a struggle ensues. Leah manages to recover her shotgun and, per Hansen's story, shoots Robert twice with bean bag rounds as a warning to make killing him justified, while claiming that the bean bag rounds are all that she has in the shotgun. When Robert persists in attacking, believing that Leah cannot kill him, Leah shoots him with a live shell from the shotgun; a fatally wounded and stunned Robert only has enough time to hear Leah confess that she lied about having no live shells before dying. A now-relieved Leah reports Robert to Hansen as an intruder, and the police cart his corpse out of her house.

####Plush####
After losing her bandmate and brother to a drug overdose, rising rock star Hayley finds herself in a downward spiral. The second album from her band Plush is received as a critical and commercial disaster. She finds new hope and friendship in Enzo, the replacement guitarist who inspires her to reach new creative heights. However, soon their collaboration crosses the line sexually and Hayley, who is married with two children, retreats from Enzo's advances. As Hayley slowly discovers Enzo's dark and troubled history, she realizes she may have let a madman into her home and that her mistake may cost the lives of people closest to her.

####Queen & Slim####
In 2019, after a client of hers is executed by the state, “Queen”, a black criminal defense attorney, has an awkward and disappointing dinner with her Tinder date “Slim“ in an Ohio diner. As he drives her home from what will be their one and only date, they are pulled over by a white police officer who searches Slim and his trunk without cause. When Slim mildly asks the officer to hurry as it is cold outside, the officer draws his gun on Slim. Queen angrily gets out to confront the officer, reaching for her phone, and he shoots her in the leg. Slim tackles the officer and a scuffle ensues, resulting in Slim grabbing the officer's gun and shooting him dead. Taking the gun and throwing away their phones, Queen tells Slim they must go on the run or else spend their lives in prison.

Out of gas, they flag down a passing Latino driver, Edgar, who turns out to be a Kentucky sheriff. He receives an APB about the officer's death and realizes Queen and Slim are the suspects. They take his truck at gunpoint, leaving him in the trunk of Slim's car, despite his offering to help them. They pay a young black boy to order them food, and he reveals that dashcam footage of their confrontation with the officer has gone viral. They accidentally strike the boy's father with the truck, but he is supportive of their actions — the police officer Slim shot having killed an unarmed black man two years earlier — and they drive him to a hospital. Slim has an unsettling encounter with a gas station clerk after letting him hold the gun.

They arrive in New Orleans at the house of Queen's estranged Uncle Earl, a pimp, and Slim proposes they escape to Cuba. After a police officer notices their truck, Earl gives them money and another car to reach Johnny Shepherd, a friend whose life he saved while serving overseas. Queen and Slim bond while dancing at a bar, where they are recognized by sympathetic locals, and stop to admire a horse by the road. Their car breaks down, forcing them to give all their money to a black mechanic, whose teenage son Junior expresses his admiration for them; Slim has Junior take their picture.

Slim calls his father, who cuts the call short; it is revealed that law enforcement was listening in, but his father refuses to cooperate. Queen takes Slim to visit the grave of her mother, who was accidentally killed by her Uncle Earl during a disagreement; Queen successfully defended him in her first trial. Slim comforts Queen, and they have sex in the car. At a protest in support of the fugitives, Junior is urged to leave by a compassionate black officer, whom he impulsively shoots in the face, and is himself killed.

Queen and Slim reach the home of Shepherd and his wife, who reveal that a $500,000 bounty has been placed on them, and Shepherd gives them directions to a man in Florida. A neighbor sees them arrive, and a SWAT team raids the house but fails to find them, hidden in a crawlspace under the Shepherds' bed. The next day, they sneak out of the house through a window and Queen dislocates her shoulder, which Slim resets, but her cry alerts a black officer stationed outside. He discovers them about to flee in the Shepherds' car but lets them escape.

They reach the Florida address and sleep in the car, awakened in the morning by a black man with a shotgun. They follow the man to his trailer where he makes a call, telling them a friend can help them escape by plane. He drives them to the tarmac and Queen and Slim walk toward a waiting plane, but a squad of police cars arrive on the scene. Joining hands, they declare their love for each other, but Queen is shot dead by an overeager officer. Ignoring police commands, an unarmed Slim carries Queen's body toward the officers and is gunned down as well.

The people Queen and Slim encountered react to news reports of their deaths; the Florida man has collected the bounty, while the police have falsely claimed that both Queen and Slim were armed when they were shot, despite footage showing the opposite. Their real names are revealed to be Angela Johnson and Ernest Hines, and hundreds attend their funeral, viewing them as martyrs as Junior's photo of them becomes a symbol across the country.

####Return to Paradise####
Three friends, Lewis McBride, Sheriff and Tony, are seen vacationing in a Malaysian paradise. Their adventures include being almost run over by a car while riding a bicycle, and being pressured into buying some rhinoceros horn from Malaysian locals. They also purchase a large bag of hash from a drug dealer. The three men wind up at their beachfront house on the ocean pondering their future in the island paradise.

Tony and Sheriff decide to return to NYC, while Lewis, being a "greenie", wishes to travel to Borneo to save endangered orangutans. On the last day, they toss the remaining hash in the garbage. As time passes in NYC, Sheriff is working as a limo driver and Tony as an architect.

A young lawyer named Beth informs them that their friend Lewis has spent the last two years in Penang prison in Malaysia, because of hash found at their Malaysian house. She reveals that he will receive the death sentence unless one or both of the men return to share responsibility. Beth assures both of them that they will not suffer in prison, be tortured, or harmed in any way. After a gruelling eight days, during which they must make a decision, Beth and Sheriff begin a heated love affair, and both men decide to return to Malaysia. Upon their arrival, all seems well until they visit the prison to see Lewis.

Lewis appears to have suffered psychological damage from the harsh imprisonment, although it is reported that he has not been tortured or starved as is the case with other prisoners. Beth subsequently reveals that she is Lewis' sister and has been blatantly manipulating the two men. Her lie makes Tony fearful of the Malaysian justice system, so he abandons Lewis and flies back to the US. Sheriff initially follows Tony, but decides to face jail to save his friend and returns to the courtroom in which Lewis is being tried.

The judge seems heartened by this act of courage, until he discovers a news clipping from an American newspaper blaming the Malaysian justice system and condemning them for their harsh sentencing of Lewis. Because of this, he becomes infuriated and gives Lewis a death sentence, despite Sheriff's decision to accept his share of the responsibility. He also gives Sheriff an unknown period of jail time.

As Lewis is taken to his execution, Sheriff hears his screams and struggles. From a window, he is able to call to him, to assure him repeatedly that he is not alone. Just before he is hanged, Lewis calms in response to these assurances and dies quietly.

Sheriff assures Beth that Lewis, despite his emotional deterioration, seemed at peace in his final moments. She becomes emotional and kisses Sheriff as a sign of their love and connection. Beth tells him that the attorney general has said that the Malaysian government will quietly release him within six months, once the media attention dies down, to save face. As the guard takes Sheriff out, Beth says that she will take her brother back home and then return to Malaysia to await his release.

####Revenge####
Michael J. "Jay" Cochran is a U.S. Navy aviator, leaving the service after 12 years. He receives a matched pair of Beretta shotguns and an invitation from his wealthy friend, Tiburon "Tibey" Mendez to spend time at his hacienda in Mexico. Tibey is also a powerful crime boss, constantly surrounded by bodyguards.

In Mexico, Cochran meets Tibey's beautiful young wife, Miryea who lives in lavish surroundings, but is unhappy because her much-older husband does not want children, feeling pregnancy would spoil her looks.

Jay presents Tibey with a Navy G-1 leather flight jacket. But he rubs Tibey's suspicious right-hand man Cesar the wrong way by behaving independently and not acting like an employee. After a dinner Tibey conducts a private meeting with business associates, killing one of them, while elsewhere Miryea and Jay get better acquainted, developing a romantic attraction for each other.

During a party, with Tibey and his men nearby, Jay and Miryea secretly have sex in a closet. Jay tells her he intends to leave Mexico, worried that Tibey will become aware of the situation. Miryea begs him to stay and having fallen in love with her, he agrees and together, they arrange a secret rendezvous at a remote cabin in Mexico.

Miryea tells Tibey that she will be visiting her sister in Miami, but Tibey overhears a telephone conversation in which Miryea asks her sister to lie for her. Tibey drives Miryea to the airport, giving her one last kiss. Jay is secretly waiting inside the airport and they drive off to the cabin.

At their hideaway, they are surprised by Tibey and his men. Jay's beloved dog Rocky is shot dead. Calling Miryea a "faithless whore", Tibey strikes her and cuts her across the mouth with a knife (creating half a Glasgow smile) as Tibey's henchmen viciously beat Jay bloody. After setting fire to the cabin, they dump Jay in the desert, leaving him to die.

Miryea is placed in a whorehouse with Tibby giving instructions for her to be “fucked 50 times a day”, where she is drugged, abused and relegated to "common use". The young man responsible for keeping her drugged has AIDS. As Miryea no longer wishes to live, she persuades him to share a needle with her, thus infecting her.

An unconscious Jay is discovered by Mauro, a peasant farmer whose family slowly nurses Jay back to health. Jay returns to the burnt cabin and retrieves some money he had hidden. Mauro drives Jay to town and gives him a knife to "cut the balls off your enemy". Jay encounters a sickly Texan transporting a horse, who offers Jay a ride to Durango. Inside a cantina, Jay notices one of the thugs who had thrashed him; he follows him into the men's room and cuts his throat.

After a day on the road, the Texan delivers the horse to a wealthy man, who recognizes Jay from an afternoon at Tibey's estate. The friendly Texan later dies peacefully in his car, while Jay is driving.

At a motel, Jay runs across Amador, Mauro's brother-in-law. Amador and his quiet friend Ignacio are willing to help Jay because Amador's sister was killed after getting mixed up in business that involved Tibey. They capture another of Tibey's henchmen, who tells them where Miryea can be found. Jay barges into the brothel, only to find that she has been moved. The madam taunts Jay that Miryea proved very popular with the clientele. No one but Tibey knows where she is.

Jay, Amador and Ignacio ambush Tibey and his bodyguard during Tibey's morning horseback ride. Jay is there to ask Miryea's whereabouts, but first Tibey requests that Jay ask forgiveness for having stolen his wife. When Jay lowers his gun and asks Tibey's forgiveness, Tibey reveals that Miryea is in a convent.

Miryea is in a convent hospice, dying of AIDS. Jay arrives in time to tell Miryea that he loves her. He carries her outside and Miryea tells Jay that she also loves him before she dies in his arms.

####Rx####
Three American friends travel across the border to a secret outdoor party in Mexico. While there, they visit Jonny's drug dealer Pepe, an American who has set up a drug dealing business in Mexico. While they are waiting, a local mechanic named Carlos offers to fix a bump on their car but they decline the offer. Andrew uses $2,000 he stole from his fast food job to buy a large amount of pills. He explains that he needs money to solve his financial problems at home and Jonny offers to help him swallow the bags of pills out of sympathy.

While at the border crossing, Jonny experiences extreme pain from the bags rupturing in his stomach so Andrew quickly turns the car around and drives to a hospital but is too afraid to go inside. When Jonny dies in the car, Andrew and Melissa hide his body in the front storage compartment of the car.

They drive back to Pepe's to ask for something to flush out the pills in Andrew's stomach. Pepe gives Andrew muscle relaxers and gives Melissa a tranquilizer to relax, then forces them to wear costumes for his party. During the party, Andrew breaks into Pepe's stash room and steals all of his money, nearly $20,000. While attempting to leave, he is caught by Pepe's guard Raul, who demands to look in the front storage compartment of the car. He finds Jonny's body and accidentally shoots it, then he tells Andrew and Melissa to lie down and prepares to shoot them. Raul looks away to shout to Pepe and Andrew knocks him over with a shovel, then Andrew and Melissa escape to the car and drive away.

They hide Jonny's body in a blanket off a dirt road in the hills then drive to a hotel for the night. During the night, Andrew leaves and wakes up Carlos (as well as his mother) to help him fix the broken window on the car to avoid suspicion at the border. Melissa notices him leaving and she leaves with the car herself. Carlos informs Pepe and Raul, who show up and beat Andrew, demanding the money. He says that it is in the car but they are unable to find the car there and assume that Melissa has intentionally left with the money. When they find her at the border control, Andrew hits the gas pedal to cause a collision and get the attention of the police. The police arrest Pepe for holding a weapon and Andrew stops at Melissa's car to say goodbye then gives the stolen money to a young girl selling flowers. He is stopped by the police and told to get on the ground but when he lifts his shirt to expose his handgun he is shot and killed. Melissa continues across the border to the United States.

####Safe Haven####
Barefoot and covered in blood, a terrified woman named Erin runs to an elderly neighbor’s house for shelter. After cutting and bleaching her hair, she arrives at a bus station. Cops appear and start looking for her, but she gets on a bus and escapes them.

At Southport, North Carolina, she introduces herself as Katie, gets a job as a waitress, and rents a small house on the edge of town. She befriends her neighbor, Jo, and meets Alex Wheatley who operates the local general store. He is a widowed father of two young children, Josh, who has a strained relationship with him, and Lexie.

Katie soon begins a relationship with Alex, and becomes a mother figure to Josh and Lexie. Meanwhile, Kevin Tierney, a Boston police detective, prepares wanted posters for "Erin", a woman accused of first-degree murder. Alex sees the poster in the police station and notices the picture bears a striking resemblance to Katie. He confronts her, causing a huge fight which ends in their breakup and her moving out.

As Katie is about to leave town, Alex intercepts her, saying he has fallen in love with her, begging her not to leave and promising to keep her safe. Katie reluctantly returns his love, and decides to stay in Southport (though still apprehensive of bringing danger upon his family). She tells him that she fled there to escape her abusive and alcoholic cop husband. They got in a big fight and she stabbed him in self-defense before fleeing in a panic.

Meanwhile, Kevin is suspended for creating the false wanted posters - for crimes that were not committed - and for drinking on the job. He turns out to be Katie's (Erin's) husband, still alive and well. A flashback reveals that on the night Katie ran away, she stabbed Kevin with a knife when he attacked her in a drunken rage. Enraged, he breaks into Katie's former neighbor's home in Boston and gets the phone number to the restaurant where Katie works. Arriving in time for the town's Fourth of July parade, a severely intoxicated Kevin sees Katie kissing Alex, which enrages him. That evening, Katie has a dream that she is standing on the docks watching the fireworks when Jo comes up and tells Katie that "he" is here. Katie wakes up in the convenience store next to a sleeping Lexie when Kevin suddenly appears and confronts her, demanding that she go back with him. She refuses and tells him to leave. Kevin pulls a gun and pours gasoline all over the store, with the intent to burn it down.

Katie buys time by faking sympathy and agreeing to go back with him. When he lets his guard down, she pushes him into the water. A firework spark lands on the gasoline, igniting a fire that engulfs the store. Alex sees the burning store, quickly crosses the harbor by boat, and saves Lexie. Meanwhile, as Katie tries to fight off Kevin, the gun goes off and kills him.

After the fire, Alex recovers several letters written by his late wife Carly before she died. They were prepared ahead of time for memorable events such as Josh's eighteenth birthday and Lexie's wedding day. He also reconciles with Josh.

Jo later tells Katie that she will be leaving Southport soon. Katie thanks her for being a good friend and Jo tells her, "You deserve this, Katie. You belong here."

Alex gives Katie a letter with the words "To Her" on the envelope. It explains that Alex must be in love to have given her the letter and she hopes that she feels the same, wishing that she could be there with them. Enclosed with the letter is a photo of Alex's late wife. Katie realizes that her neighbor "Jo" was the ghost of Carly watching over them.

####Siberia####
American diamond merchant Lucas Hill travels to Russia to sell rare blue diamonds to gangster Boris Volkov. However, his contact in St. Petersburg, Pyotr who had the diamonds has gone missing. Boris threatens Lucas to deliver the diamonds in 48 hours.

Following Pyotr's clues, Lucas arrives at a guest house in Mirny, Siberia, a rough mining town. He briefly contacts his wife Gabby through Skype. He goes to a cafe and starts a fight with two drunks who are harassing a cafe owner named Katya, who saves him after they jump him in the parking lot. Later, her brother Ivan suspects her of sleeping with Lucas, so she defiantly asks him to sleep with her.

Lucas meets Pyotr's brother Andrei who tells him that Pyotr sold counterfeit diamonds to a man named Samsonov and hid the real ones. Enraged, Lucas goes back to Katya's home. They start a passionate affair and Lucas lets Katya know that his relationship with his wife is more of a habit than a love story. Lucas goes bear hunting with Ivan and Katya's other brothers, who mock-threaten him. Lucas earns Ivan's respect when Lucas puts Ivan's dog out of its misery after accidentally being shot by Ivan’s brother.

Lucas returns to Pyotr's apartment in St. Petersburg to search again for the diamonds, and finds one hidden in a candle that is real. Remembering a similar candle in the Mirny guest house, he asks Katya to bring it to him, finding another diamond inside, which is a fake. Lucas meets Boris, along with Katya to show the real diamond promising him to return with the rest later. To solidify their deal, Boris demands a ritual of brotherhood where Boris’s woman services Lucas and Lucas' woman (Katya) services Boris. Reluctant at first, Lucas agrees when Boris convinces Katya that refusal of such an offer is deadly, so she tells Lucas to agree.

Returning to his hotel, Lucas is met by FSB agents who arrested Samsonov. They pressure Lucas to sell the fake diamonds to Boris, which Pyotr had sold to Samsonov, and get the money to the agents. In return, they promise him safe passage to home. Lucas and the FSB know that once Boris finds out, he will kill his wife and Katya and Lucas won't be able to hide long. Lucas manages to convince Boris to buy the diamonds and wire the money to the agents' account, but he gets a warning from Boris' henchman Pavel of the consequences if he is betraying him.

Pyotr's brother Andrei tells Lucas where to find Pyotr, hiding in an old farm in Siberia. With help from Katya's brother, Ivan, and with Katya tagging along, Lucas goes there and he and Ivan find Pyotr murdered, leaving no way to retrieve the real diamonds. Lucas tells Ivan to let Katya know that his love for her is real when everything is finished. Lucas promises to meet Katya the next morning, while Ivan lends him his hunting rifle, knowing that there is no other way this could end but violently with Boris's henchmen. Katya and Ivan leave and Lucas burns down the shack where Pyotr's body was found.

Pavel and a few henchmen find Lucas at the farmhouse. Lucas manages to kill some of the henchmen while trying to escape, but he is shot in the back by Pavel and dies.

####Someone to Watch Over Me####
Socialite Claire Gregory attends a party and art show sponsored by one of her oldest friends, Winn Hockings. Accompanying her is her straitlaced boyfriend, Neil Steinhart. In another part of town, there is another party, this one for newly appointed NYPD detective Mike Keegan.

Winn is accosted by a former partner, Joey Venza, who is angry because Winn had not come to him to borrow money for his new art studio. After a short argument, he stabs Winn to death. Claire witnesses the killing as she steps out of the elevator; she screams and is spotted by Venza. He pursues her, but she manages to get back into the elevator just in time.

The police are called in and the new detective Keegan is there. He is a married man, but immediately falls for Claire. Along with fellow cops, he is assigned to protect Claire until she can make a positive ID of Venza (once he is arrested) and testify in court.

Keegan is determined to protect Claire and goes to extremes to do so. Venza makes numerous threats and attempts on her life, nearly succeeding at one point. Keegan and his wife Ellie separate over his involvement in the case. He and Claire acknowledge their love but Keegan cannot bring himself to simply abandon his family.

At the end, Venza, who draws out Keegan by taking his son hostage, is shot by Ellie and killed. Claire breaks up with Neil and intends to go to Europe to get over Keegan, who returns to his wife and son.

####Submergence####
A talented and idiosyncratic bio-mathematician, Danielle Flinders is staying at a seaside hotel on the coast of Normandy where she meets the British Agent James More awaiting transport to Somalia to search for Somali Jihadist leaders. The two develop a friendly bond during their stay and eventually a romantic relationship. Their conversations mostly revolve around her important undersea work, which she believes may have insights into life on other planets. As they are getting to know each other, More mostly diverts away from his profession and claims he is a water engineer for African non-profits. Her odd, introspective thoughts on life and death in the darkness are attractive and bewildering to More. At one point (with recent bombings on his mind, and stopping the terrorists) More becomes angry with Flinders' mono-dimensional, scientific view of life on earth. However, when they depart for their individual missions, it is clear that they have a deep affection for each other and plan to reunite.

Upon landing in Somalia, More is kidnapped by suspicious Somali terrorists. They do not believe he is a hydrology engineer working for a non-profit. He is shifted to various hiding places and tortured. He holds fast to his story and is promoted up to the next set of leaders, who are determined to break him. His captors, however, have not discovered that a fake bridge in his teeth hold some sort of device. He eventually is taken away by the group's main warlord after witnessing horrible war crimes against women and Somali residents who do not abide by strict Islamic Law. Dr. Shadid, patches him up but warns him that he will be killed eventually.

Meanwhile Flinders is aboard a research vessel in the Greenland Sea with a deep-sea submersible awaiting her turn to visit an undersea sea vent which may prove her theory about life through chemically-based life (lack of light). As the mission goes on, his lack of communication puts her a great unease and her performance on the mission is becoming an issue. She asks to leave the ship in order to get into better internet communication as she is obsessed with More. She is saddened and very distracted by his rejection and is resigned to losing him. She returns to the vessel in time for her long-awaited research voyage in the submersible.

More is taken to a beach enclave which is very close to a United States military base. The Jihadists plan to run a series of suicide bombings to kill the troops. The warlord insists he knows that More is an Mi6 agent and various torturous mind tricks still do not break him.

Simultaneously Flinders, at the bottom of the sea, finally collects samples for her studies. Suddenly the sub loses all power and attempts to reboot the batteries fail. Lit with only a dim laptop, she again recites her prescient gloomy thoughts on the ultimate darkness and life and death. The recitation puts the crew into a panic mode, but her thoughts move to the time at the hotel with More. The crew suddenly manages to engage the backup batteries much to everyones' relief including Flinders. The submersible rises slowly back to surface as she leaves her mission behind.

More, left sitting on the beach, exhausted, overhears plans of the attack as they construct their suicide vests. He turns away and extracts the bridge from his mouth which is a micro GPS beacon. While they are distracted he walks towards the ocean. Suddenly an Apache helicopter armed with missiles destroys the entire complex just as More jumps into the ocean and submerges himself against the shockwave.

The last scenes of the movie are More rolling over to face the bright sun. The film fades to white and Flinders' face dimly appears.

####Suspicion####
In 1938, handsome, irresponsible playboy Johnnie Aysgarth (Cary Grant) meets bespectacled Lina McLaidlaw (Joan Fontaine) on a train in England and later persuades her to take a walk with him. She is defensive and suspects his motives; he insults her in a ploy to create familiarity. But later, at a window, she overhears her parents talking about her. They assume she will never marry, and hurt by this she kisses Johnnie.

She hopes to hear from him but he cancels their afternoon date and then vanishes. However, he returns for a hunt ball a week later and charms her into eventually eloping despite the strong disapproval of her wealthy father, General McLaidlaw (Sir Cedric Hardwicke). After a lavish honeymoon and returning to an extravagant house, Lina discovers that Johnnie has no job and no income, habitually lives on borrowed money, and was intending to try to sponge off her father. She talks him into getting a job, and he goes to work for his cousin, estate agent Captain Melbeck (Leo G. Carroll).

Gradually, Lina learns that Johnnie has continued to gamble wildly, despite promising to quit, and that to pay a gambling debt, he sold two antique chairs (family heirlooms) that her father had given her as a wedding present. Beaky (Nigel Bruce), Johnnie's good-natured but naive friend, tries to reassure Lina that her husband is a lot of fun and a highly entertaining liar. She repeatedly catches Johnnie in ever more significant lies, discovering that he was fired weeks before for embezzling from Melbeck, who says he will not prosecute if the money is repaid.

Lina writes a letter to Johnnie that she is leaving him, but then tears it up. After this, Johnnie enters the room and shows her a telegram announcing her father's death. Johnnie is severely disappointed to discover that Lina has inherited no money, only her father's portrait. He convinces Beaky to finance a hugely speculative land development scheme. Lina is afraid this is a confidence trick or worse, and futilely tries to talk Beaky out of it. Johnnie overhears and angrily warns his wife to stay out of his affairs, but later he calls the whole thing off.

When Beaky leaves for Paris, Johnnie accompanies him partway. Later, news reaches Lina that Beaky died in Paris. Johnnie lies to her and an investigating police inspector, saying that he (Johnnie) stayed in London. This and other details lead Lina to suspect he was responsible for Beaky's death.

Lina then begins to fear that her husband is plotting to kill her for her life insurance. He has been questioning her friend Isobel Sedbusk (Auriol Lee), a writer of mystery novels, about untraceable poisons. Johnnie brings Lina a glass of milk before bed, but she is too afraid to drink it. Needing to get away for a while, she says she will stay with her mother for a few days. Johnnie insists on driving her there. He speeds recklessly in a powerful convertible on a dangerous road beside a cliff. Lina's door unexpectedly swings open. Johnnie reaches over, his intent unclear to the terrified woman. When she shrinks from him, he stops the car.

In the subsequent confrontation, Johnnie asserts that he was actually intending to commit suicide after taking Lina to her mother's. At this time he states that he has decided that suicide is the coward's way out, and is resolved to face his responsibilities, even to the point of going to prison for the embezzlement. He reveals being in Liverpool at the time of Beaky's death, trying to borrow on Lina's life insurance policy to repay Melbeck. Her suspicions allayed, Lina asks him to go home and see it all through together. Johnnie initially refuses but eventually they drive away together.

####The Tamarind Seed####
After the death of her husband in a fiery car crash, and a failed love affair with married man Group Captain Richard Paterson, Judith Farrow, an attractive British Home Office assistant, meets handsome Soviet attaché Colonel Sverdlov while on vacation in Barbados, but their budding personal relationship does not go unnoticed by British intelligence. Judith is enchanted by a story that the seeds of a tamarind tree on a certain plantation take the form of the head of a slave hanged from a tamarind, a tale mocked by Sverdlov. Returning to London, Judith finds a surprise gift from Sverdlov: an envelope containing a tamarind seed.

Convinced Sverdlov is recruiting Judith to be a spy, British intelligence officer Jack Loder has his hands full with a clandestine Russian spy, code-named "Blue", when he learns his assistant, George MacLeod, is having an affair with the wife of a British diplomat, Fergus Stephenson, who is a conduit of state secrets. Loder cautions Judith, who is to contact him if she hears from Sverdlov.

Meanwhile Sverdlov, assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Paris, suspects his boss, General Golitysn, distrusts him, and insists Judith can be recruited as a spy, a story he shares with Judith when he visits her in London. Amidst drumbeat of suspicions on the cusp of betrayal and blackmail, a gaggle of real and possible double-agents abound in a tangled web amidst a budding Sverdlov-Judith love story that could also be a ruse.

Sverdlov pleads with Golitsyn for more time to recruit demure Judith, a ploy that’s wearing thin with the suspicious General. Sverdlov steals the "Blue" file, his bargaining chip with London to get asylum in Canada, and he finagles a romantic stop in Barbados where he’s to meet Judith.

Sverdlov eludes an assassination attempt by Golitsyn’s agents at London Airport and meets Judith in Barbados where they are sequestered in a beachside bungalow, where they eventually consummate their relationship. But the General is hot on his tail and jets a group of Soviet agents disguised as wealthy businessmen on holiday to attack the bungalow with napalm, an explosive bullet-riddled event that kills most of the agents, reportedly kills Sverdlov, destroys the "Blue" file, and traumatizes Judith, who narrowly escapes with her life.

Loder now knows "Blue" is Fergus Stephenson, a double agent he can now manipulate with low-grade information for Moscow, until the Soviets eventually believe Stephenson is a double agent against themselves and kill him, Loder postulates. Loder meets convalescing shell-shocked Judith in Barbados where he divulges that newspaper accounts of Sverdlov’s death were a false cover; seconds before the explosion Sverdlov was whisked away to Canada by MacLeod. Her doubts dissolve when Loder gives her an envelope that contains a tamarind seed.

Later on, in a bucolic Canadian mountain valley, Judith and Sverdlov share a lovers' embrace.

####Thirst Street####
Gina (Lindsay Burdge) is an American flight attendant in her mid-30s who is still coming to terms with the suicide of her boyfriend (played in flashbacks by Damien Bonnard). During a layover in Paris, she and two of her co-workers end up at a strip club, thinking it will be a cabaret. There she meets the manager, Jerome (Bonnard); she is drawn to him in part because of his resemblance to her late boyfriend. The two have a one-night stand, and then she comes back the next day and the two have sex again. On a whim, Gina decides to quit her job, move to Paris, and get an apartment across the street from Jerome's; she then also gets a job as a waitress at the strip club, all in an attempt to start a relationship with Jerome. Jerome shows growing discomfort with her, and rekindles his relationship with his on-again, off-again rock singer girlfriend, Clémence, eventually proposing to Clémence. Depressed, Gina stops paying her rent checks or going to work, resulting in her being kicked out of her apartment and fired from her job. She decides to devote herself full-time to getting together with Jerome, and lies to him that she is pregnant with his child. After finding out the truth, Jerome runs away from Gina into the street and is hit by a car, ending up in a coma. Gina tells the people at the hospital that she is Jerome's fiancée, and receives his possessions, including the engagement ring he bought, which she proudly wears.

####To Catch a Thief####
Retired jewel thief John "The Cat" Robie is suspected by the police in a string of burglaries on the French Riviera. When they come to his hilltop villa to question him, he slips their grasp and heads to a restaurant owned by his friend Bertani. The restaurant's staff are members of Robie's old gang, who have been paroled for their work in the French Resistance during World War II. They are angry at Robie because they are all under suspicion as long as the new Cat is active. When the police arrive at the restaurant looking for Robie, Foussard's daughter spirits him to safety; Danielle is a young woman who fancies him dearly.

Robie realizes he can prove his innocence by catching the new Cat in the act. He enlists the aid of an insurance man, H. H. Hughson, who reluctantly discloses a list of the most expensive jewelry owners currently on the Riviera. American tourists Jessie Stevens, a wealthy nouveau riche widow, and her daughter Frances, top the list. Robie strikes up a friendship with them. Frances feigns modesty at first, but kisses Robie at the end of the night before retiring to her room.

The day after, Frances invites Robie to a swim at the beach, where Robie runs into Danielle.  He keeps up his cover of being a wealthy American tourist, despite Danielle's jealous barbs about his interest in Frances. Frances accompanies Robie on a "picnic" to a villa, where Robie suspects the new Cat might break in. Frances reveals that she knows Robie's real identity. He initially denies it, but concedes it that evening when she has invited him to her room to watch a fireworks display. They kiss passionately.

The next morning, Jessie discovers her jewels are gone. Frances accuses Robie of using her as a distraction, so he could steal her mother's jewelry. The police are called, but by the time they reach Jessie's room, Robie has disappeared.

Later, Robie is staking out an estate at night when he is attacked by an unknown assailant. A second attacker raises a wrench and appears to hit Robie, who falls off the estate's seawall into the water. But when the police reach the body in the water, it turns out to be Foussard, one of the staff at Bertani's restaurant.

The police chief publicly announces that Foussard was the jewel thief, but, as Robie points out privately in the abashed Hughson's presence, this would have been impossible because Foussard had a wooden leg, and could not climb on rooftops.

Foussard's funeral is interrupted by Danielle's loud accusation that Robie is responsible for her father's death. Outside the graveyard, Frances apologizes to Robie and confesses her love. Robie asks Frances to arrange his attendance at a fancy masquerade ball, where he believes the Cat will strike again.

Robie accompanies Frances to the ball dressed as a masked Moor. The police hover nearby. Upstairs, the cat burglar silently cleans out several jewel boxes. When Jessie addresses the Moor as "John" and asks him to go and get her "heart pills", the authorities are tipped off as to his identity. Upon the masked Moor's return, the police wait as he and Frances dance together all night. When the masked Moor and Frances go to her room, the mask is removed: it was Hughson, who switched places with Robie to conceal Robie's exit.

Robie lurks on the rooftop, and his patience is finally rewarded when he spots a figure in black, who is revealed to be Danielle. The police throw a spotlight on him and demand he halt, giving Danielle the chance to slip away from him. He flees as they shoot at him, but he nonetheless manages to corner his foe with jewels in hand. She loses her footing on the roof, but Robie grabs her hand before she falls. While she hangs in his grasp, he forces her to confess to the police and admit that Bertani was the ringleader of this gang.

Robie speeds back to his villa. Frances follows to convince him that she has a place in his life. He agrees, but looks less than thrilled when she says, "Mother will love it up here."

####The Tourist####
A British woman, Elise Clifton-Ward (Angelina Jolie), is being followed through downtown Paris by French police who are working with Scotland Yard under the direction of Inspector John Acheson (Paul Bettany). Acheson has spent years hunting Alexander Pearce, Elise's lover, who owes £744 million in back taxes, and is believed to have received plastic surgery to alter his appearance. He is also being hunted by Reginald Shaw (Steven Berkoff), a mobster from whom Pearce stole $2.3 billion. At a Parisian cafe, Elise receives written instructions from Pearce: board the train to Venice, Italy; pick out a man; and let the police believe that he is Pearce. Elise burns the note, evades the police, and boards the train.

On the train, Elise selects Frank Tupelo (Johnny Depp), a mathematics teacher from a community college in Wisconsin. Acheson salvages information about the plan from the remains of the burned note. Aware of her location, but not of the ruse, a policeman on Shaw's payroll alerts Shaw that Pearce is on the train to Venice with Elise. Shaw immediately proceeds to Venice.

In Venice, Elise invites Frank to stay with her at the Hotel Danieli, where she receives instructions from Pearce to attend a ball. She abandons Frank, who is then chased by Shaw's men. While trying to escape, he is detained by the Italian police, and a corrupt inspector attempts to turn him over to Shaw's men for a bounty. Elise rescues Frank just before he is handed over, leading Shaw's men on an extended boat chase before finally escaping. She leaves Frank at the airport with his passport and money, urging him to go home for his own safety.

Elise goes to see Acheson, who has come to Venice, and is revealed to be an undercover Scotland Yard agent who was under suspension for her suspected sympathies with Pearce. She agrees to participate in a sting operation to bring Pearce to justice. As she tries to find Pearce at the ball, a man places an envelope on her table and disappears into the crowd. She tries to follow him, but is stopped by Frank, who claims to be in love with her and invites her to dance. The police arrive and take Frank into protective custody. Elise reads the note and leaves in her boat, tailed by Shaw and the police.

When Elise gets to the house to which Pearce's note directed her, Shaw takes her hostage, threatening to harm her unless she reveals the location of a hidden safe where Pearce is keeping the stolen money. The police monitor the situation from outside, and Acheson repeatedly refuses to allow Italian police snipers to intervene to rescue Elise. While the police are distracted monitoring the situation, Frank escapes and confronts Shaw, claiming to be Pearce and offering to open the safe if Elise is allowed to leave. Shaw tells Frank to open the safe or he will have Elise tortured. Chief Inspector Jones arrives at the police stake-out, overrides Acheson, and orders the snipers to fire, killing Shaw and his men. Then, to Elise's obvious pleasure, Jones lifts her suspension and fires her.

Acheson receives a message that Pearce has been found nearby, but, on arrival, he learns the police have detained an Englishman who says he is only a tourist being paid to follow instructions and is not Pearce. Elise tells Frank that she loves him, but she also loves Pearce. Frank opens the safe by entering the correct code, revealing that he was Alexander Pearce all along. When the police come back and open the safe with explosives, they find a check for £744 million. Acheson wants to keep pursuing Pearce, but, since the taxes are now paid, Jones closes the case. Pearce and Elise sail away together.

####Vertigo####
After a rooftop chase in which a fellow policeman falls to his death, San Francisco detective John "Scottie" Ferguson retires out of fear of heights and vertigo. Scottie tries to conquer his fear, but his ex-fiancée, underwear designer Marjorie 'Midge' Wood, says that another severe emotional shock may be the only cure.

Gavin Elster, an acquaintance from college, asks Scottie to follow his wife, Madeleine, claiming that she has been behaving strangely and her mental state is abnormal. Scottie reluctantly agrees and follows Madeleine to a florist, where she buys a bouquet, to the Mission San Francisco de Asís and the grave of Carlotta Valdes (1831–1857), and to the Legion of Honor art museum, where she gazes at the "Portrait of Carlotta". He watches her enter the McKittrick Hotel, but upon investigation, she does not seem to be there.

A local historian explains that Carlotta Valdes committed suicide: she had been the mistress of a wealthy married man and borne his child; the otherwise childless man kept the child and cast Carlotta aside. Gavin reveals that Carlotta (who he fears is possessing Madeleine) is Madeleine's great-grandmother, although Madeleine has no knowledge of this and does not remember the places she has visited. Scottie tails Madeleine to Fort Point and when she leaps into the bay, he rescues her.

The next day, Madeleine stops to deliver a letter of gratitude to Scottie, and they decide to spend the day together. They travel to Muir Woods and Cypress Point on 17-Mile Drive, where Madeleine runs down towards the ocean. Scottie grabs her and they embrace. The following day, Madeleine visits Scottie and recounts a nightmare. Scottie identifies its setting as Mission San Juan Bautista, the childhood home of Carlotta. He drives her there and they express their love for each other. Madeleine suddenly runs into the church and up the bell tower. Scottie, halted on the steps by his acrophobia, sees Madeleine plunge to her death.

The death is declared a suicide. Gavin does not fault Scottie, but Scottie breaks down, becomes clinically depressed and is sent to a sanatorium, almost catatonic. Following his release, Scottie frequents the places that Madeleine visited, often imagining that he sees her. One day, he notices a woman on the street who reminds him of Madeleine, despite her different appearance. Scottie follows her to her hotel room, where she identifies herself as Judy Barton, from Salina, Kansas.

Judy has a flashback revealing that she was the person Scottie knew as "Madeleine Elster." She was impersonating Gavin's wife in an elaborate murder scheme. Judy drafts a letter to Scottie explaining her involvement: Gavin deliberately took advantage of Scottie's acrophobia to substitute his wife's freshly killed body in the apparent "suicide jump." However, Judy rips up the letter and continues the charade because she loves Scottie.

They begin seeing each other, but Scottie remains obsessed with "Madeleine." He asks Judy to change her clothes and dye her hair to resemble Madeleine. After Judy complies, hoping that they may finally find happiness together, he notices her wearing the necklace portrayed in Carlotta's painting. Scottie realizes the truth and insists on driving Judy back again to the Mission.

There, he tells her he must re-enact the event that led to his madness, admitting he now understands that "Madeleine" and Judy are the same person, and that Judy was Gavin's mistress before being cast aside, just as Carlotta was. Scottie forces her up the bell tower and makes her admit her deceit. Scottie reaches the top, finally conquering his acrophobia. Judy confesses that Gavin paid her to impersonate a "possessed" Madeleine. Judy begs Scottie to forgive her because she loves him. He embraces Judy, but a shadowy figure — actually a nun investigating the noise — rises from the tower's trapdoor, startling her. Judy suddenly lunges backward and accidentally falls to her death. Scottie, bereaved once again but cured of his fear of heights, stands on the ledge while the nun rings the mission bell.

####Wicker Park####
Matt Simon, a young advertising executive, returns to Chicago with his fiancée Rebecca, after spending the last two years in New York. He bumps into his old friend Luke on the way into a meeting at a restaurant, in preparation for a business trip to China. Once inside, Matt thinks he overhears Lisa, the beautiful dancer he was in love with two years before, who had vanished overnight. Unable to confront the woman he believes may be Lisa, he blows off the trip and instead embarks on an obsessive search for her, as the story of Matt and Lisa's romance unfolds in flashbacks.

A key card which the woman leaves at the restaurant leads Matt to a hotel, where he finds Lisa's silver compact and an article marked in a newspaper. He leaves a note for Lisa at the restaurant bar, borrows Luke's car, and trails the man from the newspaper article to an apartment. There Matt discovers a note to Lisa under the door, with her key enclosed. The apartment is deserted, but he leaves Lisa a note himself, to meet him in Wicker Park, and keeps the key. An ecstatic Matt returns the car to Luke, who is furious because he has missed a date with his new girlfriend Alex. When Alex calls, Matt takes the blame and Luke is mollified.

The next day, after waiting in vain at Wicker Park, Matt goes back to the apartment and is caught by a woman who is also named Lisa. She says the apartment is hers, but she has a coat and red-soled shoes with a broken heel identical to Lisa's—shoes that came from Luke's shop, where Lisa first met Matt. She says that she was at the hotel because the man in the newspaper was stalking her, and asks Matt to stay the night. They end up sleeping together. Flashbacks reveal that this "Lisa" is actually Alex, Lisa's old neighbor and friend. Alex had fallen in love with Matt from afar, but he met and fell for Lisa before Alex found the courage to speak to him. The man from the newspaper was stalking Lisa, and Alex agreed to swap apartments with her for a few days before Lisa left for a new job in London.

Luke persuades Matt to come with him that night to see Alex perform in "Twelfth Night". She is unrecognizable in stage makeup, but panics after she sees Matt in the audience with Luke. Matt returns to the apartment, feels the real Lisa's presence in spite of its emptiness, and spends the night. Alex sleeps with Luke that night; in the morning, when Matt calls Luke, she answers the phone then drops it in a panic. She overhears Luke say Matt is at the apartment, and runs out to call him and meet him there. After receiving Matt's note at the restaurant, the real Lisa calls and asks Luke to tell Matt to meet her at three o'clock, saying he will know where. When Alex arrives at the apartment, Matt gives her another pair of red-soled shoes, Lisa's size, but they are too big. She realizes he suspects something, but Matt says he can exchange them and leaves. Alex then calls Luke and asks him to meet her at the restaurant.

Now suspicious, Matt follows "Lisa" (Alex), bumps into Luke, and follows him into the restaurant to finally meet Alex, the girl Luke is in love with. Matt confronts Alex, her deception revealed. A flashback reveals that two years ago, the same day that Matt asked Lisa to move in with him, Lisa was offered a last minute job touring with a show in Europe and had to jump on a plane. Lisa had given Alex a note to deliver to Matt, telling him she loved him and wanted to live with him. Instead, Alex had kept the note, deleted all the messages Lisa had left for Matt on his answering machine, and told Lisa that she had caught Matt in bed with another woman. Matt never learned why Lisa left, seemingly without a word. In the present, a confused Luke tells Matt that Lisa called and wants him to meet her at three o'clock before she returns to London. Matt is unsure where to meet, but Alex gives him Lisa's old note and he realizes that Lisa is at Wicker Park. Arriving too late, Matt then races to the airport, and is met by Rebecca, who has come to pick him up from the business trip to China he never went on. He confesses that he still loves someone else and cannot marry her. Lisa is nearby on the phone, listening to Alex admit what she has done and apologize. Matt sees Lisa through the crowd and comes up behind her. She senses he is there, turns to kiss him, and they are reunited.

####Zebrahead####
Zachary "Zack" is an eighteen-year-old introverted Jewish DJ and rapper, who lives with his chauvinistic father Richard, who runs a record store specializing in blues and jazz music. Zack's mother died when he was very young. Zack's best childhood friend is a young black man named Dee, who along with Zack is also a rapper, and both of them record music together. Zack works part-time at an Italian restaurant. In Zack's neighborhood, there is an eccentric man named Dominic who is a pyromaniac that lives on land adjacent to an industrial power plant.

One day at school, Zack gets into a quarrel with his girlfriend Michelle, and the both of them separate from each other. During this fight, he sees a new transfer student who just moved from New York, a black teenager named Nicole "Nikki", who turns out to be Dee's cousin. Zack becomes infatuated with Nikki despite never talking to her.

One night, Zack comes over for dinner at Dee's house. Zack confides in Dee that he is attracted to Nikki, to which the fact of him being a white man, and she is a black woman, he feels scared to proceed. Dee tells Zack that he shouldn't be concerned over that, however, Dee's father warns Zack that he might receive negativity from this. Zack then decides to finally introduce himself to Nikki, although not fully disclosing his full feelings towards her.

Zack talks to his grandfather Saul, at the record store his father runs for advice on how to deal with his current situation. To which he tells him (as Zack is a musician), to woo Nikki with his DJ skills. The following day at school, Zack brings his turntable set in the gymnasium and starts to DJ urban music. Some of the students, especially Nikki, seem to enjoy the music and are dancing to it. However, this causes friction between many of the black students who believe he's culturally appropriating, including Larry, who is into Pan-Africanism, and Calvin "Nut", one of the school's delinquent bullies.

Zack and Nikki become closer to each other. While picking up Nikki for a date one night at her home, Nut (who lives next door to Nikki), and some of his friends harass and say racial epithets to Zack and sexually suggestive rude comments to Nikki. To which they both ignore them. Zack takes Nikki to his father's record store, to where they have their first kiss. Soon after that, one day after school, Zack brings Nikki to his house, and they both make love, to which Zack's father secretly watches them in amusement. Zack soon introduces Nikki to his father, to which he couldn't care less that Nikki is black. Zack invites Nikki to a house party with some of his extended friends, to which she is the only black person there. In which Nikki meets Michelle, his ex-girlfriend to where she seems to be happy that Zack and Nikki are together. Nikki seems uncomfortable at the party, and unfortunately walks into Zack and some of his friends making friendly, yet disrespectful racist sexual jokes towards Nikki. Outraged, Nikki runs out of the party and breaks up with Zack. Nikki avoids Zack, and after telling Dee what happened, he as well distances himself from Zack. Nut and his friends, (and other black classmates at her school), tell Nikki that Zack was playing some type of sick game with her, and she needs to stay away from him. Nut also briefly seduces Nikki, to which at first she accepts his advances, but she later rejects them.

After making amends and apologizing to Dee, Zack goes to Nikki's house and apologizes to her on her front porch. Nikki decides to remain friends with Zack and invites him to a roller rink later that night, in which some of the other students from school will be there. Nut, who was eavesdropping on Zack apologizing to Nikki, becomes envious and angered. At the roller skating rink, Nut sexually harasses Nikki, which she tells him to leave her alone. Zack, who arrives late, notices Nut agitating her and tells him to stop. Nut and Zack begin to fight, to which Dee also walks over and pushes Nut to the ground. Nut then fatally shoots Dee and runs out of the skating rink.

At Dee's funeral, Zack gives a eulogy to Dee in Aramaic (the Mourner's Kaddish, a Jewish ritual, is recited in Aramaic, rather than Hebrew). Nikki while walking home from the funeral, is attacked by Nut who threatens to kill her. Nut then runs away. The following day at school, many of Zack and Nikki's classmates both talk about what happened at the skating rink. The discussion later turns heated into the fact that many classmates believe if Zack and Nikki never got together, Dee would never be shot. Nikki then quickly dismisses that fact and runs out of the classroom. The rest of the class continues into a heated racial discussion with Zack staying silent watching. After Vinnie and Larry start to get into a verbal fight, Zack runs out of the classroom. He runs into the school principal Mr. Cimino, who tells Zack to stick with his own race when it comes to relationships. He ignores him and walks past him. Back in the classroom, Vinnie and Larry start to physically fight and they both tussle outside in the hallway. Zack notices Nikki crying in the hall and goes over to comfort her, then they passionately hug.

####Just Wright####
Leslie Wright, a physical therapist and die-hard basketball fan, is searching for a boyfriend but keeps being told by men that they see her only as a friend. After buying a house, Leslie allows her good friend and god-sister, Morgan, to stay at her home. The flighty and irresponsible Morgan dreams of becoming an NBA trophy wife.

Following a New Jersey Nets basketball game, Leslie helps star player Scott McKnight at a gas station. They share a friendly conversation about basketball and jazz, and Scott invites Leslie to his birthday party. Leslie attends the party but also brings Morgan who quickly sets her sights on Scott. Intent on getting his interest, Morgan pretends to volunteer at a homeless shelter and claims to have no interest in Scott at all. He is intrigued and tracks her down. After dating for three months, he proposes and, while Leslie expresses some skepticism about the relationship, she is ultimately pleased that Morgan is happy.

At the 2009 NBA All-Star Game, Scott suffers a torn PCL injury that puts his entire career in jeopardy. Morgan becomes suspicious of Scott's physical therapist, a beautiful blonde woman, and begs Leslie to take over as his live-in physical therapist. However, tensions arise as Morgan is now forced to spend more time with Scott and finds herself disliking him. As rumors circle that Scott's career could quickly end if he doesn't recover by the playoffs, Morgan decides to leave Scott by leaving him a letter.

Despite the awkward breakup, Leslie continues to work with Scott. She encourages and helps him with his recovery and helps to build his confidence. They also bond over their mutual love of basketball and music. Scott expresses surprise that Leslie is not seeing anyone and begins to see her in a more romantic light and she discovers that he plays piano, a talent he confides is his secret hobby.

Scott is able to return to the NBA just before the playoffs and wins his first game back after a pep-talk from Leslie. As a thank you, he presents her with her grandfather's classic Mustang which he has had remodelled and restored, but also paid extra to leave a dent in the side door intact as Leslie says it reminds her of her grandfather. After taking her to dinner, They first share a kiss, and then spend the night together.

The next morning, Morgan arrives at Scott's door hoping to reconcile, saying that she has been in therapy to work on the abandonment issues which led her to leave Scott in the first place. Broken-hearted, Leslie believes she has no chance against Morgan and decides to leave. Scott, who feels he owes it to Morgan to try to work things out, reluctantly lets Leslie go.

However, tensions quickly arise between Morgan and Scott as she continues planning their wedding while he wants to take things slow. Meanwhile, Leslie is surprised to discover she's being headhunted by many basketball teams impressed by her notable work helping Scott's recovery from his injury. Excited to get an offer from the Nets, Leslie realizes she would have to work with Scott and reluctantly turns the offer down. She then decides to interview with teams far from where she lives to put some distance between Scott, Morgan, and herself.

During a televised interview, Scott credits Leslie with his recovery. After praising her, he comes to the realization that he loves her. Morgan, who has been watching the interview, also realizes Scott's feelings and urges him to reunite with Leslie.

Chasing Leslie to a job interview in Philadelphia, Scott tells her that he loves her and urges her to reconcile with him despite the anger she might feel. In response, Leslie places a phone call to the Nets and accepts a position with them.

A year later, Leslie and Morgan are watching Scott play. Leslie is now one of the Nets' athletic trainers and cheers loudly for Scott, who is at last revealed to be her husband.

####Loving####
Richard Loving, a white construction worker in Caroline County, Virginia, falls in love with a local black woman and family friend, Mildred Jeter. Upon Mildred discovering that she is pregnant, they decide to marry. Knowing that interracial marriage violates Virginia's anti-miscegenation laws, they drive to Washington, D.C. to get married in 1958. Richard makes plans to build a house for Mildred less than a mile from her family home.

Soon afterward, sheriff's deputies raid Mildred's home and arrest the Lovings. When Richard points to the marriage license, Sheriff Brooks curtly tells him that it has no validity in Virginia and hauls them both to jail. They plead guilty to breaking the anti-miscegenation law and are sentenced to one year in prison. However, the judge suspends the sentence, provided that they do not return to Virginia together for at least 25 years. The Lovings move to Washington to stay with a friend of Mildred. They briefly return to Caroline County so their first child, Sidney, can be delivered by Richard's mother, a midwife. Arrested again, they are cleared when their lawyer informs the judge he erroneously advised them to return.

Mildred and Richard have two other children together, Donald and Peggy. However, Mildred grows frustrated by being away from the country, and her frustration grows when she watches the March on Washington. She writes to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy for help. Kennedy refers them to the American Civil Liberties Union. Lawyer Bernard S. Cohen takes the case and confers with constitutional law expert Phil Hirschkop. They conclude that the Lovings' ordeal has a good chance of going all the way to the Supreme Court – and overturning similar anti-miscegenation laws across the nation.

After a minor auto accident involving one of their children, the Lovings decide to slip back into Virginia, settling in a remote portion of King and Queen County, while their case moves through the courts. Their case gains wide attention, and is profiled in "Life" magazine by photographer Grey Villet.  The state contends that people of different races were never intended to live together, and goes as far as to suggest the Lovings' children are bastards. The state Supreme Court refuses to set aside the Lovings' conviction. Undeterred, Cohen and Hirschkop appeal to the federal Supreme Court. Before going to Washington, Cohen asks Richard if he has a message for the justices. Richard replies, "Tell the judge I love my wife."

Several weeks later, the Supreme Court unanimously holds that laws prohibiting interracial marriage are unconstitutional. The Lovings return to Caroline County and resume construction on their dream house. An epilogue reveals Richard died in a car accident seven years later; Mildred never remarried and continued living in the house Richard built for her until her death in 2008.

####About Last Night####
Danny is a salesman working in the restaurant supply business along with his friend, ladies' man Bernie. Bernie invites Danny on a double date, where he meets Debbie, a friend of Joan, Bernie's latest sexual partner. He is still pining over his ex-girlfriend Alison, but begins a relationship with Debbie. They have a more conventional romance, while Bernie and Joan are constantly antagonistic towards each other, and eventually mutually end their relationship.

Several months later, Danny and Debbie move in together. Bernie regularly mocks Danny about his relationship, accusing him of being emasculated and under Debbie's control. Danny and Debbie begin to argue more frequently about a variety of topics, but particularly about Danny's apparent lack of commitment to their relationship. He is fired from his job for extending credit to bar owner Casey, and begins working at Casey's as a bartender.

While working, Danny is surprised by Alison. After she gets too drunk and refuses to go to her own home, Danny brings her to his apartment, where she flirts with him. The same night, Debbie, who is on a business trip, is propositioned by her coworker and ex Steven; both reject their exes.

After another argument at a New Year’s Eve party, Debbie breaks up with Danny and moves out. Both of them continue to be emotionally affected by their relationship, and have difficulty being with other people. Meanwhile, Bernie and Joan rekindle their relationship, based on their mutual enjoyment of antagonizing each other. Danny calls Debbie hoping to meet up, but is rejected.

Bernie and Joan's relationship continues to grow, eventually leading them to move in together, despite both of them having had discouraged Danny and Debbie from moving in while together. Walking the dog that he and Debbie got as a couple, he runs into her, they having been set up to run into each other by Bernie and Joan. They talk and agree to give their relationship another chance.

####Big Ain't Bad####
"Big Ain't Bad" is a romantic comedy that redefines the measure of love. Ric (Blakemore) and Natalie (Dixon) are a happy young couple headed towards marriage after a brief courtship. However, when Natalie makes an early return home from a business trip and finds her trusted mate in the company of last night's entertainment, the relationship abruptly ends leaving them to travel separate roads to self-discovery.

####Boomerang####
Advertising executive Marcus Graham is a serial womanizer, prone to lying to seduce women but unwilling to commit until he finds the "perfect woman." His friends Tyler and Gerard tell him his standards are too high, particularly his habit of judging women by their feet.

Marcus's company is acquired by cosmetics mogul Lady Eloise, who invites him to her home with amorous intentions; he spends the night with her, believing he will be promoted. The next day, he meets Jacqueline Broyer, who has been made head of his department instead. At a party to celebrate the merger, eccentric fashion diva Helen Strangé is announced as the new face of the company, and Jacqueline introduces Marcus to colleague Angela Lewis, whom he sets up with Gerard. Though they get along fine, Angela and Gerard learn that they're better as friends.

Despite his best efforts, Marcus is unable to woo Jacqueline. Over dinner at his apartment, she ignores his advances and is more interested in the basketball game on TV, leaving him frustrated. On a business trip to New Orleans, Jacqueline unexpectedly invites Marcus into her room, and they have sex. Afterward, he is relieved to find her feet up to his standards.

Marcus begins to fall for Jacqueline, but finds himself on the receiving end of his usual tactics: she ignores his feelings, manipulates him with sex, and keeps their relationship strictly on her terms. Discovering she has bragged about their trysts to Strangé, whose advances he is forced to reject, Marcus confronts Jacqueline, and she ends their affair. Marcus finds himself the subject of office gossip, and his work begins to suffer. After a major business proposal is almost ruined, Jacqueline forces Marcus to take a few paid weeks off as an alternative to being fired.

Marcus spends time with Angela, who tries to bring him out of his funk. After hosting Thanksgiving dinner with Tyler, Gerard, and Gerard's tactless parents, Marcus and Angela sleep together. Gerard is furious, believing Marcus will mistreat Angela like his past conquests. They move in together, but she is hurt when he downplays their relationship in a phone call with Jacqueline. Marcus, having regained his confidence, proves newly attractive to Jacqueline, and they sleep together again.

Marcus returns home to Angela in the middle of the night, and when she confronts him in the morning, he explains that he is confused by his feelings for her and for Jacqueline. She breaks up with him and takes a promotion at another company. Marcus rebounds with Jacqueline, but realizes his love for Angela; he returns home to find she has moved out. Marcus reconciles with Gerard, and visits Angela at her new job, convincing her that he is truly committed to her, and they get back together.

####Breakin' All the Rules####
Quincy Watson (Jamie Foxx) is unceremoniously dumped by his fiancée Helen (Bianca Lawson) during their engagement party. Devastated, he attempts to express his feelings to her with a heartfelt letter. His boss, Phillip (Peter MacNicol), has also given him the job of researching how to diplomatically lay off people at their company. As Quincy writes, the letter becomes a "how to" book on the correct way to end a relationship. He has a book published and becomes a best-selling author on the subject. Not wanting his male friends to suffer the same fate, he gives them advice on dumping their mates including Phillip, who is trying to break up with his gold-digger girlfriend Rita (Jennifer Esposito). After his cousin Evan (Morris Chestnut) reads Quincy's book he starts to question his relationship with his girlfriend Nicky (Gabrielle Union).

Mistakenly believing that Nicky wants to break up with him, Evan goes to his cousin Quincy and asks him to talk to her, hopefully convincing her that Evan's a good guy. Since Quincy has never met her, he does not know what she looks like so Evan tells him that she has long, black hair. (As it turns out, that day, Nicky had cut her hair to a short length she described as being like Halle Berry). Quincy and Nicky end up sitting next to each other at the bar where Nicky was supposed to meet Evan. Quincy tells her that he is looking for his cousin's ex-girlfriend Nicky who has long black hair.

Knowing that Quincy is Evan's cousin, Nicky lies and tells Quincy her name is Mary. During the time Quincy and Nicky are at the bar, Rita finds out that Philip is planning to break up with her. She goes to Quincy's house but when she gets there Evan lies and says that he's Quincy. The two begin an affair. Later, Evan goes to Nicky's house to break up with her, only to find that she was going to do the same, and has been seeing another man.

Changing his mind, Evan goes to Quincy's job and tells him that he thinks he is in love with Nicky, and that she has been seeing another man. During that conversation, Quincy realizes that 'Mary' is actually Nicky. At the party for Quincy's hot seller book, Helen is just back from Paris and has decided she wants to get back with Quincy. Evan had planned on proposing to Nicky at the party but finds out that Quincy is dating his ex-girlfriend. He becomes upset with him and leaves the party to look for Nicky.  The next day, Evan talks to Quincy and tells him he will marry Rita. Phillip had a heart attack, and at the hospital, Rita finds out that Evan lied to her. Instead of getting mad, she says she fell in love with him. Quincy breaks up with Helen and goes to look for Nicky. When he goes to her door, her neighbor tells him that she's leaving for Portland by train. He goes to look for her. As the train is speeding away he confesses his love for her and they both ride the train to Portland.

####How I Spent My Summer Vacation####
Perry (Lee) and Stephanie's (Davis) junior year in college has just ended. Though the two have been dating since high school, they both feel that the spark in the relationship is gone, and that their constant bickering, breaking up, and making up has become more like a game. They both decide the best thing to do is to call off the relationship before their senior year, so they can test the waters with other people. Perry begins to date Tammy, a young woman who actually has a boyfriend overseas. While he's very attracted to Tammy (Dixon), he can't really shake his yearning for Stephanie. Eventually Perry tries to reconcile their relationship, and finds that Stephanie might be testing waters of her own.

####Love Chronicles####
A pair of talk show hosts Sara (Paula Jai Parker) Troy aka T-Roy (Terrence Howard) team with a relationship-guide author Monifa Burley (Robin Givens) to help listeners improve their relationships. Eventually, the trio unwittingly expose their own love-related baggage. Love Chronicles screened at the American Black Film Festival in June 2003 & was released theatrically on December 31, 2003.

####Nappily Ever After####
Long plot|section|date=August 2022
Violet's (Sanaa Lathan) mother Paulette (Lynn Whitfield) always insists she look perfect. Paulette straightens her natural hair, but it takes time and she is occasionally burned by the iron. At a pool, a boy dares Violet to hold her breath longer underwater, so she jumps in, despite her mother's protests. Underwater, her hair instantly becomes naturally wild and frizzy. The other children start to tease her and call her chia pet, and her horrified mother takes her home.

As an adult, Violet is seemingly perfect: a successful advertising executive, has had her doctor boyfriend Clint (Ricky Whittle) for two years, and wears her hair long and straight (with great effort).

Her relationship with her mother continues to be close as she helps keep Violet the vision of perfection. She and Violet's father (Ernie Hudson) recently became estranged after he quit his job and became a model.

Violet expects Clint to propose on her birthday. After she accidentally gets sprayed by a neighbor’s kids, she urgently visits a hairdresser. The salonist's daughter erroneously causes some of Violet’s hair to fall out using relaxer. Causing a scene, Violet insults her afro as she was partly responsible for the incident, and then gets a weave.

At her birthday dinner, Clint gives Violet a dog instead of a ring, so she is very disappointed and confronts him later at home. He says she's always perfect and he doesn't really know her, including her favorite things. He also adds that being with her is like being on a two year first date. Violet breaks up with him, and he leaves.

As Violet goes shopping she notices Zoe shoplifting and drags her out of the store but gets stopped by a security guard. Zoe’s dad Will comes and is furious over what Zoe is doing but Violet thinks there is something wrong. Will says how would she tell him how to raise his child and they leave. An African American blonde woman goes into the mall with her boyfriend giving Violet an idea.

One night, Violet bleaches her hair blonde despite her friends thinking it's not her but still goes out with them to the club, and starts drinking. As she gets drunk, she goes home with a man. Thinking she's wild, they start foreplay, but they hit heads, leaving him bleeding. Violet leaves him and it rains so her hair starts to frizz and goes to see Clint at the hospital, only to find him with a new woman. Devastated, she goes home and gets drunk. Then she cries in the mirror and shaves her head. The next morning, Violet is horrified with what she has done. Wearing a scarf on her head, she cries in the bathroom at work. A woman there suggests she come to her support group, which she later discovers is for cancer survivors. Violet apologizes, but the group leader gives her words of support.

Over time, Violet grows confident with her new look. She begins dating Will (Lyriq Bent), from the salon, and befriending his daughter, Zoe (Daria Johns). Violet and Will quickly grow close, and he attends her mother's Fourth of July party. While there, he is disrespected by Paulette, who makes condescending comments about him and his career choice. He breaks it off with Violet, telling her to sort herself out.

After losing a pitch for an ad campaign with diverse women to a male colleague's idea using blonde models, Violet quits her job. At home, she dances to upbeat music while Clint, who is picking up his things is watching and appreciating her loosening up. As it has been months since the breakup, Clint is interested in Violet and apologizes, saying he never wanted her to think she wasn't beautiful. As the dog peed on Clint’s shirt, she allows him to shower. Then as she is joining him, they have sex. The next morning, Violet is preparing breakfast, but Clint insists she sits at the table, and cuts onions. He proposes with an onion ring and she says yes. Both she and her mom are excited, and Violet’s friends are told the wedding is in three months. Violet, who has stayed connected with Zoe, invites her to the engagement party.

Clint requests Violet straighten her hair to meet his parents, and Paulette helps straighten it. At the party, Violet meets Clint’s parents, feels pressured and uneasy, and goes off alone. Her heels are killing her, so she takes them off. Everyone is seated and waiting for her, so the parents look for her. Finding her, Violet says Zoe would go barefoot and knows who she is while she doesn't. Going barefoot to the pool, surrounded by tables of people, she jumps in and invites others. Zoe, Violet’s two girlfriends, and others join her. Violet’s father grabs her mother and they jump in, and make up with a kiss. Clint looks on, disappointedly.

Some days later, Violet and Will are in the conference room of an ad agency, and she is pitching Will’s plant-based hair products for women’s natural hair. After the meeting, Violet and Will walk out together, and after speaking briefly, Violet walks away confidently.

####You People####
Ezra Cohen, a thirty-five-year-old  finance broker and pop culture podcaster, falls into an unlikely relationship with stylist Amira Mohammed. The couple first meet in a meetcute with each other when Amira, frustrated with her GPS navigation system, parks in front of the building where Ezra works. Ezra, mistakenly believing Amira is his Uber driver, climbs into the car, setting off an awkward dust-up. Ezra makes amends for his mishap by later taking her out to lunch, and the two realize there is a mutual attraction despite their differences, as Ezra is Jewish, and Amira is Black and was raised by her parents who are devout followers of the Nation of Islam.

Amira and Ezra eventually move in together, to the chagrin of her father Akbar who prefers that his daughter date another Nation of Islam member. Six months into his relationship with Amira, Ezra takes her to meet his family. His parents Shelley and Arnold awkwardly explain that they are accepting and supportive of everyone, including their LGBT daughter Liza. When Shelley begins to bring up subjects related to the BLM movement, an embarrassed Ezra steers her out of the room. He confides to his mom that he plans on proposing to Amira. Before he can propose, Ezra is urged by his friend and fellow podcast host Mo to meet with Amira's parents. Ezra chooses a Roscoe’s Chicken ‘N Waffles restaurant to talk with Akbar and his wife, Fatima. The meeting does not go smoothly, as Akbar views Ezra with suspicion and shows resistance to his wish to marry Amira. When Amira comes home, she tells Ezra that her mother let her know about their awkward meeting at Roscoe’s. However, when Ezra begins to pull out a ring box, she urges him to go ahead with the proposal and happily accepts.

Ezra decides to quit his job at the brokerage firm to pursue his true passion for podcasting. Later, the couple invite both sets of parents over to their place for dinner and to discuss wedding plans. The dinner unsurprisingly goes awry, with the parents clashing over Farrahkhan's antisemitic views and Shelley inadvertently setting Akbar’s kufi on fire. Ezra and Amira arrange mutual one-on-one time with their future in-laws to help smooth over tensions. Ezra spends the day with Akbar, but Akbar constantly finds ways to undermine Ezra’s self-confidence, from criticizing Ezra's decision to quit finance for podcasting and bringing him to a barbershop where Ezra fails to conform with the dress code. He later takes Ezra to a basketball court in Inglewood, a mostly Black neighborhood, and urges him to play in a pickup game. Hoping to humiliate Ezra, Akbar films him with his phone, but to his surprise, Ezra does very well in the game. Meanwhile, Shelley takes Amira out for a spa day, but she continually shows her cluelessness, makes Amira uncomfortable, and is oblivious to her own microaggressions.

For his bachelor party, Ezra heads to Las Vegas with his friends, but his excitement for the weekend is dampened when Akbar unexpectedly joins the boys. Akbar insists on accompanying the men on their big night of partying at the strip clubs. Ezra, knowing he’s being watched by Akbar, does not take part in the festivities, but his character again comes into question when his friends loudly reminisce about the obscene acts Ezra previously committed in Vegas. At her bachelorette party in Palm Springs, Amira and her friends are joined by Shelley and Liza. The night suffers from more embarrassments, with Shelley inadvertently making a racist remark during a party game and accidentally ripping off a guest’s wig.

At the rehearsal dinner, both Ezra and Amira speak privately to Akbar and Shelley, with Ezra calling out Akbar’s distrust of his genuine love for Amira, and Amira informing Shelley about her tone-deaf attitudes on race. After their mutual talks, Ezra and Amira arrive at the realization that their union has too many obstacles to overcome. Feeling they are not right for each other, they call off the wedding and break up. Three months later, Ezra gives a meaningful soliloquy on his podcast, making a point that black and white people can never truly understand the other's experience, no matter how hard they try. Both Shelley and Akbar happen to hear his speech, and reconsider their actions; Akbar is inspired to contact Shelley. On the pretext of a shopping excursion, Shelley and Akbar bring Ezra and Amira to a trendy boutique where they both apologize for their actions. Ezra and Amira accept their apologies and enter the retail store to find it set up for their wedding, with everyone including friends, family, and a rabbi and NOI minister assembled. Ezra and Amira marry and both families celebrate.

####The Brothers####
Jackson Smith, Brian Palmer, Derrick West and Terry White are lifelong friends since childhood. The film has separate subplots with each character, showing how their friendships binds them.

Jackson, a physician, struggles with commitment issues and often has nightmares with a bride. When working through his issues with a therapist, she suggests he meet a woman that night and "give his heart to her." He soon meets a beautiful freelance photographer who makes Jackson realize that he may be capable of true love and commitment. When he finds out that Denise once dated his father, his new outlook on love takes a turn.

Brian, an attorney, realizes that his chronic womanizing is catching up to him in ways he didn't imagine when a former lover (also the judge in a case he is currently working) sends him to jail. He makes a vow to not date African-American women because he believes that they carry unnecessary drama. Brian is working to gain custody of his younger brother who currently lives in a affection-less household with his mother.

Derrick, the only married member of the group, loves his wife and daughter, but is struggling with the idea of his wife not giving him the type of sex he desires. After many attempts to convince his wife that pleasing your partner is an important part of a successful marriage, he and his wife separate. In addition to wanting more in the bedroom, Derrick is trying to convince his wife to let his ailing mother live in their home.

Terry, a former womanizer who is tired of playing the field and ready to settle down, is preparing to marry his girlfriend of two months, Bebe, despite the warnings of his friends who feel that he is rushing into the commitment. As his wedding day fast approaches, he'll have to decide if he is truly ready to make the leap into the rest of his life.

####Claudine####
The film tells the story of Claudine Price, a single black Harlem mother, living on welfare with six children, who finds love with a garbage collector, Rupert "Roop" Marshall. The pair's relationship is complicated by their poverty, the restrictions of the welfare system and the hostility of her children, particularly eldest son Charles, who believes that Roop will leave their mother just like her previous husbands had.
When Rupert is invited inside Claudine's shabby apartment, the children are rude and vulgar towards him.

Throughout the film, Miss Kabak, a social worker, visits Claudine at her home and asks her if she is employed and if she is dating anyone. Claudine always claims to be unemployed and single, to make sure to get the maximum amount of benefits, which she desperately needs. If Claudine has a job or dates anyone and receives gifts from her boyfriend, the social worker has to deduct any money or gifts from her benefits, forcing Claudine to lie. Having a husband would be even worse, and cause her to lose her benefits altogether. Claudine does have a job as a housekeeper, but her meager wages will not support the family without the welfare benefits. Adding to Claudine's stress and financial woes, her teenage daughter gets pregnant by a young man with no prospects for taking care of her or a baby.

Despite these problems, Claudine and Roop's relationship continues and the children warm up to him. Just before he is to announce his engagement to Claudine to the kids, Rupert is served papers for a court order relating to underpayment of child support of his own children; his work wages are garnished to pay the difference. Rupert is so upset that he disappears for a couple of days and loses contact with everyone. He moves out of his apartment, does not show up to work, and does not show up to the Father's Day celebration the children had prepared for him. Charles eventually finds Roop drunk at a bar and confronts him. Charles is angry at Rupert because he left his mother without any explanation and the two get into a scuffle at the bar. Later, Rupert shows up outside of Claudine's apartment, explains his absence and they reconcile.

After several hardships and debating the financial issues relating to welfare, the couple decide to marry. In the middle of the wedding, Charles runs inside the apartment with the police chasing after him for his activities at a political demonstration. The couple and the rest of the children run after Charles, leaving the ceremony, and board the police wagon. The film ends on a cheery note with the entire family, along with Rupert, walking happily hand in hand through the neighborhood.

####Holiday Rush####
Widowed hip-hop radio DJ Rashon "Rush" Williams loses his job at the radio station WMLE when it is bought by CamCom and switches to a pop format. He and his four children, who have become accustomed to a privileged life, are forced to downsize and move back into Aunt Jo's house where they lived before Rush became wealthy. Rush and his producer Roxy buy WBQL, an old radio station where they used to work, but CamCom puts pressure on advertisers to not buy advertising time from Rush and Roxy.

Rush and Roxy develop a romantic relationship but when Rush announces this to his children, Rush's son Jamal, already angry that he will not be able to afford Harvard anymore, runs away from home. Rush finds Jamal at his deceased mother's favorite location in a nearby park and Jamal expresses his discomfort living in their old house without his mother but comes to accept the new situation and his father's new relationship.

Rush finally manages to sell his large expensive house that he cannot afford anymore and Marshall from WMLE quits his job at the station and invests in WBQL, enabling them to broadcast during the Christmas season.

####How Stella Got Her Groove Back####
Stella Payne, a very successful 40-year-old stockbroker, is a single parent raising her 11-year-old son Quincy in Marin County, California. Her friends and family chastise her for being without a relationship for too long.

Stella sends Quincy to his father's for two weeks and then, seeing an ad for Jamaican vacations, spontaneously calls her best friend from college, Delilah Abraham in New York city to propose a visit. While declining to join her, her friend instead persuades her to take a first-class vacation to Montego Bay, Jamaica.

As Stella soaks in the beauty of the island on her first morning there, she encounters a handsome young islander at breakfast. Winston Shakespeare is a chef's assistant and twenty years her junior, but very interested in her. He suggests they meet later at the hotel's disco pajama party.

Winston's pursuit of Stella turns into a blossoming romance that is abruptly interrupted when a chef hires him as an assistant, which prevents her from seeing him for the rest of her trip. On her return to California, she discovers that a merger with another company has phased out her job.

Winston convinces Stella to return, which she does with Quincy and his cousin. Delilah gives her a supportive call, then Stella is taken to meet his mother, who shames her as they are the same age. That, along with a call from Delilah's oncologist, forces her to take personal inventory of her life.

Stella flies to New York to be with the dying Delilah. When removing cancer from one part of her body, the surgeon finds a metastasis in her liver. The two friends are able to spend some time together in the hospital room before Delilah dies. Winston comes to New York for the funeral and then flies with Stella and her companions to California.

Upon arriving home Stella's family, and even her ex, welcome Winston. After a short while, tensions rise and they fight. He thinks she's ashamed to be seen with him and he finds her controlling, and she grows annoyed with his immaturity and youthful taste. Winston surprises her by fixing up her carpentry workshop.

Stella's old brokerage calls, trying to lure her back with the offer of a vice-president's position and a $275,000 salary, which she turns down to try to found her own firm. Admidst all her stress, Winston proposes. Stella temporises and dithers over her decision.

After a week without an answer, Winston announces that he intends to go back to Jamaica and enroll in medical school, and takes a taxi to the airport. Stella intercepts him in the terminal and says yes to his proposal, having realized the need for balance between love and companionship and her responsibilities as a mother and a corporate executive.

####Last Holiday####
Georgia Byrd is a shy, unassuming salesperson in the cookware department at Kragen's Department Store in New Orleans and a Baptist choir singer who longs to cook professionally. She privately records her dreams of a better life in a scrapbook labeled "Possibilities" enjoys replicating TV chef Emeril Lagasse's gourmet recipes, serving her creations to a neighbor while denying herself the pleasure of eating them. During the Christmas season, while flirting with a handsome co-worker named Sean Williams, whom she has secretly featured in her scrapbook as her dream husband, Georgia bumps her head on a cabinet door and is taken to the store's health center for a CT scan. There, she is told by company physician that she has several brain tumors resulting from a rare terminal neurological disorder called Lampington's disease. Since her HMO plan does not cover the high cost of an operation, Georgia resigns herself to having only a few weeks to live, quits her job, liquidates her assets, and sets off on a dream vacation at the deluxe Grandhotel Pupp in the Czech Republic's spa city of Karlovy Vary.

Free of inhibitions and determined to enjoy the final weeks of her life, Georgia checks into the Presidential Suite, buys a designer wardrobe in expensive boutiques, makes extensive use of the hotel's spa facilities, attempts snowboarding and BASE jumping, enjoys succulent meals prepared by world-renowned Chef Didier, and wins a small fortune playing roulette in the casino.

Georgia impresses the hotel's staff, with the exception of the cantankerous guest services manager Ms. Gunther, with her naive manner and forthright kindness, and mingles with some of the other guests, including Matthew Kragen, an arrogant self-help guru and the owner of the department store where she worked; Kragen's assistant/mistress Ms. Burns; and Louisiana power brokers Senator Dillings and Congressman Stewart. Kragen is skeptical about Georgia and suspects her of trying to sabotage his business, but the rest are charmed by her free spirit.

When Kragen bribes Ms. Gunther to dig up information about Georgia's background, she goes through her hotel suite and finds a letter Georgia has written providing instructions for the disposal of her remains after her death. Moved by the letter and realizing Georgia's self-confidence and sunny optimism have touched everyone who has met her since her arrival, Ms. Gunther confesses to Georgia she snooped through her belongings and found the letter, urging her to return home and spend her last days with those she loves. Taking Ms. Gunther's advice, Georgia heads for the airport but discovers an avalanche has blocked the road. Unbeknownst to her, Sean, having learned of Georgia's diagnosis and ready to acknowledge his long-standing feelings for her, has flown to Europe and is in a taxi on the other side of the snowdrift, blocked from reaching her at the hotel.

Georgia returns to the hotel, and Sean leaves his taxi to hike across the snow on foot. Chef Didier invites Georgia to assist him in the hotel's kitchen that night preparing an extravagant New Year's Eve feast and thanks her publicly at the party. Later, seated at dinner and incensed by the accolades and affection Georgia has received, Kragen tries to humiliate her to his companions by exposing her as a saleswoman in one of his stores, but Georgia confirms this and reveals her terminal illness. Kragen's companions, disgusted by his insensitivity, embrace her and abandon him. Dejected and embarrassed, Kragen goes to an upper floor of the hotel and sits on the ledge, contemplating suicide. Georgia tries to dissuade this, suggesting if he were nicer and less driven by greed, he would be a happier person.

Sean arrives at the hotel just in time and joins Georgia on the ledge, confessing his affection for her and admitting he'd seen her scrapbook. In the lobby, Ms. Gunther finds a fax for Georgia stating she was misdiagnosed by a faulty CT scanner and does not have Lampington's disease. Ms. Gunther rushes up to the ledge to announce the good news. Georgia and Sean return to New Orleans as a couple where they open a restaurant, Georgia's Joint, which is visited by Chef Didier and Emeril Lagasse.

####Meet the Browns####
In Chicago, Brenda Brown-Davis is the struggling single mother of Mike Jr., Lena, and Tosha. She receives a letter telling her that the father she has never met has died and his funeral will be in Georgia. The same day, the plant where she works with her friend Cheryl "relocates its business to Mexico", adding to her existing financial difficulties. Then Miss Mildred, who supervises Lena in her home daycare, says she will not work for Brenda anymore due to the fact that Brenda has not been paying her.

A basketball scout named Harry notices Mike Jr. when he plays well at a game and comes to their house to talk about the boy's future. Harry asks Brenda out but she says has no interest in hearing about her son going professional and walks away. She begs Miss Mildred to watch Lena briefly and goes to see her ex with Cheryl for financial help to pay the woman back. Mike Sr., who has never given Brenda any assistance, says no and Brenda runs after Cheryl throws a brick at him.

Brenda takes her children to Georgia to attend her father's funeral and meets half-siblings who did not know she existed and are led by Cora Simmons and Leroy Brown. She is surprised to run into Harry, who lives in the same town and is friendly with her father's family members LB, Sarah, Vera, and Will. Harry does partaking in a basketball game with Mike Jr. and Will.

At dinner, Brenda learns that LB was the only one who knew about her when she shows the letter to Vera. On his deathbed, Pop confessed to LB that he had been a pimp in Chicago. Brenda's mother who was LB's mother and many of Pop's friends, the children had all known, were his working girls much to the shock of the rest of the Browns. The family welcomes Brenda, offering support and encouragement. After the funeral, they learn that Pop Brown left an old house to Brenda in his will. Brenda decides not to move into the house, despite Harry's suggestion that she should stay.

Once Brenda is back in Chicago, Mike Sr. offers money in exchange for a one-night stand. After Brenda rejects him, Mike Jr. overhears Mike Sr. insulting her and storms out. In an attempt to make money to help, Mike Jr. turns to Calvin, a friend who deals drugs. Harry sees them together and suspects something is wrong. He counsels Mike Jr. and goes home with him, to explain the situation to Brenda, who threatens to kick Mike Jr. out if he starts dealing drugs. Mike Jr. realizes the risks involved in drug dealing would let his family down and promises that he will not do it.

When Harry and Brenda leave for a date, Mike Jr. tells Calvin that he has changed his mind and returns the drugs. A group of rival drug dealers arrive and attack Calvin for selling on their turf. Michael is shot and wounded when he runs away at Calvin's urging. Cheryl informs Brenda about what happened. This leads to a further breakdown in Brenda's relationship with Mike Sr.

After Mike Jr. recovers, Harry asks the Browns for help to get Pop Brown's run-down house for Brenda and her kids; they renovate the house and surprise her. Brenda overhears Vera talking to Sarah suggesting that Harry is only dating Brenda to get his "perks" from helping Mike Jr. Brenda overhears the conversation and confronts Harry. He asserts that he truly means well, but she breaks up with him. At the same time, Cora and Leroy watch the news of a high speed chase involving their relatives Madea and Joe Simmons. As Madea is arrested and Joe flees, Leroy gives Cora money to bail her mother out.

A basketball league representative visits Brenda and offers Mike Jr. a million-dollar contract; Brenda learns that Harry referred them, and that Harry didn't ask for any money. On the day Mike Jr. signs his contract, Mike Sr. arrives to be photographed with his ex and son, but Mike Jr. announces to the press that he does not know his father, and that his mother had raised him without support.

After they leave, Mike Jr. tells his mother that Harry is a good man and more of a father figure than his actual father had been. Brenda goes to see Harry and they reconcile, ultimately leading to marriage. The Browns are seen attending Brenda and Harry's wedding.

####Something New####
Kenya McQueen is a successful, single African-American woman who has sacrificed romance in order to pursue a career as a certified public accountant. Her rigid desire for perfection and control has manifested itself in the bland, monochromatic decor of her new home and the rigid rules she follows in her personal life. Urged to loosen up by her friends, Kenya accepts a blind date with landscape architect Brian Kelly arranged by her co-worker Leah Cahan, who is in the process of planning the kind of wedding Kenya wants herself. The two meet at Starbucks, and she is surprised to discover Brian is white. She quickly excuses herself and leaves.

The two unexpectedly meet again at a party at Leah's parents' home, where Brian landscaped the grounds. Impressed with his work, Kenya decides to hire him to renovate her unkempt backyard garden. As time passes, their employer-employee relationship evolves into a friendship and then love.

Although Brian is helping her feel more comfortable about her living environment, Kenya finds it difficult to dismiss her reservations about their romance. The opinions of her girlfriends Cheryl, Nedra, and Suzette, her upper class parents Joyce and Edmond, and her womanizing younger brother Nelson begin to have a deleterious effect and Brian's unwillingness to discuss issues of color drives them apart.

Nelson introduces his sister to someone she views as a more acceptable suitor, tax attorney Mark Harper, who has just relocated to Los Angeles. The two begin to date, and while Joyce thoroughly approves, Edmond senses his daughter is not as happy as she was with Brian. Everything Kenya thought she wanted suddenly seems immaterial, and nothing Mark does ignites a spark between them. When the dissonance she's developed finally overwhelms her, Kenya chooses to reunite with Brian, no longer allowing her controlling nature and social norms to dictate matters of the heart.

The film ends with Kenya marrying Brian amongst their closest friends and loved ones. Their wedding reception is held in the same garden Brian had landscaped for his new wife.

####Two Can Play That Game####
Shante Smith (Vivica A. Fox) is a woman who gives advice on how to keep a man in check. Her ideals are challenged when her man, an attorney, named Keith Fenton (Morris Chestnut), threatens to stray. Smith is a well-educated woman who feels that when it comes to men and their tricks, she knows them all.

On the other end, Shante’s boyfriend Keith is being led by his friend Tony (Anthony Anderson), who thinks he knows all the tricks that women play. When Shanté's boyfriend, Keith, is caught red-handed stepping out with a co worker, Shanté institutes her "Ten Day Plan" to get her man in line. The battle soon begins, though at the conclusion of the movie, Shante and Keith get back together.

####Beyond the Lights####
In 1998 in London, a young Noni Jean is taken by her mother Macy to a salon to get her hair done before her performance at a talent contest. Noni is happy to win second place for her performance of Nina Simone's "Blackbird", but her mother refuses to accept anything but first place and forces Noni to smash her trophy on the ground.

In the present, Noni Jean is a hot new artist who has just won a Billboard Music Award for her collaboration with her boyfriend Kid Culprit and is primed for superstardom. However, the pressures of success cause her to nearly end her life by falling off a hotel balcony. She is saved by a young police officer, Kaz Nicol. Noni's team, including her mother, tells the media in a press conference that she fell by accident. Kaz, who has political ambitions, is not happy to be forced to lie to the media, and is initially cold to Noni. However, he later apologizes to her. Gradually, they connect and begin to fall in love, despite her mother's disapproval. Noni tells Kaz about the songs she has secretly written, and he is supportive of her creative ambitions. Noni decides to end the romantic relationship with Kid Culprit that her team has encouraged.

In spite of her team's attempt to cover it up, rumors persist that Noni attempted suicide, and her label tells Macy (who is also Noni's manager) that her record contract is conditional on a successful upcoming performance. However, during the performance, Kid Culprit sexually assaults and humiliates her, claiming that Noni attempted suicide because he'd broken up with her. He tries to strip Noni's clothes off on stage when Kaz rushes in to rescue her and punches Kid Culprit in her defense. Following this, Noni loses her record contract and is at a low point emotionally, so Kaz takes her on a trip to Mexico away from the spotlight where they enjoy each other's company. Noni gets rid of her old hairstyle in favor of her natural hair, and a trip to a local karaoke bar leads to Noni giving an emotional performance of "Blackbird." The performance is uploaded to the internet and goes viral, causing Noni's mother and the paparazzi to find her. Macy tells Noni that the viral success of her performance has caused her record label to reconsider, and Noni agrees to return home. Kaz tells Noni he is not convinced that anything will be different than it was before, and their relationship is put on pause.

Noni wants to add a song she has written to her upcoming album, but Macy refuses. The two fight about their relationship and Noni tells her mother that even after her suicide attempt, Macy continued to focus only on her career to the detriment of her happiness and mental health. Noni fires Macy as her manager. Meanwhile, Kaz has begun a political campaign and reflects on whether his career should take precedence over his personal happiness. Inspired by Kaz's honesty, Noni gives a television interview where she admits to having attempted suicide and says she is getting help. Noni prepares for her first live performance in London, and shortly before going onstage suddenly encounters Kaz, who has taken a flight there and expresses his love for her. Noni performs a song she has written to an enthusiastic audience. She brings Kaz onstage, tells him that she loves him too, and they embrace.

####Compensation####
In 1910, Malindy, an educated seamstress who mobilizes against segregation at her school for the deaf, meets and falls in love with Arthur, a hearing man and an illiterate migrant worker from Mississippi. Malindy teaches Arthur ASL and how to read and write. In the present day, artist Malaika and librarian Nico also fall in love after a series of encounters. Both couples revel in the splendor of romance and a possible lifetime commitment, only to be forced to deal with the dreaded diseases of their respective times: tuberculosis and AIDS. In both stories, the couples also face opposition from those that do not think a relationship between a hearing person and deaf person will be compatible.

####Daddy's Little Girls####
In Edgewood, Atlanta, Monty James (Idris Elba) is a mechanic working for Willie (Louis Gossett Jr.) who dreams of owning his own shop. His three daughters, Sierra (Sierra McClain), Lauryn (Lauryn McClain), and China (China Anne McClain) have been cared for by their elderly maternal grandmother Kat (Juanita Jennings) with frequent visits from Monty along with financial support. Before her death from lung cancer, Kat asks Monty to take custody of them since her daughter/Monty's ex-wife Jennifer (Tasha Smith) has little to no interest in her daughters, having not visited them in several months prior to her mother’s death. She is preferably more involved in the business activity of her live-in boyfriend Joe (Gary Anthony Sturgis), the main drug dealer in the neighborhood who people are afraid of testifying against or else he'll have them killed.

Following Kat's funeral, Jennifer arrives with Joe and his thugs upset that no one notified her of her mother’s death. Jennifer tries to physically take the girls from Monty demanding that they leave with her and Joe, but her aunt Rita (Cassi Davis) steps in and stops her. She leaves, but informs Monty that she intends to seek full custody of the girls.

In an effort to earn extra money, Monty accepts a job as a driver for Julia Rossmore (Gabrielle Union), an attorney, at the recommendation of his next-door neighbor Maya (Malinda Williams) who works as her assistant. When Monty and Julia meet, she insists they refrain from fraternizing and keeps a strict schedule. Monty has to work later than expected one night after Julia’s friends, Brenda (Terri J. Vaughn) and Cynthia (Tracee Ellis Ross), set Julia up on a blind date with Byron (Craig Robinson) who turns out to be an unemployed and obnoxious aspiring rapper. While driving Julia home, Monty receives a call that his children were involved in a house fire. Without explanation to Julia, Monty immediately heads to the hospital against the protest of an uninformed Julia who fires him.

When Monty arrives at the hospital, it is revealed that Sierra accidentally started a fire and that the girls were home alone with no adult supervision until Maya rescued them. Julia follows Monty into the hospital to demand she be driven home in time to hear the Social Services representative Laurie Bell (Donna Biscoe) who was notified by the hospital, make the decision based on the circumstances, to grant immediate temporary custody to their mother, setting a date for a custody hearing. Monty drives Julia home and they part ways. Julia hires a replacement driver and Monty returns to work as a mechanic. Meanwhile, the girls face constant abuse and neglect from Joe and Jennifer.

Monty is called to Sierra's school after she is caught with drugs according to the principal (Bennet Guillory). Sierra explains to Monty that Joe and Jennifer are forcing her to sell drugs under the threat of hurting Monty if she refused. Jennifer and Joe arrive and are enraged that the school contacted Monty. Joe threatens Monty during a brief altercation in the principal's office. Aware that Joe can afford a high-power attorney for the custody hearing, Monty goes to Julia for help. Julia knows that he cannot afford to hire the firm and turns him away, interpreting his actions as an attempt to use her to get custody so he can use the girls to get government assistance. Feeling insulted, Monty leaves after telling Julia to get a life and a man.

Julia goes on another blind date with the attorney Christopher (Brian J. White) who she thinks is perfect for her until his wife and kids expose him. On the day of Monty’s custody hearing, Julia is leaving a different courtroom and overhears Monty’s failing attempt to represent himself. After listening to Monty try to inform the judge that the girls are living with a drug dealer, she steps in as his attorney and is able to get the hearing delayed. Julia agrees to represent him provided that case preparation occurs after office hours. Later, while preparing for the hearing, Julia asks Monty if there is anything bad she should know about him so that she is not surprised in court. They are interrupted by a phone call and the question goes unanswered.

Upon discovering it's her birthday and that Julia has no plans, Monty takes her to the jazz club in his neighborhood where they drink with his friends and dance. Julia kisses Monty and asks him to spend the night. Monty obliges, but a drunken Julia vomiting in the bathroom changes her mind and tells him to go home.

Over the next few weeks, they begin to have strong romantic feelings for each other. Monty invites her to meet his daughters at his apartment during his visitation. She continues to spend time with Monty and his girls and they take a trip to the aquarium. Julia runs into Brenda, who met Monty previously when he was Julia’s driver and figures out that they are now a couple. Brenda pulls Julia to the side and berates Monty, stating that he is beneath her status. Monty overhears Julia’s friend and is hurt. Julia later opens up to Monty and tearfully tells him about her last relationship that ended in betrayal. Monty promises that he won’t betray her and they continue dating.

Monty goes to work and finds Willie has been injured in a robbery. Willie is ready to retire and offers to sell the shop to Monty for a $10,000 deposit that can be paid on a payment schedule. Monty accepts his offer.

At the child custody hearing, Julia argues that it would be in the children's best interest for Monty to be awarded custody and provided the court with a written statement from Jennifer’s deceased mother stating the same. Jennifer's lawyer (Mark Oliver) fights back and claims that Monty is not suitable to raise the girls due to a conviction of statutory rape that occurred 16 years prior. Julia is disgusted and feels betrayed as Monty never told her this information. She refuses to provide him further assistance with his case and leaves. Julia is later comforted by her friends.

At 3:00 am, Monty's daughters arrive at his house and inform him that Joe has been hitting them, proving it by revealing that China's back is bruised while Jennifer just watched and did nothing about it when China was crying. While his daughters are asleep, a livid Monty flashes back to his arrest. Then he drives away and crashes into Jennifer and Joe's car after which he mercilessly beats Joe. The rest of the neighborhood gathers to watch, as Joe's thugs arrive and begin to attack Monty. Having had enough of Joe's terrorism, the neighbors attack Joe's thugs as Monty continues attacking Joe. Julia sees a news report about the police having stopped a near-riot while learning Monty was wrongfully convicted of the supposed rape charges when he was among those arrested. Upon hearing this, Julia rushes to help Monty.

Jennifer and Joe face drug charges in court as the district attorney (Leland L. Jones) stated that drugs were found in Joe's car and house. All of the neighbors decide to testify against Jennifer, Joe, and his thugs as the judge (Giulia Pagano) has them taken into custody with no bond. Monty is then charged with domestic battery toward Joe. Julia walks in to represent Monty, apologizing for not hearing his side of the story. The witnesses refuse to testify against Monty, so the judge dismisses the case. Monty tells Julia that he loves her.

Monty's daughters greet him and Julia at the auto shop that now bears his name, as the rest of the neighborhood celebrates that Monty now owns the auto shop with full custody of his daughters, along with Jennifer, Joe, and his thugs finally being locked away.

####Disappearing Acts####
Zora Banks (Sanaa Lathan) moves from Manhattan to her newly renovated brownstone in Brooklyn. Franklin (Wesley Snipes) is polishing the floors in what will be her new apartment. He informs her that she cannot move in yet due to her wood grain floors not being dry. An upset Zora threatens to fire one of the moving men, who proceed to leave her furniture and boxes on the sidewalk. Desperate, she asks Franklin to help her move her things. After moving her in, they begin to talk and she accepts his offer to help her unpack and get settled in.

Later while Zora is walking home, she finds Franklin waiting for her on the stoop and chastises him for coming by without warning. Franklin says he was waiting for her because he wanted to see her. Zora invites Franklin inside. They cannot hide their mutual attraction and proceed to have sex. Later, the couple talk of their dreams and aspirations; Zora wants to become a singer and Franklin wants to get his contracting business off the ground. Both confess that they were putting off love until they got themselves together. Franklin then tells Zora that he is not a wealthy man. Zora reassures him, stating that she is not looking for a rich man.

The two spend a lot of time together eating home cooked meals, playing "Scrabble", and watching television. While getting a drink with his friend Jimmy (Clark Johnson), Franklin expresses that he likes Zora because she listens and they talk more than have sex. Jimmy then repays a loan that Franklin had made him. Franklin uses part of the money to get Zora's piano out of layaway. Zora then auditions for up-and-coming producer Reggie Baptiste (Q-Tip), and gets cut a deal to do a six-song demo with him.

Franklin confesses to Zora that he dropped out of high school in the eleventh grade, never earning a GED. He also tells her that although separated for the last four years, he is still married with two sons. Zora does not take the news well and Franklin accuses her of caring more about "degrees and dollars" than their relationship.

The next day, Zora finds Franklin at work and admits that she would not have gotten involved with him had she known the truth about him earlier. She then confides that she loves him and asks him to move in with her, expressing the desire to meet his children. In return, he tells her he loves her and promises that as soon as he gets the money he will get the divorce.

Zora meets Franklin's sons, Marcus (Dequan Henderson) and Tyree (Fernando Phifer Cameron), and while the younger Tyree warms up to Zora quickly after she teaches him some notes on her piano, Marcus is not so welcoming to her. Despite all the obstacles, the couple continue to fall deeper in love, but things come to a head when Zora suffers an epileptic seizure while sleeping. The next morning when confronted by Franklin on why he never knew of her condition, she says she did not want to scare him off. Franklin reassures her that it will take more than that to get him to walk away.

A while later, Zora gets pregnant. She wants an abortion since she does not think the time is right. But Franklin convinces her to keep the baby, and nine months later she gives birth to a boy named Jeremiah.

After the birth of the baby, times get really hard for Zora and Frankie. He is out of work again and because of this he drinks and forgets to pick up the baby from daycare, this causes Zora to leave work to pick up the baby and miss her recording session with Reg. Reg is unhappy about this so she loses her demo deal. One night Zora and Frankie get in a heated argument and they break up. A heart broken Frankie drinks and plays sad records while Zora sleeps in the other room. Frankie then goes to the room and tries to have makeup sex with Zora, she pushes him away and says "I'm leaving and when I come back tomorrow I want you out of my house". While she is away a distraught and angry Frankie vandalizes their once home together with a hammer and leaves.

About seven months go by and Franklin goes to Zora's house. He says he wants to see his son. She lets him in and Frankie holds his son and puts him to bed. The ex-couple then converse about what has been going on. Frankie tells Zora that he is taking his contractor test the next day and that he got his GED. Zora tells him that she writes songs and that one of them is on the radio. While walking out the door Frankie talks about their love and how it was real no matter what the timing was. He leaves and she follows him and says "I never got to beat you in Scrabble". He smiles, goes back upstairs and they play Scrabble.

####Jungle Fever####
Successful Harlem architect Flipper Purify lives with his wife Drew, a buyer at Bloomingdales, and their young daughter, Ming. At work, Flipper discovers that an Italian-American woman named Angie Tucci has been hired as his temp secretary. Initially upset at being the only black person, he relents after being told hiring is based on ability, not race.

Angie lives in Bensonhurst with her abusive father Mike and her brothers Charlie and Jimmy. Angie's quiet fiancé Paulie runs a corner grocery store and lives with his elderly widowed father Lou. Meanwhile, Angie feels suffocated at home.

After working several late nights together, Flipper and Angie have sex, beginning a tumultuous relationship. The next day, Flipper demands his superiors, Jerry and Leslie, promote him to partner, but he is denied. He resigns, having plans to start his own firm.

Eventually, Flipper admits his infidelity to his longtime friend, Cyrus, who criticizes him not for his infidelity towards his wife, but for his affair with a white woman. Cyrus refers to his situation as "jungle fever"—an attraction borne of sexualized racial myths rather than love—and Flipper asks Cyrus not to tell anyone. Angie's friends are equally disparaging when she tells them she is having a relationship with a black man.

Drew learns about Flipper's affair through Cyrus' wife Vera and throws him out of their home. Flipper moves in with his father, Southern Baptist preacher The Good Reverend Purify and mother, Lucinda Purify. Later, Mike severely beats Angie after discovering that she is dating a black man and kicks her out of their home.

At Drew's workplace, Flipper attempts to reconcile but Drew kicks him out, feeling he was only attracted to her for being half-white, and that Flipper was searching for a white woman as he was a successful black man. Flipper and Angie move into an apartment in Greenwich Village where they encounter discrimination for being a mixed-race couple, such as being insulted by a waitress named LaShawn, chastisement from The Good Reverend, and financial issues.

After some play fighting, Flipper gets restrained by two policemen (the same ones who killed Radio Raheem two years prior) who receive a call that he was attacking Angie. The couple's issues are compounded by Flipper's feelings for his family and Angie wanting to have children of her own, causing their split. Echoing what Cyrus told him earlier, Flipper tells Angie their relationship has been based on sexual racial myths and not love. Angie, although upset, accepts that the relationship has run its course.

Later, Flipper's crack-addicted brother Gator steals and sells Lucinda's TV for crack. Searching all over Harlem, Flipper eventually finds him in a crack house and exasperatedly disowns him.

Soon after, Gator returns to his parents' house to ask for money and, after Lucinda refuses, begins ransacking the home. His erratic behavior ignites an altercation that ends with The Good Reverend proclaiming angrily that his son is "evil and better off dead" before shooting him. Gator collapses and dies in Lucinda's arms as The Good Reverend watches remorsefully.

Meanwhile, Paulie's racist Italian-American friends mock him for having lost his girlfriend to a black man. He asks one of his customers, a friendly black woman named Orin Goode, out on a date. This angers his father, whom he defiantly ignores. En route to meet Orin, Paulie is assaulted viciously by his other customers for attempting an interracial relationship. Although badly beaten, Paulie still arrives for his date with Orin.

Mike reluctantly allows Angie to return home, and Flipper unsuccessfully tries to mend his relationship with Drew. As Flipper leaves from his apartment, a young crack-addicted prostitute propositions him, and in response, Flipper throws his arms around her and cries out in anguished torment.

####Mississippi Masala####
In 1972, dictator Idi Amin enacts a policy of forceful expulsion of Asians from Uganda. Jay, his wife Kinnu, and their daughter Mina, a family of Ugandan Indians residing in Kampala, reluctantly and tearfully leave their home behind and relocate. After spending a few years in England, the family settle in Greenwood, Mississippi to live with family members who own a chain of motels there. Despite the passage of time, Jay is unable to come to terms with his sudden departure from his home country, and cannot fully embrace the American lifestyle. He dreams of one day returning with his family to Kampala. The effects of Amin's dictatorship have caused Jay to become distrustful towards black people.

Mina, on the other hand, has fully assimilated to the American culture and has a diverse group of friends. She feels stifled by her parents' wish to only associate with members of their own community. She falls in love with Demetrius, a local African American self-employed carpet cleaner. Mina is aware that her parents will not approve and keeps the relationship somewhat secret. The pair decide to spend a romantic clandestine weekend together in Biloxi, where they are spotted by members of the Indian community, and the gossip begins to spread. Jay is outraged and ashamed, and forbids Mina from ever seeing Demetrius again. Mina also faces both subtle and outright dislike from Demetrius' community. Demetrius confronts Jay, who reveals his experiences and racist treatment in Uganda, causing Demetrius to call out Jay on his hypocrisy. Ultimately, the two families cannot fully come to terms with the interracial pair, who flee the state together in Demetrius's van.

Jay's wish finally becomes reality when he travels to Kampala to attend a court proceeding on the disposition of his previously confiscated house. While in the country however, he sees how much it has changed and realises that he no longer identifies with the land of his birth. Jay returns to America and relinquishes his long-nurtured dream of returning to Uganda, the place he considered home.

####Poetic Justice####
Justice is a young African American woman living in South Central, Los Angeles, named by her late mother who gave birth to her while attending law school. After the fatal shooting of her boyfriend Markell, Justice becomes deeply depressed, spending most of her time with her cat named Whiteboy in the house that she inherited from her grandmother, and only going out to her job at a local hair salon. A talented poet, Justice reads many of her poems throughout the film, both to other characters and in voice-over.

While she is working at the salon one day, a young postal clerk named Lucky arrives and begins flirting with her. She and her female boss Jessie rebuff his advances, pretending to be lesbians and mocking Lucky with their "relationship".

Lucky has also suffered tragedy in his life: his main focus is caring for his young daughter Keisha, whom he had to forcibly remove from the care of her crack-addicted mother (nicknamed "Angel"), who was using drugs and having sex with her drug dealer while leaving the child unattended in the apartment. Lucky dreams of a professional career in music and shows considerable promise, but insists that his cousin is the true talent.

Justice's friend Iesha manages to talk Justice into taking a road trip to Oakland with Iesha's boyfriend, Chicago, Lucky's co-worker at the post office. Justice warily accepts, mainly because she has to go to Oakland for a hair show and her car had stopped working at the last minute. Unbeknownst to Justice, Lucky is also on the trip, and she will now be sharing a postal van with him and their two mutual friends. Initially, they argue, but they soften towards each other as they gradually discover their similarities.

The quartet makes a couple of detours: the first is a family reunion barbecue they see signs for on the road, where it becomes apparent (although there were ample hints earlier) that Iesha and Chicago's relationship is troubled. Lesha openly flirts with another man at the barbecue, while Chicago broods watching her behavior. Iesha and Chicago argue in the mail truck until Justice talks to Iesha about her behavior with alcohol. Iesha throws up and tearfully apologizes to her.

At the next stop, a carnival, Lucky and Justice grow closer while discussing their lives. After leaving the reunion, they stop at a beach where each of the four contemplates their separate situations in internal monologues. Afterward, the friction between Chicago and Iesha explodes when Iesha informs Chicago that she has been seeing someone on the side, and he physically attacks her. Lucky initially decides to abstain until Justice defends Iesha by kicking Chicago in the groin, who retaliates by physically and brutally attacking her. Lucky knocks Chicago out, and he, Justice and a bleeding and shaken Iesha leave him behind and continue on their journey.

Lucky stops the postal van at a beach, and Justice goes to see what's wrong. She begins opening up to him about her life, and Lucky becomes sympathetic. They share a kiss, and Justice walks away apparently unsure of her feelings for Lucky. She goes back to him, and they kiss again.

When the now-trio arrive in Oakland, they receive news that Lucky's cousin, with whom he had been working on recording music, has been killed. Blaming himself for not being in Oakland sooner and believing he could have prevented the shooting had he been in town, Lucky angrily blames Justice for distracting him while they were on the road. Jessie advises Justice and Iesha about men before the hair show. Lucky's uncle and aunt give him his cousin's recording equipment. Lucky decides to give up work and take care of Keisha.

Months later, Lucky meets up with Justice again back at the hair salon, bringing Keisha. Remorseful over his conduct in Oakland and his cruel words towards Justice there, he apologizes. She smiles at him coyly and they passionately kiss. She then turns her attention to Keisha, fussing over her hair. Justice and Lucky's eyes meet over Keisha's head and they smile, as strongly connected as ever.

####Really Love####
"Set in a gentrifying Washington, D.C., a rising Black painter tries to break into a competitive art world, while balancing a whirlwind romance he never expected."

####Meet the Patels####
Neither Ravi Patel, a 30 year old small-time upcoming actor, nor his sister are married, to the chagrin of their parents Vasant (Financial planner) and Champa (an accomplished match-maker and real estate agent), who had an arranged marriage. However, Ravi has been, without his parents' knowledge, dating Audrey, a white red-headed American woman, and Ravi recently broke up with her. On a family trip to India (during "wedding season") he agrees to make a serious effort to find a partner, alternating between a matchmaking process of dates with Indian-American women from among the Patel clan based in Gujarat by circulation of biodata sheets; registering with Indian marriage websites, identifying potential mates by evaluation and through extended family relations, and matrimonial ceremonies & conventions.  Interspersed between the dating activity, much of it organized by his parents who continue to lament his lack of commitment to the process and high standards. Ravi discusses his experiences and his feelings about the whole thing with his sister Geeta, meanwhile Geeta also notices Ravi's one nights with Audrey, even after breaking up and Audrey's consistent request to break their plateau friendship. Ravi eventually recognizes that his frame of reference is always Audrey, his first love and no matter what or where he searches, he is not going to find Audrey in others. The parents hearing the news from Ravi at first become reluctant but come around, conclude their match-making and relax their constraints in expectations and accept their son's wishes for being with someone he truly loves, and Ravi ends up back with Audrey, who eventually wins the affection of his parents and adopts Indian traditions.

####Picture Bride####
In 1918, Riyo is a young Japanese woman who becomes a picture bride for a man who works as a field hand on a sugarcane plantation in Hawaii. It is Riyo's aunt who facilitates the match as Riyo's father has long been deceased. Riyo is shown a picture of the handsome Matsuji, her husband-to-be in Hawaii. When Riyo arrives in Honolulu, she discovers that Matsuji is actually twenty years older than her, and had sent a photo that was taken of him when he was a young man. Riyo is disappointed but goes through with the wedding in a mass ceremony with other "picture couples".

She joins Matsuji on a wagon that takes her to her new home, a ramshackle house in the sugarcane plantation. As she walks past the darkened fields to their home, Riyo hears a faint sound on the wind of a woman singing. When she asks about it, Matsuji half-jokes that the ghosts of the canefields have come to welcome her. That night, they sleep on the same mat, but Riyo fights off his attempts at intimacy and hides beneath a blanket.

The next day, Riyo is given an ID tag to wear around her neck and goes to work in the sugarcane fields. She is unfamiliar with farm work and slows the other workers down, leading her to be harassed and ridiculed by Antone, the "luna" (field supervisor). Yayoi, who leads the women workers, prompts Kana, another picture bride who arrived several years before, to mentor Riyo. Over time, Riyo and Kana become friends. Riyo learns that Kana's husband Kanzaki frequently beats her and goes out gambling. To escape the abuse, Kana goes out to the fields at night with her baby, where she sings and sleeps.

Riyo agrees to help Kana with her side business of doing laundry for the workers. She saves her earnings from her laundry work and farm work in a tin can, determined to earn her passage back to Japan. Matsuji begins drinking and gambling, telling Riyo he intends to win enough money to get another bride. Kana advises Matsuji to become romantic and to take Rudolf Valentino as a role model to win Riyo's heart.

Meanwhile, Yayoi departs with her family for Honolulu, asking Kana to take care of the other women caneworkers. Antone the "luna" becomes more exacting on the workers to meet the harvest in time. One day, he has the workers set fire to the cane fields to burn off the leaves for harvesting, but in a hurry to get the job done, he does not let the women locate their children first. To Kana's horror, she cannot find her baby daughter Kei, who has wandered into the fields. She rushes into the burning field to find her daughter, but neither mother nor daughter returns.

After this tragedy, the workers talk about waging a strike. Matsuji asks Riyo to contribute some of her earnings to help with the strike, but she refuses, still nursing the hope she can use the money to return to Japan. One night, Riyo continues to hear the sound of a woman singing in the fields and leaves the house to follow the sound. Matsuji pursues her and accuses her of having a secret lover. As they sit under a tree, Riyo discloses that when she was a child, both of her parents died of tuberculosis, which at that time carried tremendous social stigma. Although Riyo was healthy, her matchmaker aunt lied to Matsuji about his bride-to-be's status. That night, when Riyo tentatively reaches out to him as they lie in bed, he brusquely turns away.

Feeling betrayed, the next day Riyo gathers her savings and a few belongings and runs away, eventually finding herself at the ocean. After falling asleep on the shore, she is awakened by the sound of singing and glimpses a woman walking among the shoreline rocks. She runs after the vision and encounters Kana, who says she is leaving for Japan. When Riyo asks to accompany her, Kana gently says, "Who waiting for you there?" As Yayoi had done when she left the plantation, Kana hands her neck tag to Riyo and tells her to "take care of the girls." Kana turns to walk toward the sea and fades out of sight.

Riyo awakens with Kana's neck tag in her hand. She returns to the plantation and to her house, where she finds Matsuji drunk. She puts him to bed, and he looks at her, saying, "I thought I was all alone again." Later that night, she hesitantly reaches out to touch his hand, and he reaches back; they embrace and consummate their relationship.

The next day, Riyo surprises the other workers when she begins singing in the fields, as Kana and Yayoi had done. Though Antone tries to make fun of Riyo, she continues to sing with the realization that she has picked up the mantle of leadership. Matsuji makes a gift of a Buddhist altar to Riyo to honor her parents, and she is touched at his acceptance of her past.

The film ends as Riyo, Matsuji, and the other workers dance in a circle at a lively Obon Festival. In a closing voiceover by Nobu McCarthy, an older Riyo describes how she imagines at times that she hears a woman's voice singing and realizes it is the voice of her own daughter singing to her children.

####Wedding Season####
Asha is an economist working in microfinance who has recently broken off her engagement and left a Wall Street banking career behind to work for a microfinance startup in New Jersey. Asha's mother Suneeta, concerned for her future and against the advice of her husband Vijay, sets up a dating profile through which Asha meets Ravi. Though their first date goes badly, Asha eventually convinces Ravi to pretend that that they are dating at various weddings throughout the summer in order to ease the pressure to get married. Asha and Ravi slowly become interested in each other, and Asha learns that Ravi is secretly a wealthy DJ called DJ Spellbound.

Ravi encourages Asha when she needs to make sure the pitch goes successfully, and Asha is recruited for an executive position in London. Suneeta mistakes Asha's text to her sister Priya about the big news as news of her engagement to Ravi. The families plan a surprise lunch, during which Asha confesses their deception and Ravi admits that he dropped out of MIT and has no intention of getting a socially acceptable career. Ravi also admits to paying for catering orders from his father's restaurant in the name of his financial trust, the same trust that invested in Asha's pitch. Enraged, Asha ends their relationship. Later, Ravi argues with his parents about their disappointment in him.

Priya gets cold feet during her wedding. Asha encourages her, realizing in turn that she truly loves Ravi. She goes to his family's restaurant to see him with another woman, and gives a speech about what a great guy he is. Priya and Nick marry and introduce DJ Spellbound at the reception. Ravi and his parents reconcile, he admits his job to the community, and gets back together with Asha.

####Abie's Irish Rose####
A Jewish boy, Abie Levy (Rogers), falls in love with and secretly marries Rosemary Murphy (Carroll), an Irish Catholic girl, but lies to his family, saying that she's Jewish. The fathers of both bride and groom are at first religiously bigoted toward the other but with the birth of twin grandchildren, their antagonism fades.

####Eat Drink Man Woman####
On a Sunday evening in Taipei, semi-retired chef and widower Zhu prepares a feast for his three daughters. Jia-Jen, the eldest, is a chemistry teacher who devotes herself to Christianity after facing heartbreak from her college ex-boyfriend. The second daughter, Jia-Chien, is an executive at an airline company. She wanted to become a head chef like her father but he claimed that it was not for a woman. Jia-Ning, the youngest, is a college student who works part-time at a Wendy's fast food restaurant.

At dinner, Jia-Chien announces that she has invested in a new apartment and will be moving out once construction is complete. Surprisingly, Mr. Zhu approves. Jia-Chien criticizes the flavor, claiming Mr. Zhu's taste is deteriorating. Mr. Zhu dismisses the idea before suddenly rushing off to help his (and Jia-Chien's) long-time friend and "taster", Old Wen, at a banquet. Afterwards, Mr. Zhu wonders with Old Wen if there is anything more to life than eating, drinking, man, and woman. Meanwhile, family friend Jin-Rong stops by the Zhu residence with her daughter Shan-Shan. Jin-Rong vocalizes her difficulties with a messy divorce while being responsible for work, Shan-Shan, and her opinionated mother, Madame Liang, as she returns to Taipei from America. Jia-Jen comforts her while Shan-Shan colors a caricature of Mr. Zhu.

The next morning, Mr. Zhu meets Shan-Shan, learns that the lunches Jin-Rong provides her are suboptimal, and decides to cook for her. Shan-Shan agrees, giving Mr. Zhu the lunches her mom made to prevent her from discovering their secret. At school, Jia-Jen meets the new volleyball coach Ming-Dao and they take interest in one another. Jia-Chien meets the chief negotiator Li Kai during a meeting at work and they flirt with one another. She has a chance to relocate to Amsterdam due to a potential promotion. Jia-Ning meets up with Guo-Lun, her friend Rachel's on-and-off boyfriend. As Guo-Lun mopes about his unrequited love, Jia-Ning comforts him, telling him that true love is being with someone you can express your feelings to comfortably, leading Guo-Lun to realize his feelings for Jia-Ning.

Meanwhile, Old Wen becomes hospitalized. Jia-Jen is fooled by love letters she believes are from Ming-Dao, falling for a prank by her students. Jia-Chien's apartment investment falls through as she discovers that the apartment company went bankrupt and ran away with her savings. She also learns that it was Li Kai who broke Jia-Jen's heart in college and avoids romance with him. Jia-Ning faces a dilemma when she begins dating Guo-Lun even after Rachel confesses that she loves him. Mr. Zhu's health deteriorates and secretly visits the hospital, unaware that Jia-Chien saw him while visiting Old Wen. Eventually, Old Wen passes away and Mr. Zhu concludes that his sense of taste has officially departed.

At another Sunday feast, Jia-Chien announces that she will no longer be moving out; Mr. Zhu tells her not to worry. Later, Jia-Ning reveals her relationship with Guo-Lun and her pregnancy. The next dinner, Jia-Jen divulges that she and Ming-Dao have eloped. Jia-Jen and Jia-Ning move out of the residence, leaving Mr. Zhu with Jia-Chien. Troubled, Mr. Zhu begins to confide in and meet Madame Liang, leading the daughters to believe that the two are romantically involved.

Worried about her father's health, Jia-Chien rejects her promotion. Soon, the sisters, their partners, and Jin-Rong's family gather for a large Sunday feast. Mr. Zhu announces his engagement, not to Madame Liang, but to Jin-Rong, abruptly ending the dinner. Later, Jia-Ning and Guo-Lun have their baby, Jia-Jen converts Ming-Dao to Christianity, and Mr. Zhu sells the family home and buys a condo with Jin-Rong and Shan-Shan. Jia-Chien, no longer needing to take care of her father, accepts the job in Amsterdam. Before she leaves she prepares a final feast for the family in the family home, but only Mr. Zhu arrives. When Mr. Zhu criticizes her cooking, he suddenly realizes that his sense of taste has returned. The two hold each other’s hands in the dining room, and call each other “Father” and “Daughter”.

####Fiddler on the Roof####
The film's plot largely follows that of the musical from which it is adapted.

####Keeping the Faith####
Father Brian Finn, dedicated to his calling as Catholic priest since childhood, shares the duties of his New York parish with the older Fr. Havel. Rabbi Jacob "Jake" Schram, best friends with Brian since they were children and the youngest rabbi at his synagogue, focuses on his work to the detriment of his private life, much to the chagrin of his mother, Ruth.

The two men show a close bond even in their professions, planning to open a jointly-sponsored community center. The pair reminisce about their childhood friend Anna Reilly, meeting them in middle school after beating up a bully. The three were close friends until Anna's family moved to California and they ultimately lost touch.

Sixteen years later, Anna moves to New York for work and calls Jake and Brian out of the blue, rekindling their friendship. Anna and Jake begin sleeping together, but he is reluctant to become seriously involved as she is not Jewish, which could compromise his relationship with his congregation and his mother Ruth, who disowned her eldest son for marrying outside the faith.

Between this conflict and their desire to spare Brian's feelings, the relationship is kept mostly secret. As the relationship continues, Jake remains unwilling to view the relationship as serious, despite Anna’s hints at her "taking a class." She is upset when they run into members of Jake's congregation while on a date, and Jake introduces her only as "my old friend Anna."

Brian is in private turmoil after also developing feelings for Anna, in conflict with his vows. He misinterprets Anna's words and actions – some of which are subtle signals to Jake – and even has an erotic dream about her. He seriously considers leaving the priesthood to pursue a romantic relationship with her.

While the three have dinner with Ruth, she reveals to Anna that she knows about her and Jake's secret relationship. Jake and Brian walk in on the tearful moment, and Jake and Anna later argue over the religious issues complicating their romance and part ways. Anna calls Brian for comfort and he rushes to her, taking her tearful ramblings to be a confession of feelings for him.

When Brian kisses Anna and confesses his love, she interrupts him, admitting she is in love with Jake and they have been seeing each other secretly for months. Embarrassed and rejected, he spends the night drinking on the streets. Still drunk the next day, Brian stumbles into Jake's temple and interrupts a post-bar mitzvah gathering, resulting in a confrontation that ends with the priest punching the rabbi.

As the Community Center's grand opening approaches, along with the end of Anna's East Coast assignment, Jake reconciles with Brian, as does Anna soon after. A discussion with Brian prompts Jake to go to Anna's office building, with Brian shouting encouragement as he runs down the street. Interrupting Anna's going-away party, Jake gets her attention from a window across the street, and calls to explain himself and offer to set things right.

That evening, Jake and Anna surprise Brian in the middle of his karaoke number at the interfaith center. She greets Rabbi Lewis and mentions their meetings together, revealing that she had been taking classes to convert to Judaism. She tells him she hopes to pick it up again as she is now staying in New York, with Jake clearly thrilled. The film ends with the three friends happily posing for a photo together.

####Meet the Fockers####
Two years after the events of the first film, Gaylord "Greg" Focker and his fiancée Pam Byrnes decide to introduce their parents to each other. They first fly to Oyster Bay, New York, to pick up Pam's father, retired CIA operative Jack Byrnes, her mother Dina, and Pam's one-year-old nephew, Jack "Little Jack" Banks (the son of Bob and Debbie Banks). Rather than going to the airport as planned, Jack decides to drive the family to Miami to meet Greg's parents in his new RV.

Once Greg, Pam, and Pam’s parents arrive in Miami, they are greeted by Greg's eccentric, fun-loving and free-spirited parents, Bernie Focker, a lawyer-turned-stay-at-home-dad, and Roz, a sex therapist for elderly couples. While Dina bonds with the Fockers, small cracks begin to form between Jack and the Fockers, due to their contrasting personalities and backgrounds. The gathering gets off to a bad start when a chase between the Fockers' dog, Moses, and the Byrneses' cat, Jinx, culminates with Jinx flushing Moses down the RV's toilet, forcing Bernie to destroy it to save Moses. Later, Bernie accidentally injures Jack's back during a game of touch football.

Pam informs Greg that she is pregnant, and the two decide to keep it a secret until they are married. Jack again becomes suspicious of Greg's character when they are introduced to the Fockers' former housekeeper, Isabel Villalobos. Bernie reveals that Greg lost his virginity to Isabel 15 years earlier. Isabel's 15-year-old son Jorge, who has never met his father and bears a striking resemblance to Greg, catches the attention of Jack after he repairs the toilet in the RV. Meanwhile, Roz, Bernie and Dina learn Pam is pregnant, but promise not to tell Jack.

Greg is left alone to babysit Little Jack, whom Jack has been raising via the Ferber method. Despite Jack's strict instructions to leave Little Jack to self-soothe, Greg is unable to stand listening to Little Jack's cries and attempts to cheer him up by hugging him and acting humorously, but inadvertently teaches him the word "asshole". Greg answers a brief phone call from Roz, and Little Jack is let out of the playpen by Jinx and he glues his hands to a bottle of rum, while saying asshole repeatedly, leading to an argument between Jack and the Fockers over each other's parenting methods.

Jack resumes his spying on Greg and sends Greg and Jorge's hair samples for a DNA test, while inviting Jorge to Greg and Pam's engagement party in hopes of getting Greg to admit he is Jorge's father. At the engagement party, Jack, who assumes that Greg knows about Jorge and has deliberately been keeping him a secret from Pam, introduces him to Jorge. Later, when Greg denies knowing anything about Jorge, Jack still refuses to believe him and drugs him with a shot of truth serum. While giving a toast, Greg uncontrollably blurts out that Pam is pregnant and that Jorge is his son before losing consciousness.

The next morning, Pam questions Greg about Jorge, and Greg promises that he knew nothing about him before the previous evening. Pam believes him and is willing to work things out with him. Jack has reached his breaking point and demands that Pam and Dina leave with him. Dina refuses and reveals that Jack had drugged Greg. Everyone turns against Jack and informs him that they were all aware of Pam's pregnancy but didn't tell him due to his paranoia and inability to trust people. Shocked and hurt, Jack leaves with his grandson.

Bernie and Greg pursue Jack but are tasered and arrested by incompetent Officer Vern LeFlore for speeding and refusing to remain in Bernie’s car when pulled over. Meanwhile, Jack receives the results of the DNA test that determines Jorge's father is really a baseball player who also resembles Greg, leading to Little Jack calling him an "asshole", to which Jack agrees. When Jack sees Bernie and Greg being pulled over, he attempts to defend them, but LeFlore tasers and arrests him as well. In their cell, Greg, Jack, and Bernie are released by Judge Ira, a client of Roz. Before they leave, Greg asks that Jack and Bernie stop their feud. Jack admits that he made a mistake regarding Jorge and explains his past career in the CIA to Bernie before apologizing for his actions.

Greg and Pam are married that weekend by Pam's former fiancé, Kevin, who is now an ordained interfaith minister. At the conclusion, Jack reviews the tape to find out why the Ferber method failed. It turned out that Little Jack was comforted by Roz each time he cried, who took care of him and let him nap, proving the Ferber method failed. Bernie was seen feeding him chocolates and angering Jack. The climax ends with Greg playing with Little Jack and calling out Jack, which makes Little Jack laugh as he turns off the TV.

####Meet the Parents####
Greg Focker, a nurse living in Chicago, intends to propose to his girlfriend, Pam Byrnes, but his plan is disrupted when they are invited to the wedding of Pam's sister, Debbie, at their parents' house on Long Island. Greg decides to impress Pam's parents first, and propose to her in front of her family, but this plan is put on hold when the airline company loses his luggage which contains the engagement ring.

At the Byrnes's house, Greg meets Pam's father Jack, her mother Dina, and their beloved cat Jinx. Despite maintaining a friendly demeanor towards Greg, Jack is immediately suspicious of him and is critical for his choice of career as a male nurse and anything else he sees as a difference between Greg and the Byrnes family. Greg attempts to impress Jack, with little success, and he becomes even more uncomfortable after he receives an impromptu lie detector test from Jack and later learns from Pam that Jack is a retired CIA operative who interrogated double agents.

Meeting the rest of Pam's family and friends, Greg still feels like an outsider. Despite efforts to impress her family, his inadvertent actions make him an easy target for ridicule. Greg unintentionally gives Debbie a broken nose and a black eye during a pool volleyball game, uses a malfunctioning toilet which floods the backyard with sewage, spills Jack's mother's ashes while opening a champagne bottle, and sets the wedding altar on fire. Several misunderstandings cause Jack to believe Greg is a marijuana user after Pam's weed-using brother, Denny, implicitly frames him. Later, Greg loses Jinx and replaces him with a stray, whose tail he spray-paints and who makes a mess of the house, including destroying Debbie's wedding dress (though the real Jinx is later found). By now, the entire Byrnes family, including Pam, agrees that Greg should leave Long Island, while Jack accuses Greg of lying about being a nurse and taking the Medical College Admission Test because his CIA contacts could not find any record of a "Gregory" Focker. Desperate to save himself, Greg reveals he has seen Jack engaging in some secret activity with some shady characters, and that Jack is planning a covert mission after the wedding, only for Jack to angrily reveal that the mission was a surprise honeymoon for Debbie and her fiancé Bob.

Greg's missing luggage arrives, revealing his real first name as Gaylord, much to the amusement of the Byrnes family. Greg drives angrily and sadly to the airport preparing to return to Chicago but is detained by airport security for insisting that his luggage stays with him rather than be checked. Back at the Byrnes's house, Jack learns from a disappointed Pam that he could find no record of Greg from the CIA because his real name is Gaylord, and is presented with copies of Greg's transcripts his parents faxed her, proving that Greg passed the Medical College Admission Test. Despite this, Jack still states his belief that Greg is an unsuitable husband for Pam because of his mistakes and lies, but Dina lectures him over his consistent picking apart of any man Pam brings home (and that he didn't even like Pam's previous fiancé, Kevin, until after they broke up).

After hearing Pam make a heartfelt phone call to Greg to apologize for not sticking up for him earlier, Jack realizes that Pam truly loves Greg. He rushes to the airport, convinces airport security to release Greg, and brings him back to the Byrnes's house. Jack performs a lie detector test on Greg to tell the truth about the weekend and loving Pam, leading Jack to propose to Greg to be his son-in-law. As Greg proposes to Pam, Jack and Dina listen in from another room, agreeing that they should now meet Greg's parents despite their worries about doing so. After Debbie's wedding, Jack views footage of Greg recorded by hidden cameras that he had placed strategically around the house, in which Greg calls Jack a "psycho" and mocks him, and also exposes Denny as the true marijuana user.

####My Big Fat Greek Wedding####
Thirty-year-old Fotoula "Toula" Portokalos is a member of a large, loud, intrusive Greek family that only wants her to get married and have children. Frumpy and meek, she works in her family's Chicago restaurant, "Dancing Zorba's", but longs to do something more with her life. While working one day, she is immediately smitten with Ian Miller, a handsome school teacher. She amuses Ian when he catches her staring at him and jokingly calls herself his "own private Greek statue". That evening, Toula offers to go to college to learn about computers so she can improve the restaurant, but her father, Gus, becomes emotional, claiming Toula wants to leave him. Her mother, Maria, comforts Toula and convinces Gus to agree to Toula's idea.

As the weeks pass, Toula gains more confidence and changes her image, switching her thick-framed glasses for contact lenses, styling her hair, and wearing makeup and brighter clothes that show off her figure. She sees a notice for a course on computers and tourism and tells her Aunt Voula, who owns a travel agency, that she could apply what she learns in the course to Voula's business. Voula agrees, and she and Maria slyly convince Gus to agree as well.

Toula's happiness working at the travel agency catches Ian's attention and he asks her to dinner. Knowing her family would not approve of her dating a non-Greek, Toula lies that she is taking a pottery class to see Ian.  Ian eventually realizes Toula is the waitress from Dancing Zorba's; contrary to Toula's fear that he would lose interest in her, Ian reaffirms his fondness for her. They continue dating and fall in love.

Toula's lie is ultimately exposed. Gus is furious that Ian did not ask his permission to date Toula, even though they are grown adults. Gus refuses to let them continue seeing each other, but they ignore his decree, so Gus introduces Toula to single friends of his own, to no avail.

Ian proposes marriage and Toula accepts.  Maria tells Gus that he must accept their marriage, but Gus remains upset because Ian is not a member of the Greek Orthodox Church. To get the family to accept him, Ian agrees to be baptized into the church. The Portokalos family does finally accept him but constantly inserts themselves into the wedding planning, designing ugly bridesmaid's dresses and misspelling Ian's mother's name on their wedding invitations.

Ian's quiet, conservative parents meet the entire family during a loud and extravagant Greek family dinner and are overwhelmed by the experience, frustrating Gus. Toula worries about whether her father has accepted Ian. Maria explains that, growing up, her family experienced many hardships, and that she and Gus simply want her to be happy. Toula's grandmother shows Toula photos of herself as a young woman and the crown she wore at her wedding, which Toula puts on. When the three women all look at Toula in her bedroom mirror, the sight of three generations in the reflection makes Toula smile with pride. The wedding proceeds as planned.

At the wedding reception, Gus gives a heartfelt speech focusing on how the differences in the newlyweds' backgrounds do not matter. He and Maria then surprise Toula and Ian with a house as a wedding gift; Toula is speechless at the gesture of love from her father. As the two families dance together, Toula narrates that while her family is indeed loud, odd, and somewhat dramatic, she knows they love her and will always be there for her.

Six years later, Toula and Ian leave their house—conveniently located right next door to Gus and Maria's—to walk their daughter to Greek school.

####Over the Brooklyn Bridge####
Alby Sherman is a Jewish man whose father died when he was young. He and his mother run a luncheonette in Brooklyn, but Alby has negotiated the purchase of an upscale restaurant in Manhattan, a project he cannot finance on his own. He asks his wealthy Uncle Benjamin to lend him the money. His uncle imposes only one requirement: he will lend Alby the money, but only if he leaves his "shiksa" (gentile) girlfriend.

####Oy Vey! My Son Is Gay!!####
Twenty-five year old real estate agent Nelson Hirsch is having problems telling his overbearing Jewish parents—Martin and Shirley Hirsch—that he is gay, let alone in a loving relationship, not only with a man, Angelo Ferraro, but a non-Jewish one. However, he and Angelo have made a time sensitive pact to tell their respective parents about their relationship. It becomes even more complicated as, out of circumstance, Nelson discovers that his mother—and thus by association his father—believe the new significant other in his life is not Angelo, who they assume is solely his decorator, but rather Nelson and Angelo's neighbor, Playpen Playmate of the month, Sybil Williams. That complication is exacerbated by the fact that his mom will only hear and see what she wants to, which in this situation is coming to terms with Nelson being in love with a shiksa who takes her clothes off in public.

When Nelson is finally able to tell his parents the truth, Martin and Shirley (who have their own slightly different preconceived notions about homosexuality), have to find a way to come to terms with it. The couple are concerned about how their friends and relatives will react; they are especially concerned about Martin's macho employer, his Uncle Moisha, and Shirley's brother and sister-in-law, Max and Sophie.

Equally as difficult is relating to Angelo's Italian parents, Carmine and Terry Ferraro, who have their own issues in dealing with Angelo and Nelson's relationship. Nelson and Angelo's time-sensitive issue advances their relationship to the next level, with the potential to turn the world of this collective group further on its head.

####The Princess and the Marine####
Meriam Al Khalifa (Marisol Nichols) is a Bahraini royal who is not content to be in an arranged marriage, even though her strict Muslim parents would never allow a union with a non-Muslim. In the movie, Meriam is allowed to go to the local mall and watch and listen to American pop culture.

One day, she desperately makes some random calls to strangers, including a Marine stationed at the U.S. embassy named Jason Johnson (Mark-Paul Gosselaar). After meeting, the two become friends and later fall in love, but Meriam doesn't tell anyone because of her parents. After being caught kissing at the Tree of Life, her mother forbids any more contact between the two. Meriam and Jason exchange letters with the help of a jeweler in the mall, and plan to run away to America with a fake passport for Meriam and pass her off as a fellow Marine.

Once in America, Meriam is taken in by the local authorities for being an illegal immigrant and is separated from Jason. Meriam is released after asking for asylum, saying she'd be disowned or even killed if she returned to Bahrain. Meriam and Jason marry in Las Vegas, and he is stripped of his insignia and rank to Private in the Marines.

The film concludes with Meriam and Jason stationed at a base, looking outside at an American flag, while a Marine holding a copy of the Quran salutes. It is then that Meriam tells Jason that this is what she believes in (America - freedom).

####Sahara####
In 1928, Gordon (Steve Forrest) develops a new racing vehicle, a hot rod, but dies in a practice run before he can compete in the 'Trans-African Auto Race'. To save her father's dream, and win the prize money, Gordon's flapper daughter, Dale (Brooke Shields) disguises herself as a man and takes the place of her father in the race through the Sahara Desert, with the help of her father's friends.

Dale is an excellent driver and has a good chance to win the male-only race. After she crosses the start line, she takes off her wig and mustache and reveals her true sex to the other participants in the race. While taking a short-cut, she comes close to a tribal war between Bedouin factions. Another racer, the German Von Glessing (Horst Buchholz), also takes the same short-cut in order to supply weapons to the evil leader of the two warring tribes.

Dale and her crew are captured by Rasoul (John Rhys-Davies), the uncle of the good leader of the warring tribes. The good leader, Sheikh Jaffar (Lambert Wilson), had seen Dale from afar and desired her, so he rescues her from his uncle by claiming Dale as his bride. Dale marries Jaffar and escapes the next morning in her car to attempt to finish the race. She is captured by the evil leader before she can complete the race, but a stowaway gypsy child runs back to Jaffar to tell him of Dale's capture. Meanwhile, Dale is thrown into a pit of leopards. Jaffar rallies his men, rescues her and allows her to return to drive in the race. Dale wins the race, and when celebrating sees Jaffar's horse nearby. She bids farewell to her crew, mounts the horse, and returns to Jaffar.

####The Way We Were####
The story is partially told in flashback. Katie Morosky and Hubbell Gardiner are immensely different; Katie is a staunch Marxist Jew with strong anti-war opinions, while Hubbell is a carefree WASP with no particular political bent. While attending college in 1937, Katie is attracted to Hubbell's good looks and admires his natural writing skill, which he easily excels at. Hubbell is intrigued by Katie's ability to persuade others into supporting various social causes. Hubbell's snobbish college friends mock Katie and her passionate political stances. Neither Katie or Hubbell act upon upon their mutual attraction, and they lose touch after graduation.

The two meet again towards the end of World War II. Katie works at a radio station, and Hubbell, having served as a naval officer in the South Pacific, is readjusting to civilian life. They fall in love, despite their differences. When President Franklin D. Roosevelt dies, Katie is vocally incensed when Hubbell's friends make disparaging jokes. She fails to understand Hubbell's indifference towards their insensitivity and dismissive political engagement. Hubbell is disturbed by Katie's tactlessness and polarizing postures. Hubbell ends their relationship, but they eventually reconcile.

When Hubbell receives an offer to adapt his novel into a screenplay, Katie believes his talent will be wasted in Hollywood. Despite her frustration, they move to California where he becomes a successful screenwriter and the couple enjoy an affluent lifestyle. As the Hollywood blacklist grows and McCarthyism encroaches on their lives, Katie's political activism resurfaces, jeopardizing Hubbell's position and reputation. Eventually, Katie and other Hollywood liberals confront the government over their suppression of personal privacy and free speech.

Katie's involvement strains the marriage, and Hubbell becomes alienated by Katie's persistent political combativeness. Although Katie is now pregnant, Hubbell has a brief liaison with Carol Ann, his college girlfriend. After their daughter's birth, Katie and Hubbell divorce. Katie realizes Hubbell is not the man she idealized and that he will always choose the easiest path. Hubbell is emotionally exhausted and unable to live up to Katie's unrealistic expectations of him.

Years later, Katie and Hubbell meet by chance in front of the Plaza Hotel in New York City where activist Katie is demonstrating to "Ban the Bomb." Hubbell, accompanied by a stylishly beautiful woman, now writes for a television show. After a brief, friendly reunion, they part ways, but Hubbell crosses the street to where she is protesting. He asks about their daughter, Rachel, and whether Katie's new husband is a good father to her. After a more tender and bittersweet goodbye, Hubbell goes to the waiting taxi.

Katie's and Hubbell's relationship is far behind them, and, besides their daughter, the only thing they share is the memory of the way they were.

####West Bank Story####
The film begins with a scene in which the Palestinians and Jews are both snapping their fingers, similar to the opening scene of "West Side Story". The two parties head to their own family-owned falafel stands (Hummus Hut and Kosher King) where they sing "Our People Must Be Fed/Our People Must Be Served". During the day, Hummus Hut employee Fatima and Israeli soldier David are daydreaming about each other (in the romantic duet, "When I See Him"). When Fatima rushes to give a customer his forgotten leftovers, she has a chance encounter with David, and they realize their mutual attraction.

Upon returning to the shop, Fatima's brother shows her that the Kosher King Jews have a machine that encroaches a few inches onto their property. The head of Hummus Hut throws a rock into the machine, making it malfunction, provoking a standoff between the two families (resolved by David and Fatima). Ariel, head of the Kosher King, decides he is going to build a wall. After they leave, David and Fatima stay, and David indicates he'll come to her balcony that night.

The construction begins, and the Palestinians plan to end it abruptly ("We're Gonna Build It"). As such happens, David goes to Fatima's house ("This Moment Is All We Have"), wanting to kiss her, but Fatima refuses, saying it will only escalate the conflict. They head over to stop the fight. As they do, it is revealed to Fatima's family that they are in love. The following fight tips over a canister of gasoline, causing the entire stand to catch fire. David goes to warn the Israelis, who celebrate - until an ember reaches the Kosher King, which proceeds to catch on fire. As the Hummus Hut denizens celebrate, Fatima points out to everyone that they are only making their lives worse.

The next morning, expectant falafel customers are oblivious to the fire, and still want food. Ahmed and Ariel have nothing, but David and Fatima scrape together some of the remaining food, merging the two falafel stands. After the others are working, David and Fatima kiss. At the very end, Fatima asks what will happen if their families cannot stop fighting. David says he will "take you to a place called... Beverly Hills", alluding to the song "Somewhere" in "West Side Story".

####You Don't Mess with the Zohan####
Zohan Dvir is a promiscuous, superhuman Israeli counter-terrorist of the Israel Defense Forces. Despite his success and popularity, he has grown tired of the everlasting conflicts in his country and dreams of becoming a hairstylist at Paul Mitchell's in the United States. He finally admits to his parents his desire to cut hair, but they make fun of him.

During his next mission against a Palestinian terrorist group led by his arch-enemy superhuman Fatoush "Phantom" Hakbarah, Zohan fakes his own death and smuggles himself onto a plane to New York City, cuts his hair, and adopts the alias "Scrappy Coco" after two dogs (Scrappy and Coco) whom he shared the flight with. Following his "success" at killing Zohan, Phantom opens a restaurant chain called Phantom Muchentuchen.

After his arrival in the United States, Zohan immediately goes to Paul Mitchell's salon to ask for a job where the stylists laugh at him. He tries other salons, but is also refused due to his lack of experience. Zohan befriends a Jewish man named Michael after defending him against a bullying motorist and is taken in by him and his mother Gail. Zohan and Gail have sex, much to Michael's disapproval.

Zohan then meets a fellow Israeli immigrant named Oori at a disco. Oori recognizes Zohan but vows to keep his identity a secret and brings him to an area in lower Manhattan populated by other Middle Eastern immigrants, including Palestinian and Israeli Americans. Zohan attempts to secure a job with the struggling salon of a Palestinian woman named Dalia, but she only allows Zohan to sweep the floors. When a stylist named Nadira unexpectedly quits, one of the customers asks Zohan to cut her hair. Zohan proceeds to give her a sexually charged but exceptional haircut and has sex with her in the bathroom. Zohan's reputation spreads rapidly among the elderly women of lower Manhattan, causing Dalia's business to prosper which upsets Grant Walbridge, a corporate businessman who has been trying to buy out all the local tenants on the block so that he can build a massive mall with a roller coaster in it.

Zohan is eventually identified by a Palestinian taxi driver named Salim who bears a grudge against Zohan for having taken his beloved goat away in Palestine because Salim spat on him. Salim convinces his friends Hamdi and Nasi to help him kill Zohan. After several failed attempts, they are forced to contact Phantom and convince him to visit New York to find Zohan.

Meanwhile, Zohan has fallen in love with Dalia and comes clean to her, Michael, and Gail about his true identity. After Dalia rejects Zohan for his counter-terrorist background, Zohan decides to leave to protect her and confronts Phantom in a championship Hacky Sack game sponsored by Walbridge. Zohan's fight is cut short with sudden news of the Middle Eastern neighborhood being attacked and he quickly departs.

As their businesses burn, Zohan calms the Israelis and Palestinians who each blame the other for the violence and makes peace with Salim. Phantom then appears and confronts Zohan, but Zohan refuses to fight. Dalia appears where she reveals that she is Phantom's sister, and convinces her brother to cooperate with Zohan against the arsonists, revealed to be racist white supremacists led by James T. O'Scanlon. They were hired by Walbridge to instigate an inter-ethnic riot so he can get his new mall in the aftermath. As Zohan and Phantom work to save the block, Phantom admits that he always wanted to be a shoe salesman rather than a terrorist. Although the racist arsonists are defeated and Walbridge is arrested by the police, the overexcited Phantom accidentally destroys all of the shops on the block with his powerful screams.

With the Israelis and Palestinians united, the block is rebuilt and transformed into a collectively-owned mall. Phantom opens a shoe shop there, Oori relocates his electronics shop to the mall, Salim gets back his goat from Zohan and starts a goat ride business, and Michael becomes a hairdresser. Zohan and Dalia, having now married, open a beauty salon together. Zohan's parents arrive and approve of his new job and lifestyle before his father requests that he cut his hair, which Zohan happily does.

####The Cohens and Kellys####
As articulated in the "Nichols" case,

Blockquote|"The Cohens and The "[sic]" Kellys" presents two families, Jewish and Irish, living side by side in the poorer quarters of New York in a state of perpetual enmity.  The wives in both cases are still living, and share in the mutual animosity, as do two small sons, and even the respective dogs.  The Jews have a daughter, the Irish a son; the Jewish father is in the clothing business; the Irishman is a policeman.  The children are in love with each other, and secretly marry, apparently after the play opens.  The Jew, being in great financial straits, learns from a lawyer that he has fallen heir to a large fortune from a great-aunt, and moves into a great house, fitted luxuriously.  Here he and his family live in vulgar ostentation, and here the Irish boy seeks out his Jewish bride, and is chased away by the angry father.  The Jew then abuses the Irishman over the telephone, and both become hysterically excited.  The extremity of his feelings makes the Jew sick, so that he must go to Florida for a rest, just before which the daughter discloses her marriage to her mother.

On his return, the Jew finds that his daughter has borne a child; at first he suspects the lawyer, but eventually learns the truth and is overcome with anger at such a low alliance.  Meanwhile, the Irish family who have been forbidden to see the grandchild, go to the Jew's house, and after a violent scene between the two fathers in which the Jew disowns his daughter, who decides to go back with her husband, the Irishman takes her back with her baby to his own poor lodgings.   The lawyer, who had hoped to marry the Jew's daughter, seeing his plan foiled, tells the Jew that his fortune really belongs to the Irishman, who was also related to the dead woman, but offers to conceal his knowledge, if the Jew will share the loot.  This the Jew repudiates, and, leaving the astonished lawyer, walks through the rain to his enemy's house to surrender the property.  He arrives in great dejection, tells the truth, and abjectly turns to leave.  A reconciliation ensues, the Irishman agreeing to share with him equally.  The Jew shows some interest in his grandchild, though this is at most a minor motive in the reconciliation, and the curtain falls while the two are in their cups, the Jew insisting that in the firm name for the business, which they are to carry on jointly, his name shall stand first.

The characters were similar to those in the Nichols play, "Abie's Irish Rose" which was made into a film in 1928 and in 1946.

####The Cohens and Kellys in Trouble####
Kelly's daughter falls for a revenue agent, and his divorced wife is after alimony.

####The Crow: Salvation####
In Salt Lake City, Alexander "Alex" Frederick Corvis is framed for the murder of his girlfriend, Lauren Randall, and sentenced to death. Three years later he is executed in the electric chair, suffering a painful death due to lightning overloading the energy of the chair.

The Crow that was mysteriously resurrected after the events of City of Angels, also resurrects Alex and gives him supernatural abilities that would allow him to avenge Lauren´s death. Alex follows the crow and finds evidence that Lauren was killed by a group of corrupt cops, including one that has a scar on his arm that match the one he saw just before his execution. Later he encounters Erin, Lauren´s sister, who believes that he is guilty but Alex tells her that he will prove his innocence.

Later, Alex finds a witness in the trial who was bribed to give perjured testimony and forces him to confess that four members of the police force killed Lauren. Unbeknownst to him, there were actually five: Detective Madden, Martin Toomey, Vincent Erlich, Stan Roberts and Phillip Dutton.

Alex begins his road to vengeance killing Dutton while saving two young girls from being raped by him. He then provokes Erlich to die in a car crash but drops the list of the cops he is after, later being found by Roberts and Toomey. With evidence found in Erlich´s car, Alex and Erin find out that Nathan Randall, Erin and Lauren's father, is in business with the corrupt cops and is indirectly responsible for her death when Lauren uncovered the truth. Erin runs in horror from Nathan when she is confronted with the truth.

Erin confesses to Alex that she felt guilty for Lauren´s murder because she told the cops where they could find her, thinking that they would only arrest Alex. With his powers, Alex shows Erin that Lauren fought off her attackers and that Erin should forgive herself. When she returns home she finds her father has killed himself out of remorse. Later, Alex finds out from his lawyer, Peter Walsh, that one of Nathan's businesses was revealed to be a front for a drug smuggling operation and Lauren had witnessed Roberts killing a man in the Key Club, leading to her death.

Book and Madden kill Walsh and kidnap Erin. Alex starts a shootout at the Key Club. He impales Roberts (with a pipe he breaks off the ceiling) and kills the remaining police. Madden shows up and tries to kill Alex, but his shot accidentally shoots a broken gas pipe. The explosion kills Toomey. Alex walks out of the fire and sees an arm hanging out of the rubble with the zig-zag scar on it, and The Crow leaves Alex after he feels he "fulfilled his duty".

From a clue left by Walsh, Alex deduces that the 'King' is still alive. He heads to the police station to kill Book but, without his powers, he is stabbed by Book and dies from his wounds. In agony, Alex begins to believe he caused Lauren´s death, accepting his demise. Book brings Alex's body to a room where Erin is tied with her mouth stitched shut and the body of Walsh is shown hanging and missing an arm. Erin manages to drop Lauren´s locket and the Crow drops it next to Alex, being a promise of love and truth. It revives Alex, allowing him to set Erin Free and kill both Madden and the secretary while Book runs after Erin. Alex catches up with them and exposes Book´s arm, showing the actual zig-zag scar Alex saw during the attack the night of Lauren's murder therefore revealing Book as the corrrupt cop/crime boss who ultimately ordered the murders of Lauren, the guy Lauren witnessed get murdered, and also of Alex himself; ordering him to be framed for murder by the cops on his payroll.

Alex and Erin take Book to the electric chair and electricute him to the point to cremation in the chair. Alex´s soul is finally released to reunite with Lauren and Erin keeps Lauren´s necklace with her.

